these techniques are also unacceptable around occupied buildings due to the disturbance and nuisance they cause to people fine, standard large mesh plastic nets are used to exclude pigeons from areas of a building.
although the risk of infection from pigeons may be relatively low, the diseases are severe and may be life threatening health and safety problems are also caused by the build up of faeces due to the slippery and unsafe footing it provides on walkways and ledges endearing proper maintenance.
when newly hatched, the young are very immature, being blind and without feathers.
when the flies wake in response to warmer conditions, they can cause considerable annoyance, and by falling into unprotected tanks they can foul the water supply.
the most common problems are caused not but the plants themselves, but by dead leaves and other matter building up in rain and other drainage channels.
in large areas and in exposed locations the net should be  reinforced with stainless steel wire sprung wires stainless steel wire may be mounted on thin stainless steel brackets via  short springs of the same material.
while plants can damage buildings, or more often, exacerbate the effects of building defects or poor maintenance, they can also protect.
dense vegetation may impede this  evaporation, causing dampness in the walls root damage and climbing plants inevitably, the roots of climbing plants will be close to the building,  where they may damage masonry and foundations.
the flight holes are  ragged and irregular and are inclined at 45 degrees to the surface of the wood.
the larvae makes a case of silk (and any available cloth fibre) which it drags with it as it moves around.
for example, nets or  spikes may trap rubbish, fixing points may allow water ingress or accelerated  erosion of surfaces, and most products will restrict access by maintenance  personnel blocking up of internal cavities, for example roof spaces, without due  regard to the provision of suitable ventilation, may result in condensation and  damp related decay problems damage control measures it is often cost effective to take steps to limit the damaging effects of  pigeon activity and this can often be easier than controlling the pigeons  themselves.
infestation indicated by perfectly circular flight holes and by circular bun  shaped pellets of wood dust.
although in these cases it is not necessary to inform the local authority of one's intention to fell or lop a tree, it is usually advisable to do so.
eliminate from around buildings all undergrowth and debris, which can provide protective cover refuse management keep all refuse, especially food matter and material suitable for nesting, in secure, rodent-proof containers.
however, where a large population of rats is  gradually killed off, repeated scavenging of the carcases may result in an  animal receiving the lethal repeat dose acute poisons the most frequently used acute poison is fluoroacetamide, sold under the  trade names 'fluorakil' and 'compound 1081', usually as cereal bait.
habitat individuals range over half a kilometre outdoors, and often  along established runs indoors burrow approximately one metre underground or  inhabit lower levels of buildings good climbers and swimmers, and can jump  heights to 80cm and gaps to 1.5m black rat, rattus rattus black rat, rattus rattus (roof or ship rat) total length 42cm weight up to  300 grams colour black or brownish-grey with a lighter belly nose pointed ears  thin and large tail slender, longer than head and body reproduction sexually  mature in 12 to 16 weeks capable of a litter every 3.5 to 4 weeks fewer young  per year than r. norvegicus females have 10 mammae food omnivorous droppings  tear-drop shaped average 12mm long range ports and coastal areas habitat  individuals usually range within 100 metres prefer upper levels of buildings  good climbers and swimmers, and can jump 1.5m house mouse, mus musculus house mouse, mus musculus total length 17.5 (body, 8.5 cm tail, 9cm)
any temporary ponding may be used for breeding; bottles, cans, gutters, rainwater butts, old tyres etc.
to this end hopperheads and secret gutters draining the roof  surfaces should be cleared of all pigeon detritus.
this is the most important measure in any pest control strategy.
this may also be a particular problem during building works  and renovation pigeon faeces represent a health and safety hazard for employees who have  to remove them or work in their vicinity.
except in rapidly expanding populations (where white and black individuals are  common), the brown rat is almost universally brown, with a paler underside.
for  present purposes, however we shall use the word for small herbaceous plants  growing in a building environs.
this species was domesticated by the ancient egyptians and has spread all over the world in many different domestic strains.
they are often spread as a result of faecal contamination or contaminated water supply.
the fact that damp problems go unnoticed, and hence uncorrected, is arguably the most serious of the potential problems caused by creeper growth on buildings plant growth involves the transport of substantial quantities of water up from the roots to the leaves, where the water evaporates.
this investigation should define the extent of the problem.
they can be blamed for subsidence and heave, they can block drains and gutters with their leaves and occasionally as a result of root penetration, and they can attract the attentions of officialdom in the form of tree preservation orders.
contact poisons, poison baiting, and fumigation result in animals dying in  inaccessible locations where their corpses will putrefy and attract insect  pests.
poisoning of birds is illegal in the uk pigeons may be caught in live traps after a short period of baiting.
mosses and lichens, and the build up of  soil around them, can provide areas in which seeds of destructive building  weeds such as buddleia can germinate, and having germinated, cause serious  damage to building facbric fungi and bacteria older classifications place fungi and bacteria in the plant kingdom, but  they are now generally regarded as two separate kindoms, separate from both  plants and animals.
while it may be true that a dense covering of leaves may repel light rain, it has been argued that the net effect of vegetation is to make the external walls of a building damper.
under the 1981 wildlife and countryside act, this is the responsibility of english nature (formerly the nature conservancy council), if it considers that the land is of special interest because of its flora, fauna, geological or physiographical features.
they are thus a special problem in the renovation of buildings where large accumulations have been allowed to build up.
during the second world war reduction of food availability dramatically reduced the numbers of pigeons despite the increase in suitable nesting and roosting sites poisons can provide an effective control especially those producing a period of deranged behaviour.
the black, bee-like eristalis tenax, lays its eggs in stagnant  water containing rotting animal or vegetable matter, eg in drains, gutters and  sewage disposal pits.
control  is therefore unlikely to be achieved by the application of a single product or  technique.
however, such subsequentrelease is not permitted for introduced species such as the grey squirrel.
this can have legal and planning implications.
it is also particularly well adapted for living on pigs, and can occur in great abundance in pig sties the human flea can transmit the plague bacterium, pasteurella pestis , between individual humans, but it is not responsible for the major outbreaks cosmopolitan, parasitises cats, rabbits and man as well as dogs.
caulk gaps between sheet metal guards and wires to prevent mice crawling through poisoning and trapping are most effective when combined with suitable exclusion measures.
they puncture the skin and drink up to four times their own volume of blood.
in most cases, exclusion and environmental control are preferred methods of dealing with the problem.
when alarmed they emit a noxious odour, which combined with the smell of an unhygienic bedroom is particularly nauseating.
fixing should be by stainless steel pins and wires.
the front paws of rodents leave tracks showing four toes, the rear paw tracks are elongated and have five toes, and the tails leave short lines as marks burrows or holes burrows in the earth around buildings, or holes in the building foundations of 100mm in diameter that were made or enlarged by rodents.
control of mosquitoes there are three approaches to mosquito control; removal of breeding sites,  destruction of larvae, destruction of adults, and deterring the insects from  biting.
bedbugs are not known to spread disease, but a minority of people are very sensitive to their bites bat bugs, poultry bugs and swallow bugs may be introduced into buildings as a result of the roosting or nesting activity of their hosts.
the bodies of the animals remain in inaccesible locations, where their decay is likely to cause health problems.
they can create much noise and  disturbance, can introduce parasites and may bite fiercely if cornered.
woodpeckers cause occasional damage to the exterior woodwork of buildings.
further problems might be expected if the pigeons are allowed to occupy scaffolding to be erected around a building the presence of feral pigeons and most especially their faeces represents a potential health hazard to employees and to the general public.
these flocks develop a  set pattern of activity, based around a defined set of feeding, resting and  roosting sites.
preferred nesting sites are dark enclosed areas simulating a cave or a crevice [3].
when the flies  wake in response to warmer conditions, they can cause considerable annoyance,  and by falling into unprotected tanks they can foul the water supply.
such rootstocks are difficult to remove by mechanical  means.
the animals are said to feel no discomfort and hence  are not usually warned off the baits.
at best, these insects are a serious nuisance, and several species are vectors for a number of diseases with climatic warming, increasing frequency of overseas travel, and decreasing effectiveness of both anti-malarial drugs and insecticides, the importance of eliminating breeding sites for mosquitoes cannot be over-stressed.
the leaves and stems of evergreen creepers such as ivy can burn fiercely, and enable a fire to be carried on the outside of a building to areas that might otherwise be unaffected by the fire.
exclusion of mammalian pests most authorities stress that prevention by exclusion is the most effective  long-term solution to a mammalian pest problem.
for example the availability of safe nest sites may be the critical factor attracting activity around a particular building.
brownish to pitch black in colour it is 3 to 5mm long.
such 'one off' measures applying a single technique with  no reference to other factors are often doomed to failure.
for example, nets or spikes may trap rubbish, fixing points may allow water ingress or accelerated erosion of surfaces, and most products will restrict access by maintenance personnel blocking up of internal cavities, for example roof spaces, without due regard to the provision of suitable ventilation, may result in condensation and damp related decay problems it is often cost effective to take steps to limit the damaging effects of pigeon activity and this can often be easier than controlling the pigeons themselves.
the chemical is a colourless, crystalline solid, very soluble in  water, and odourless and tasteless.
plant growth, whether deliberate or accidental, can in some circumstances protect buildings, and in other circumstances damage them the presence of plants can reduce the rate of drying, block ventilation holes, further the accumulation of debris, lead to the raising of external ground levels, and provide protection and cover for animal pests of all types.
creepers may  also be blown off in a storm, causing damage in their fall, or bringing with  them items such as gutters or downpipes damage to surfaces.
furs, skins, insect collections, seeds, dried fruit, carpets, herbs, clothing, leather and bookbindings can all be destroyed in a remarkably short period of times.
three broods may be produced by a pair each breeding season and individuals may live as long as thirty years
in buildings the problem often  arises from roosting rather than feeding behaviour.
this alarms other birds in the flock and they will avoid the location in the future.
they may occasionally enter buildings in the autumn or winter.
unfortunately they have proved generally ineffective for this species  due to its great adaptability and learning powers.
see timber decay document.
the  adults rest with their abdomens parallel to the wall and the larvae hang down  from the water surface.
unable to survive above 28 degrees celcius, it remains active down to 2 degrees.
after recommendations are made to the  local planning authority and the secretary of state, the site is given special  protection against any activity that could harm or destroy the item of  interest.
domesticated carnivores such as mink, ferrets or cats will kill individual birds.
they puncture the skin and drink  up to four times their own volume of blood.
since about 1940, gulls have increasingly taken to occupying buildings for both nesting and perching.
in all activities that do not involve reproduction, the pigeon is a social  bird which will actively seek the company of others in order to rest, preen,  and feed.
natural history bedbugs in the daytime hide in cracks in buildings and furniture and emerge  at night time to find a human or animal host.
shooting shooting using an air gun or .22 garden gun may not significantly affect  pigeon population.
the proportion of  sick and out of condition birds in the population and the general condition of  the birds should be determined.
predators food supplies rather than predators are the main determinants of pigeon  numbers.
the flight holes are ragged and irregular and are inclined at 45 degrees to the surface of the wood.
birds and buildings birds, on account of their being able to gain access at all levels of a  building, and on account of their propensity to carry around nesting material  and other debris can indirectly cause both structural and environmental health  problems in buildings.
the case is 6 to 9mm long and the larva dies if separated from the case mottled black and white, wingspan less than 12mm, only rarely found in dwellings.
ensure that gutters and downpipes are firmly  fixed and adequately sized.
as  a consequence of the large dose which may be ingested, a relatively small  amount of poisoned rodent eaten by a much larger scavenger (eg a dog), can  prove fatal carcases of animals killed by these poisons must be incinerated or securely  buried antidotes to poisons no antidote exists for acute poisons, eg fluoroacetamide.
the birds also cause noise nuisance, particularly in the early morning passer domesticus, the house sparrow, is widely distributed and lives in close association with human activities.
they may be used in large sections to wall off whole areas  or in small strips to prevent pigeon access to individual features.
if carried out regularly at the time birds are settling for  the night it will prevent a roost being established at that location.
woodlice are crustaceans.
this moth is one of the most destructive  of the house moths.
shoots growing into loft spaces may cause further damage in attempting to grow  back towards the light pests.
although the risk  of infection from pigeons may be relatively low, the diseases are severe and  may be life threatening pigeon faeces problems health and safety problems are also caused by the build up of faeces due to  the slippery and unsafe footing it provides on walkways and ledges endearing  proper maintenance.
occasionally, more drastic measures may need to be taken, but legal restrictions should be borne in mind, and also the need to protect the health of the building occupants.
this should include mapping of pigeon numbers and activity around the building through a 24 hour period, assessing critical factors such as feeding sites, roosting sites, nesting sites and loafing areas the factors limiting pigeon population in the area should be assessed.
this necessitates a site investigation and some  analysis site investigation a specialist investigation should be carried out to determine the activity  of the feral pigeons at the building.
note: details of all suspected outbreaks of house longhorn beetle should  be reported to the building research establishment's timber and protection  division, princes risborough, bucks, where records are maintained of all  infestations in britain.
warfarin resistant strains of rats have been reported, so higher dose baits may sometimes be needed.
pest organisms range from spiders to sycamore trees, from feral cats to fungi, and from the greater spotted woodpecker to the more infamous lesser spotted lead nicker.
more seriously, they  block rainwater drainage systems with their faeces, feathers and other  detritus.
apart from the effect on drainage, the nests become particularly insanitary as the chicks hatch.
application  of single techniques is at best inefficient and is often ineffective.
this is most significant in the provision of food, and in giving protection from human predation.
baits impregnated with birth control agents can be used but have limited uses as decreases in reproduction are made up by increased recruitment of birds from other areas.
often it will be necessary to dig out the soil  first trimming.
these flocks develop a set pattern of activity, based around a defined set of feeding, resting and roosting sites.
fleas small wingless insects, yellow to almost black in colour, with a hard  narrow body covered in backward pointing spines.
these are placed a few inches above ledges  at an appropriate height to interfere with landing and take-off by the pigeons.
mice are also highly territorial, and the males constantly patrol their territories.
if this bark is  not completely removed the wood is used in building, oval flight holes are  produced, resembling those of the house longhorn beetle.
lord denning suggested during the case > that a tree be defined as having a main trunk diameter of six or seven inches the penalty for destroying or damaging trees protected by tpos is a fine not exceeding œ2000, or twice the value of the tree destroyed or damaged
the the risk of their spreading should be taken into account in the design of buildings and building services, particularly in areas where they are endemic.
eliminate open stagnant water, or at least prevent aerial access to it.
targets are chosen for their resonant  characteristics rather than their insect content, and include shingles,  cladding, eaves and even aerial masts and downpipes.
there are three main species of gull: larus argentatus, the herring gull,larus fuscus, the lesser black headed gull and rissa tridactyla, the kittiwake
tpos refer to individual trees if the tree dies, or is destroyed, the landowner is under no obligation to replace it.
avoid contact with urine.
tpos prevent the cutting down, topping, lopping, uprooting, and deliberate damage or uprooting of trees without the consent of the local planning authority.
the most important measures to be taken are often general  maintenance and management works.
existing weeds in the ground, if not killed or removed before building  work starts, may damage asphalt, masonry and even concrete in their attempt to  grow out into the light weeds growing in masonry weed growth in masonry indicates chronic water ingress into the masonry,  which has also resulted in deterioration of the mortar.
use field guides to aid this  identification.
after trapping has been effectively carried out, exclusion techniques should be maintained to prevent more pests from entering the building.
the length of time pupating varies, but hatching may be triggered by vibration, for example, that caused by a person walking across the floor of a deserted house flea infestations are not related to building defects, but the nature and contents of buildings and building finishes can affect the ease with which infestations can be eradicated.
the gels can also cause damage or fouling problems themselves and can be very difficult to clean off a building once applied.
this section covers the most common mammalian pests encountered in buildings.
pigeon droppings quickly deface finishes both to  the inside and outside of buildings and are difficult and expensive to remove health and safety issues if measures are not taken to minimise pigeon activity around a building,  their presence will cause significant problems for building management and  maintenance.
its larvae develop in animal dung.
faecal droppings droppings are produced in large numbers and will dry in one or two days.
the black, bee-like eristalis tenax, lays its eggs in stagnant water containing rotting animal or vegetable matter, eg in drains, gutters and sewage disposal pits.
they are also very useful in demonstrating the problems to the property owner or manager.
may cause serious skin inflammation in victims who become sensitised to its saliva.
neither school of thought appears to be supported by actual measurements.
reducing pigeon occupancy in general, methods of reducing pigeon populations available to the owner  of an individual building in an urban area are unlikely to be effective, and  even less likely to be acceptable bird scarers bird scarers may be visual, audio, mechanical or a combination [2].
mainly confined to towns.
dense vegetation may impede this evaporation, causing dampness in the walls inevitably, the roots of climbing plants will be close to the building, where they may damage masonry and foundations.
block off entry points ensure that doors and windows are tight-fitting and latched.
the register has no statutory effect, but local authorities are said to give 'a fair degree' of weight to it sites of special scientific interest may be declared around existing or proposed buildings.
type more than anything determines the degree of nuisance posed by birds
two eggs are usually produced, and hatch within 17 to 22 days.
the larvae, when fully fed, burrow  in soil for up to 50m to find a cool dry place to pupate.
mosquitoes at night are strongly attracted to short wavelength light, green to ultra-violet.
about 1000 species are known  all are in their adult stages are external parasites on mammals and birds, and  feed on their blood.
the most effective vector of plague, this flea is mainly tropical in distribution and is only rarely found in britain.
they are thus a special problem in  the renovation of buildings where large accumulations have been allowed to  build up.
secure all  vents and louvres, and cover openings with 6mm galvanized wire mesh.
unless reinforced by actual  pigeon deaths, they soon learn to ignore alarming sights and sounds.
while the individual householder may have little  control over land use over the surronding area, every bit helps.
secure all vents and louvres, and cover openings with 6mm galvanized wire mesh.
live trapping is possible the animals may  subsequently be released at some distance from the building, or killed by  fumigation rat baits and poisons rats are inquisitive they are also creatures of habit.
in either case provision should be made for clearing  any debris that accumulates.
other invertebrate pests invertebrates other than the arthropoda cause little damage to buildings,  although some may pose a health risk to occupants woodlice woodlice are crustaceans.
the building should also be checked for building defects that could  allow pigeon access to the interior of the roof spaces.
since the same roosts may be used for months at a time, large  amounts of faeces may build up, and the noise, from late afternoon until well  after nightfall, may be intolerable control may be achieved by spasmodic scaring of the roosting birds,  preventing access or even using repellent chemicals woodpeckers
control is therefore unlikely to be achieved by the application of a single product or technique.
there are exceptions to the rule, which allow the felling of protected trees:
weil's disease, a severe and often fatal form of jaundice, is spread, particularly in water, by rat (and less often mouse) urine.
some of the more common  techniques currently employed are listed below when considering control options  it is useful to distinguish those that reduce pigeon numbers in an area or  merely modify their behaviour food reduction
such organisms can cause damage to buildings or inconvenience to building occupants.
after pupating, the  adult beetle tunnels to the surface, making a flight hole 2mm in diameter.
management measures responsibility for aspects of the control of the pigeon problem must be  specifically included in the programmes for the management of the cleaning and  maintenance of the building.
creepers on the surface of a building marginally increase its  wind resistance, and thus the likelihood of damage in a storm.
gain entry through 8mm holes burrow up to 1m underground travel up to 0.5 km from their nest climb up pipes and wires swim survive on as little as 1ml of water per day while eating dry food additional exclusion methods total exclusion of rodents may not be cost-effective, but deterrence of entry most certainly is.
it is then important to monitor the effect of any measures taken and to take further actions as necessary.
these can be reduced by appropriate management  and public education programmes problems caused by pigeons pigeon activity in and around a building may directly damage the structure  as pigeons are capable of lifting roof coverings to force an entry, especially  if these are already slightly displaced.
when threatened by a  raptor, pigeons tend to cower into their roosts rather than fly away.
some feel that the overall effect is negligible, while others feel that climbing plants should be avoided at all costs.
where stagnant water can neither be covered nor drained, stocking with predators such as fish should be considered.
a higher standard of expertise appears to be expected from knowledgeable and well funded bodies such as the national trust, than is expected of private individuals landowners are liable for injuries caused by defective trees to persons entitled to access to the land.
bird's nests are a frequent route of entry of the moth larvae into buildings.
house longhorn beetle, hylotrupes bajalus adults black or dull brown beetle, 10-20mm long, grey patches of hair on  wing covers, smooth central line with shiny bumps either side.
plant in clear ground, well away from drainage  pipes or other water-containing services which may be damaged by root action site preparation.
ptinus tectus is said to have originated in tasmania, but has now spread worldwide, particularly in the colder regions.
again provision of adequate access and equipment is very important.
in britain, the black rat is mainly confined to sea ports both species are omnivorous, but the black rat prefers vegetable food.
presumably, this responsibility applies to plants growing on any land  to which the public has access, or a right of way exists glasgow corporation v  taylor, 1922 plants and planning and other restrictions tree preservation orders are discussed below the planting or the retention of plants, trees or gardens can be a  condition of planning permission, or can form part of the conditions governing  a conservation area.
a continuous and vigorous policy of food restriction should be applied around the building.
use sheet metal or concrete to block off all small openings to the outside, particularly in the foundation and ground floor of a building.
the larvae eat almost any type of dry, stored food, as well as carpets and furs.
recognisable by the furry golden hair on its thorax, the adult cluster fly is in itself completely harmless.
adults in this group rest with their abdomens pointing away from the wall.
efficient pigeon control requires that the extent and nature of the problem should be defined before any action is contemplated.
note that grey squirrels are an introduced species, and consequently, if they are caught alive in a trap, they must not be released at some other location rats and mice are potentially damaging in both urban and rural settings.
damp masonry and accumulations of debris can provide a substrate in which roots may grow.
it is widely distributed throughout britain pentarthrum huttoni pentarthrum huttoni is an indigenous species and widespread in britain and  ireland.
the larvae of several species of moth may damage building  contents.
the wooden  churches of romania, sadly neglected during the communist era, have recently  suffered severe damage from woodpeckers in search of wood boring insects.
under the 1981 wildlife and countryside act, this is the  responsibility of english nature (formerly the nature conservancy council), if  it considers that the land is of special interest because of its flora, fauna,  geological or physiographical features.
the short and long term consequence of the problem should be assessed and costed so that their relative importance is appreciated the next stage is to carry out a detailed study of the ecology of the pigeon population in the area.
this is particularly so when pigeons obtain access to the interior of a building.
about 1000 species are known all are in their adult stages are external parasites on mammals and birds, and feed on their blood.
adult stage lives less than six weeks, larvae remain in wood for 3 to 10 years.
plants, especially trees, growing in the vicinity of buildings may also have adverse effects disturbance of ground water by trees, fire risk, lightning hazards and physical damage, especially in relation to storm damage landowners are obliged to cut back plant growth where it interferes with the safe passage of vehicles or pedestrians when plants are growing over neighbouring properties, the owners of the neighbouring properties are entitled to cut back the plants at the boundary line, regardless of whether (in the case of trees) this is compatible with good arboricultural practice landowners are responsible for any damage caused by plants growing within their property, eg trees falling onto neighbouring highways or properties where the public has right of access, or a poisonous plant grows over the boundary, landowners are responsible for its effects.
regular and drastic pruning above ground helps reduce the rate of increase in the diameter of roots types of climbing plants back to top?
the larvae  develop in animal dung.
use germicidal janitorial  detergent to clean rodent urine off surfaces grease marks and dirt greasy smudges on wals, beams and pipes deposited from dirty and oily  rodent fur.
main host is man but domestic animals such as dogs and cats also attacked, and with some wild animals such as foxes, badgers and hedgehogs.
however there is a general lack of understanding of the problem among management and building professionals.
eggs, once laid, can remain dormant for months if the  water dries up.
practice good housekeeping methods in kitchens, cafeterias and lunch rooms.
some feel that the overall effect is negligible, while others  feel that climbing plants should be avoided at all costs.
the larvae usually spin tubes of silk in which they live infestations may be counteracted by washing, dry cleaning, ironing or airing woollen clothes before storing them in sealed units, and using proprietary anti-moth compounds.
repeated dosage over five days is needed.
damp masonry and accumulations of debris can provide a substrate in which roots  may grow.
birds, on account of their being able to gain access at all levels of a building, and on account of their propensity to carry around nesting material and other debris can indirectly cause both structural and environmental health problems in buildings.
a  peculiarity of the species is that the males fly backwards and forwards in  short, jerky movements eg around a light fitting.
they may therefore form flocks of anything from tens to hundreds of individuals, depending on the available food sources.
this should involve the elimination of refuse and litter  by regular cleaning, the use of pigeon-proof refuse containers, and public  education to discourage voluntary feeding.
a peculiarity of the species is that the males fly backwards and forwards in short, jerky movements eg around a light fitting.
in dwellings, the beetles live on food and  other organic debris, frequently hiding between floorcoards, and sometimes  emerging in large numbers.
careful management of plant growth not only enhances the aesthetic benfits of the plants, but also reduces or removes most of the associated problems plants, building users and building owners plants can improve the appearance of a building, and the local microclimate, but plant growth has structural and legal implications for building owners and landowners structural considerations buildings can provide plants with support, or a place to grow undisturbed.
in 1990, this was set at œ10.00
however, it has  been suggested that so-called 'super-rats' are not so much resistant as wise to  warfarin baits wild and domestic animals are unlikely to be harmed as a result of eating a  single rat poisoned by warfarin.
the retention or planting of trees can form part of the conditions of the granting of planning consent, and can form part of the area plans in conservation areas.
the flea larva may act as the vector for the dog tapeworm affects mainly cats, but other animals, including man affected.
required works and/or management measures can then be identified a comprehensive remedial programme should be developed using the results of the investigation and analysis.
however, it is an effective method of scaring the birds away from a location.
where it is expected that the wood will remain damp, it may be protected by a suitable fungicide-insecticide treatment euophyryum rufum is similar to euophyryum confine and is also a native of new zealand.
the growth of mosses and lichens on buildings is frequently welcomed for  aesthetic reasons.
mice can often be detected by their musky odour live or dead rodents observed live or dead rodents seen in the building.
removal of nest sites reduces reproduction but more importantly obliges breeding birds to leave the area.
examples of such trees might be very small, very old, seriously rotten, or quite unsuitable for their surroundings.
this is most  significant in the provision of food, and in giving protection from human  predation.
mosquito larvae, when disturbed, move in a characteristic jerking, curling movement.
the use of noxious stimuli such as loud sirens or explosions often becomes ineffective for similar reasons.
in addition, vegetation can  provide high level access for rodent pests, which might have been successfully  excluded at ground level general recommendations the growth of climbing plants on buildings may be desirable for aesthetic  reasons, but there are no other proven benefits.
netting is a very effective and economical way of preventing pigeon damage  on a building, but may have the following problems netting may give a hazy  appearance to buildings with finely detailed decoration and it may be obtrusive  on light or brightly coloured buildings.
they may be repelled from entering roof and other spaces by spreading napthalene: physical exclusion is preferable wherever possible.
bait shyness  develops rapidly, and even with warfarin-type baits, it is difficult to  persuade the animals to eat enough over a period to be lethal suitable baits for mice include fruit, cake, peanut butter, seeds, sugar  candy, gum drops and oatmeal traps the snap trap, also called the guillotine, spring or break-back trap) is  cheap, effective and widely available.
food supplies rather than predators are the main determinants of pigeon numbers.
for example the availability of safe nest  sites may be the critical factor attracting activity around a particular  building.
however, birds disturbed from one roosting area may choose  another, and continue there just as if they had never been disturbed.
practice good  housekeeping methods in kitchens, cafeterias and lunch rooms.
the results of the investigation of pigeon ecology around the problems  building should be analysed in detail.
nests will  usually be found in dark, dry, sheltered, and undisturbed areas, and are  usually well concealed paw prints tracks of paw prints on dusty surfaces.
the defect was latent and could not have been noticed in a reasonable inspection case >, a tree owned by the national trust fell onto a road causing an accident which resulted in serious injury.
house flies, musca domestica associated the world over with human habitation, the house fly creates  great annoyance and some threat to health.
the effect of current and previous pigeon  control measures should be noted.
traps should be checked daily.
eliminate food sources keep food out of the building or, at least, in sealed metal containers.
this is especially true as total elimination  of the pigeons and their associated problems is unlikely to be cost effective  or even achievable.
theobaldia is one of the largest mosquitoes and has a particularly painful bite which often becomes inflamed.
shooting using an air gun or .22 garden gun may not significantly affect pigeon population.
originating in northern europe,  the beetle is now distributed worldwide.
creepers provide cover for all manner of animals which may cause a nuisance in buildings - flies, wasps and other insects, sites for birds to nest and roost, and parasites associated with this, and lead to periodic invasions of normally harmless creatures such as spiders.
this requires some background knowledge and the careful assessment of each case the feral pigeon columba livia var.
when newly hatched, the young are very immature, being blind and without  feathers.
neglect, damp conditions and storage that is not moth-proof have often led to the loss of irreplaceable material pest of wool in warehouses and dwellings.
however they are expensive and loose their effect after a  year or so.
ensure that cladding and other surface finishes are  sound and firmly affixed choosing where to plant.
prevention of infestations should be approached from three angles discouragement of entry into buildings, prevention of access to food and water, and destruction of animals which do gain entry.
this can cause massive water penetration and severe decay problems.
however there is a general lack of  understanding of the problem among management and building professionals.
keep food out of the building or, at least, in sealed metal containers.
the larvae are whitish, very  active, worm-like and up to 4mm in length.
in the event of accidental ingestion of the poison, vitamin k should be administered under medical or vetinerary supervision fumigation should only be resorted to when all other methods have failed.
they  generally cause little damage, but they may introduce cat fleas into buildings,  especially in their sleeping places squirrels squirrels are generally only a minor irritation, but they have been known  to chew cables and electrical wiring.
there are no wings, but the legs are well developed.
traps require a private area for operation and regular attention by an experienced operator.
do not handle live or dead rodents with bare hands see precautions described below capabilities of rats rats are able to gain entrance through any opening larger than 13mm square climb both horizontal and vertical wires and cables climb the inside of vertical pipes which are 40-100mm in diameter
it was 'not expected that they should have the knowledge of an expert arboriculturalist, but something more than the ordinary countryman'.
destruction of external animals is of limited usefulness, except where the external population is high and its food supply is limited, resulting in unusually determined attempts to enter buildings.
their faeces provide an  ideal environment for the growth of the organisms causing such diseases as  histoplasmosis, aspergillosis, cryptococcis and listeriosis.
the adults rest with their abdomens parallel to the wall and the larvae hang down from the water surface.
bark beetle, ernobius mollis
repeated dosage  over five days is needed.
without actual measurements it is not possible to establish the veracity of these claims older buildings without damp proof courses depend on the evaporation of water from the surface of the masonry.
infestations mostly in area around surrey and sw london, where the building regulations stipulate treatment of timber intended to prevent the further spread of the insect.
greenbottle larvae have been found in unhealed wounds both in humans and livestock.
in most cases a percentage reduction in pigeon numbers or the control of a particularly damaging activity is all that is required.
therefore  the use of trained airborne predators would not be useful in these  circumstances, but around airfields, the aim of control methods is to reduce  the risk of aircraft bird strikes, rather than to prevent roosting.
overall responsibility for pigeon management should be given to an individual manager and relevant accounts kept so that the cost of pigeon damage and its prevention can be assessed.
in the case of a protected tree suddenly requiring urgent attention, for example after a storm, the evidence of an expert, or failing that, photographic evidence, should be obtained it was noted that a disproportionately large number of trees subject to tpos fell in the great 1987 storm.
these bugs  occasionally bite humans.
larvae up to 30mm long, straight, pale cream, three small black dots on either side of mouth.
this should involve the elimination of refuse and litter by regular cleaning, the use of pigeon-proof refuse containers, and public education to discourage voluntary feeding.
while it may be true that a dense covering of leaves may repel light rain,  it has been argued that the net effect of vegetation is to make the external  walls of a building damper.
in addition the overall pigeon problem in  the area should be assessed annually as part of the building management  programme in order to assess the efficiency of the programme.
removal of water containing rubbish can greatly reduce the numbers of urban mosquitoes.
inadequately ventilated buildings can accumulate moisture, leading  to fungal problems avoid clutter keep storage areas uncluttered and orderly, and inspect them frequently.
infestation often starts in birds' nests in and around buildings.
local authorites have been held responsible for deaths by poisoning as a result  of children eating the berries of poisonous plants growing in parks and botanic  gardens.
if this bark is not completely removed the wood is used in building, oval flight holes are produced, resembling those of the house longhorn beetle.
nests will usually be found in dark, dry, sheltered, and undisturbed areas, and are usually well concealed paw prints tracks of paw prints on dusty surfaces.
it is  regarded as the most humane method of killing such animals diseases spread by rodents rats can spread disease both directly and indirectly.
the gels can also cause damage or fouling problems themselves and  can be very difficult to clean off a building once applied.
because of the possibility of disease, do not  handle rodent droppings directly wear gloves or use a dustpan urine droplets urine deposited as small dribbles or as a line of droplets.
deciduous creepers may build up dead leaves, birds' nests and other debris, with much the same effect storm damage.
adults black or dull brown beetle, 10-20mm long, grey patches of hair on wing covers, smooth central line with shiny bumps either side.
with planning regulations, this is not necessarily the case, but on the other hand, the building owner may be obliged to replace the tree or trees, with similar ones back to top?
dusky brown with three, (sometimes feint) spots on the forewing.
the natural diet of pigeons is one of seeds and grains but they easily  learn to exploit a large range of processed vegetable and animal products.
similar provisions exist for trees, hedges or dead planting which damage the highway, or which make the highway dangerous by excluding the sun or the wind tree preservation orders (tpos) are made by local planning authorities 'in the interest of amenity'.
for the first few days, they are fed with 'pigeons' milk', a cheesy  substance produced in the wall of the crop.
greenbottle larvae have been found in  unhealed wounds both in humans and livestock.
they may occasionally enter  buildings in the autumn or winter.
the mice, if identified, should not be  poisoned, but should either be ignored, or caught alive in special traps, and  subsequently released in the countryside rodent control rodent infestations create considerable hazards for buildings, their  contents and their occupants.
although rarely seen far from human habitation, starlings were not noted in towns prior to 1900.
this must take into account the management and use of the building as well as aesthetic and financial constraints only rarely will it be possible to eliminate a pigeon population or to totally exclude pigeons from a building.
ptinus fur is an indigenous species found mainly in the rotting bark of old broad leaved trees.
however, falcons and other raptors are used successfully to clear birds from feeding sites such as airfields.
where stagnant water can neither be covered nor drained, stocking with  predators such as fish should be considered.
ensure  that attic vents are screened.
larval activity  may occasionally be audible as a scraping sound.
pigeon activity of this sort can thus  negate the effect of conservation and remedial work.
this is the most important measure  in any pest control strategy.
wingspan 12-17mm, golden buff to yellowish grey.
weeds may grow  from seed in damp masonry, in accumulated debris in gutters, and other areas  where ponding has occurred, such as flat roofs, and in yards and other exterior  areas.
they  may be deterred from climbing trees or walls by placing a 2 feet wide metal  band around the tree or on the wall, about 3 to 4 feet above ground.
fasten 400mm  squares of sheet metal over small pipes and wires that run up walls.
in buildings the problem often arises from roosting rather than feeding behaviour.
however, it should be noted that fish may be affected by insecticides, particularly the pyrethroids.
before considering planting, bear in mind that ground  levels must be at least 150mm below dpc level, and that dpc bridging by plant  stems, soil or debris must be avoided.
correct identification of the pest causing the problem in a building is essential for choosing an effective solution.
the most important measures to be taken are often general maintenance and management works.
trapping has the advantage that it prevents the rodent from dying in an inaccessible location where it will produce a foul smell and attract insect pests.
the larvae eat almost any type of dry, stored  food, as well as carpets and furs.
deciduous creepers also deposit large quantities  of leaves directly around the building displacement of building elements.
the court held that the trust had a 'special duty of care'.
badly infected timber should be removed and burned.
unless reinforced by actual pigeon deaths, they soon learn to ignore alarming sights and sounds.
problems arise  both from nesting and communal roosting.
and its by-products are very familiar  to those involved in building surveying and maintenance especially to those  working in city centres many pest control companies offer pigeon control services and many pigeon  exclusion systems are marketed.
the adult is about 6mm long, leaf like, its colour varying from amber to red or mahogany colour.
considerable suffering, however, can be caused if the animal is not killed but caught eg by one of its limbs traps must be placed out of the reach of the public, especially children.
the larvae are whitish, very active, worm-like and up to 4mm in length.
consequently, disagreement can be over whether a tree is worth say œ300 or œ400, but it is much less likely over whether a tree is worth œ300 or œ3000.
shelving and cabinets should be mounted a minimum of 10 cm off the floor to  allow for thorough cleaning and inspection and to discourage pests from  residing there prevent entry by climbing cut back any overhanging branches to beyond 3 metres from the building, and  remove any climbing plants which animals could use to gain access at upper  levels deter animals from living close to a building dig up, disturb or remove nesting sites, burrows and hiding places.
as with other biologically based building problems their control requires  the application of a continuing strategy of measures to control the combination  of environmental factors which favour their activities.
the building should be routinely inspected for pigeons, fresh faeces,  nesting materials and pigeon related problems such as blocked roof drainage  systems.
the problem of this technique and others that involve the removal of birds from an area without reducing the suitability of the environment is that other birds will soon move in from adjacent areas.
emerges from infected timber from july to october.
the adult is about 6mm long, leaf like, its colour varying from amber to red or  mahogany colour.
more seriously, they block rainwater drainage systems with their faeces, feathers and other detritus.
as the plant grows, ground levels around it will tend to rise, for  which allowance must be made.
wood in contact with infested material may be damaged by shallow  boring or scoring white shouldered house moth, endrosis sarcitrella scavenger feeding on grain or vegetable debris in dwellings, farm  buildings, warehouses.
the nests are large, untidy masses of  feathers and vegetable matter fitted into any suitable aperture such as  hopperheads, gutters, downpipes and roof or wall spaces if a bird sized hole  exists.
adults in this group rest with their abdomens  pointing away from the wall.
they  work by producing a stimulus that is perceived as frightening or noxious by the  pigeons.
these marks are only visible in high traffic areas, or around holes  etc, where the animals have had to squeeze against a surface to pass nests of shredded material nests made from shredded material, such as paper or textiles.
if this is not done it will soon tear loose.
main host is man but domestic animals such as  dogs and cats also attacked, and with some wild animals such as foxes, badgers  and hedgehogs.
the results of  water penetration are also more serious as there may already be serious damp  and decay problems in the buildings.
creepers can block ventilation routes, either by growing through them or over them, or as a result of the build up of debris.
although some of these are quite effective they suffer from a number of problems sharp steel spikes are very dangerous to maintenance personnel, litter may become caught on the spikes, build-up of faeces makes them ineffective, their appearance may be unattractive, they are relatively expensive and they may require more fixing points than nets or wires
infestations may  be recognised by oval, 6mm to 10mm oval, often ragged emergence holes.
presumably, this responsibility applies to plants growing on any land to which the public has access, or a right of way exists glasgow corporation v taylor, 1922 tree preservation orders are discussed below the planting or the retention of plants, trees or gardens can be a condition of planning permission, or can form part of the conditions governing a conservation area.
furs, skins, insect collections, seeds,  dried fruit, carpets, herbs, clothing, leather and bookbindings can all be  destroyed in a remarkably short period of times.
this requires some  background knowledge and the careful assessment of each case natural history of the pigeon the feral pigeon columba livia var.
if practicable, avoid leaving plastic  refuse bags out overnight back to top?
being extremely  timid, they may occur in quite large numbers without often being seen.
it lays its eggs only under the bark of newly felled oak, chestnut or other hardwood.
fill in burrow entrances and check for excavation on the following day to determine if they are in use sounds of gnawing, squeaking, or scampering sounds of gnawing, squeaking, or scampering in walls.
pigeon droppings quickly deface finishes both to the inside and outside of buildings and are difficult and expensive to remove if measures are not taken to minimise pigeon activity around a building, their presence will cause significant problems for building management and maintenance.
the tree is healthy and symmetrical, but has been slightly damaged by lightning (f=2 points).
weil's  disease, a severe and often fatal form of jaundice, is spread, particularly in  water, by rat (and less often mouse) urine.
creepers such as ivy put out rootlets which adhere  strongly to the surface on which it is growing, and which may be very difficult  to remove without either damaging the surface, or leaving highly visible areas  of woody deposits.
exclusion methods must not interfere with normal ventilation of  buildings.
infestations mostly in area around  surrey and sw london, where the building regulations stipulate treatment of  timber intended to prevent the further spread of the insect.
there are two groups of mosquitoes, culcicine and anopheline, the larval stages of both are spent in stagnant water.
appreciation of this fact, and the presentation of achievable targets to the  building owner or manager will prevent disappointment
do not handle live or dead  rodents with bare hands see precautions described below capabilities of rats rats are able to gain entrance through any opening larger than 13mm square  climb both horizontal and vertical wires and cables climb the inside of  vertical pipes which are 40-100mm in diameter climb the outside of vertical  pipes and conduits up to 75mm in diameter climb the outside of vertical pipes  of any size if the pipe is within 75mm of a wall or other continuous support  for the rodent crawl horizontally on any type of pipe or conduit
in britain, the black rat is mainly  confined to sea ports both species are omnivorous, but the black rat prefers vegetable food.
the  next step is to identify the factors limiting the pigeon population, and those  limiting the troublesome activities.
this will require appropriate budget provisions to be made.
it is essential that the growth be regularly trimmed so that  growth remains well away from windows, ventilators, areas of delicate finish,  and well below the level of the eaves on no account must the building owner permit growth over gutters or roofs,  or into the eaves or any other point of entry into the building large, well established rootstocks should be avoided as these are more  likely to cause problems.
apply a non-toxic tracking powder, such as talc (not flour), along walls or suspected runs, and observe for several days to confirm the presence of rodents.
insecticides destruction of larvae by insecticides is not recommended as relatively  large amounts of insecticide are needed to obtain a lethal concentration.
the use of noxious  stimuli such as loud sirens or explosions often becomes ineffective for similar  reasons.
until exclusion methods are in place or if exclusion proves impossible, continuous trapping may be necessary.
the feral pigeon columba livia var.
deciduous creepers also deposit large quantities of leaves directly around the building displacement of building elements.
jump  vertically as much as 1 m from a flat surface jump horizontally 1.2 m on a flat  surface jump horizontally at least 2.4 m from an elevation of 4.5 m drop 15 m  without being killed or seriously injured burrow vertically in earth to a depth  of 1.25 m climb brick or other rough exterior walls which offer footholds to  gain access to upper storeys of structures climb vines, shrubs and trees, or  travel along telephone or power lines to gain access to upper storeys of  buildings reach as much as 330mm along smooth, vertical walls swim as far as  0.8 km in open water dive through water plumbing traps and travel in sewer  lines even against substantial water currents gnaw through a wide variety of  materials, including lead sheeting, lime mortar, aerated concrete blocks and  aluminium sheeting capabilities of mice mice are able to jump to heights of 800mm jump gaps of 1.5m gain entry  through 8mm holes burrow up to 1m underground travel up to 0.5 km from their  nest climb up pipes and wires swim survive on as little as 1ml of water per day  while eating dry food additional exclusion methods total exclusion of rodents may not be cost-effective, but deterrence of  entry most certainly is.
the behaviour may be  deterred by painting the surface with 10 per cent pentachlorophenol oil (this  may cause staining), by suspending strips of aluminium foil over the surface,  or by shielding with chicken wire or nylon netting occasional damage to insect infested timbers has been reported.
prevent the formation of condensation on cold pipes by installing pipe insulation.
regular inspections are therefore a necessity when creeper growth  is permitted.
mice often enter buildings in autumn to overwinter, and constitute a common rodent problem brown rat, rattus norvegicus (norway, common, sewer, wharf or house rat) total length 30 to 45 cm
nests have also been  reported on the flat roofs and even window sills of warehouses.
in poorly  insulated buildings prone to overheating, building occupants may see this as an  advantage, and in hot damp weather, the effect on the building moisture balance  may be positive
weight up to 25 grams colour brownish-grey with grey belly nose pointed ears large tail longer than body dark in colour reproduction sexually mature in 5 to 12 weeks capable of a litter every 3.5 weeks to 4 weeks, and up to 60 young per year food omnivorous but prefer cereals droppings 6 mm long narrow range worldwide habitat individuals usually range less than 12 metres from nest; can pass through 10mm (3/8") hole enter buildings in fall for shelter during winter inhabit enclosed spaces such as wall cavities burrow 20 cm deep excellent climbers, good swimmers, and can jump 30 cm field mice are protected wild animals.
until exclusion methods are in place or if exclusion proves impossible,  continuous trapping may be necessary.
small wingless insects, yellow to almost black in colour, with a hard narrow body covered in backward pointing spines.
weed  growth increases the rate at which soil and other debris accumulates.
examples include ponding in gutters, water cisterns, stagnant streams, bogs and drains.
the maximum lifespans in years of some common british species are as follows: yew1500 oak500 sweet chestnut450 london plane400 sycamore400 common lime400 horse chestnut350 walnut200 for legal and accounting purposes, it is often necessary to calculate the amenity value of trees, using a system of points.
the bore dust consists of gritty-feeling cream, sausage shaped pellets.
weeds and  the soil or debris in which they are growing should be removed during regular  inspections, and any faults in the detailing should be rectified regrowth of existing weeds weeds with strong root or rhizome structures such as dandelion, dock,  bindweed and ground elder can break through asphalt, paving and even concrete  laid on top of them.
most authorities stress that prevention by exclusion is the most effective long-term solution to a mammalian pest problem.
the animals are said to feel no discomfort and hence are not usually warned off the baits.
fluorakil' and 'compound 1081', usually as cereal bait.
covering the surface of necessary still water such as water butts inhibits egg laying and removing light inhibits micro-organism growth and hence reduces larval growth.
infestations may be recognised by oval, 6mm to 10mm oval, often ragged emergence holes.
a large proportion of a flock feeding in a given area can be removed by this technique.
they can create much noise and disturbance, can introduce parasites and may bite fiercely if cornered.
the eggs are white or cream coloured, and unlike those of most other external parasites, do not adhere to the host, but instead fall to the ground, where the larvae feed on debris and faecal matter.
shoots growing into loft spaces may cause further damage in attempting to grow back towards the light pests.
lesser house fly, fannia canicularis similar to the common house fly, but smaller, this fly is very common  throughout europe.
anopheline mosquitoes, represented in britain by anopheles maculipennis are vectors for malaria.
under the act, 93 types of plant are currently protected, with special protection for birds, wetlands and forestry back to top?
inspect the tracking powder  with a raking light to enhance the visibility of the tracks.
malaria is rare in britain and is mainly seen in people recently arrived from overseas, but was endemic in east anglia and elsewhere until the 17th century.
however, where a large population of rats is gradually killed off, repeated scavenging of the carcases may result in an animal receiving the lethal repeat dose acute poisons the most frequently used acute poison is fluoroacetamide, sold under the trade names '
larval faecal pellets, 1mm  diameter and not attached to materials are sometimes mistaken for eggs.
they  have also been reported to cause minor damage to interior finishes and building  contents starlings starlings are middle sized, sociable, aggressive birds recognisable by  their jerky walk and iridescent plumage.
when the masonry has dried out, and all signs of plant growth have ceased, the masonry should be properly pointed weed growth in roofs and gutters indicates poor detailing or maintenance, resulting in ponding of water, or the build up of debris.
this represents a  considerable waste of time and money, and may lead to the degradation and loss  of valuable building features pigeon detritus and especially pigeon faeces represents both an aesthetic  and a public health problem.
most types of climbing plants can use a building for support often this has a decorative effect so that the plant growth may have been welcomed or even initiated by the building owner.
larval faecal pellets, 1mm diameter and not attached to materials are sometimes mistaken for eggs.
in general, trapping is more effective for mice, while poisoning works better with rats.
under the national heritage act 1983, english heritage may include parks and gardens on the 'register of historic parks and gardens'.
appreciation of this fact, and the presentation of achievable targets to the building owner or manager will prevent disappointment
it is regarded as the most humane method of killing such animals rats can spread disease both directly and indirectly.
the communal roosting habit of starlings also  creates problems.
in dwellings, the beetles live on food and other organic debris, frequently hiding between floorcoards, and sometimes emerging in large numbers.
noble v harrison, 1926 3.
mosquitoes of this group do not appear to transmit disease in britain, but in the tropics they are vectors for yellow fever, dengue fever and filariasis.
however, moss growth in particular may have a number of  undesirable consequences: surface erosion - as a result of physical adhesion and chemical breakdown  of surface by rootlets of moss water retention.
alternatively the availability of sheltered roosting sites may be  crucial it is essential to identify factors which can be controlled in a  cost-effective manner.
growth of creepers can block gutters and spouts  and other rain drainage routes, leading to blockage and subsequent water  penetration into the building.
fixing  should be by stainless steel pins and wires.
required works and/or management measures can then be  identified remedial programme a comprehensive remedial programme should be developed using the results of  the investigation and analysis.
they should then be  protected from future blockage with 'sausages' of crushed chicken wire or  secured with mesh grills.
unfortunately they have proved generally ineffective for this species due to its great adaptability and learning powers.
however, in rural and semi-rural areas, the flies enter buildings and building  spaces in huge numbers at night, and in the autumn to hibernate.
building type more than anything determines the degree of nuisance posed by  birds birds: miscellaneous species gulls there are three main species of gull: larus argentatus, the  herring gull,larus fuscus, the lesser black headed gull and rissa  tridactyla, the kittiwake
the larvae tunnel in the sapwood of newly felled coniferous timber, being found up to 50mm from the bark, and consequently end up in timber used for building purposes.
nests on houses are usually on the roof, often between the chimney pots.
ensure that cladding and other surface finishes are sound and firmly affixed choosing where to plant.
careful management of plant growth not only enhances  the aesthetic benfits of the plants, but also reduces or removes most of the  associated problems plants, building users and building owners plants can improve the appearance of a building, and the local  microclimate, but plant growth has structural and legal implications for  building owners and landowners structural considerations buildings can provide plants with support, or a place to grow undisturbed.
while the individual householder may have little control over land use over the surronding area, every bit helps.
the young reach maturity in about 4 weeks.
the growth of mosses and lichens on buildings is frequently welcomed for aesthetic reasons.
they may therefore form flocks of anything from tens to hundreds of  individuals, depending on the available food sources.
such a programme would require a minimum of monthly inspection.
being extremely timid, they may occur in quite large numbers without often being seen.
anopheline mosquitoes anopheline mosquitoes, represented in britain by anopheles maculipennis are vectors for malaria.
rat nesting and  access burrows are usually less than 1.2m deep.
in all activities that do not involve reproduction, the pigeon is a social bird which will actively seek the company of others in order to rest, preen, and feed.
the behaviour may be deterred by painting the surface with 10 per cent pentachlorophenol oil (this may cause staining), by suspending strips of aluminium foil over the surface, or by shielding with chicken wire or nylon netting occasional damage to insect infested timbers has been reported.
when alarmed they emit a noxious  odour, which combined with the smell of an unhygienic bedroom is particularly  nauseating.
since about 1940, gulls have increasingly taken to occupying buildings for  both nesting and perching.
note that grey squirrels  are an introduced species, and consequently, if they are caught alive in a  trap, they must not be released at some other location rodents, rodentia rats and mice are potentially damaging in both urban and rural settings.
considerable suffering,  however, can be caused if the animal is not killed but caught eg by one of its  limbs traps must be placed out of the reach of the public, especially children.
butterflies do not damage buildings, but it must be borne in mind that some species which hibernate in buildings are protected under the wildlife and countryside act.
any detritus should be cleaned off the structure and any defects should be repaired as necessary.
a  large proportion of a flock feeding in a given area can be removed by this  technique.
in  the case of poison, it is essential to lay enough so that every rat that eats  it receives a fatal dose, as any surviving animals will be warned off such  baits.
the tree had been inspected the previous autumn by a competent woodman and no defect had been found.
weight 200 to 550 grams colour brown or reddish-grey with a lighter grey belly nose blunt ears short and thick tail shorter than head and body lighter underside rough and thick reproduction sexually mature in 8 to 12 weeks average 24 young per year females have 12 mammae food omnivorous droppings capsule-shaped average 20mm long 40 to 125 passed daily range worldwide habitat individuals range over half a kilometre outdoors, and often along established runs indoors burrow approximately one metre underground or inhabit lower levels of buildings good climbers and swimmers, and can jump heights to 80cm and gaps to 1.5m black rat, rattus rattus (roof or ship rat) total length 42cm weight up to 300 grams colour black or brownish-grey with a lighter belly nose pointed ears thin and large tail slender, longer than head and body reproduction sexually mature in 12 to 16 weeks capable of a litter every 3.5 to 4 weeks fewer young per year than r. norvegicus females have 10 mammae food omnivorous droppings tear-drop shaped average 12mm long range ports and coastal areas habitat individuals usually range within 100 metres prefer upper levels of buildings good climbers and swimmers, and can jump 1.5m house mouse, mus musculus total length 17.5 (body, 8.5 cm tail, 9cm)
it is therefore  prudent to follow rodent eradication procedures with insecticidal sprays such  as pyrethrins fleas are responsible for the transmission of a number of diseases, most  notably plague and typhus human flea, pulex irritans occurs throughout the world.
adult stage lives less than six weeks, larvae  remain in wood for 3 to 10 years.
in addition, vegetation can provide high level access for rodent pests, which might have been successfully excluded at ground level general recommendations the growth of climbing plants on buildings may be desirable for aesthetic reasons, but there are no other proven benefits.
often the most significant problems are not immediately  obvious and those which may be causing most management disquiet may in reality  be trivial.
insects so attracted may be destroyed by electrocution, a  rapidly spinning blade, by sticky fly papers, or even by insecticide.
see environmental health section back to top?
this disruption of drainage and the resultant water  penetration is especially damaging in unoccupied buildings where problems are  less likely to be detected before major damage has been done.
these can be reduced by appropriate management and public education programmes pigeon activity in and around a building may directly damage the structure as pigeons are capable of lifting roof coverings to force an entry, especially if these are already slightly displaced.
they are also the most cost effective decoration available plants growing in the environs of a building benefit not just the users of the building, but the whole community, and also wildlife.
narcotic baits are available which  stupify the birds which may then be collected and disposed of by licensed bird  handlers.
the larvae makes a case of silk (and any available cloth  fibre) which it drags with it as it moves around.
because many recommended pesticides are, to varying degrees, toxic to man  and to wild and domestic animals, caution must be exercised in their use, and  the manufacturers' directions must be closely followed.
there are two british species of woodpecker, the greater spotted and the lesser spotted.
steely blue beetle, korynetes caeruleus bright steely blue beetle, predator of the deathwatch beetle, and slightly  smaller.
the uncontrolled increase in populations of feral pigeons resulting from this commensal relationship has produced considerable problems in many city and seaport environments.
goals should then be set that are acceptable and achievable within the resources available.
poisoning of birds is illegal in the uk trapping pigeons may be caught in live traps after a short period of baiting.
when fully developed, the larva  spins a cocoon to which stick fine dust particles, thus concealing it.
while it is accepted that trees may have hidden and unforeseeable defects, legal liability can apparently be established, if, with the benefit of hindsight, an expert arboriculturalist could reasonably have been expected to have observed the defect which caused the tree (or part of it) to fall.
weeds and the soil or debris in which they are growing should be removed during regular inspections, and any faults in the detailing should be rectified weeds with strong root or rhizome structures such as dandelion, dock, bindweed and ground elder can break through asphalt, paving and even concrete laid on top of them.
the adults can be a pest in buildings when they  hibernate in large numbers in roof voids, walls and other spaces.
netting is a very effective and economical way of preventing pigeon damage on a building, but may have the following problems netting may give a hazy appearance to buildings with finely detailed decoration and it may be obtrusive on light or brightly coloured buildings.
on the other hand, trees have great amenity value, and they can protect a building against snow cover, and from the wind.
paint is particularly vulnerable and may be stripped off by  contact with ivy interference with drainage.
the guidelines for dealing with these pests may be applicable to other species.
it is also particularly well adapted for living on pigs, and can  occur in great abundance in pig sties the human flea can transmit the plague bacterium, pasteurella pestis , between individual humans, but it is not responsible for the major  outbreaks dog flea, ctenocephalides canis cosmopolitan, parasitises cats, rabbits and man as well as dogs.
ensure that attic vents are screened.
the larval stages of mosquitoes develop in stagnant water and live by filtering micro-organisms living in the water.
this  means that the control techniques used are often inappropriate or misapplied  with the result that they are ineffective.
if the building owner feels  that the aesthetic benefit justifies the physical disadvantages, the following  management steps must be taken: check the building detailing.
in  addition to which, they also require a source of a grit for their crops, and a  source of water breeding given an adequate food supply the pigeon can breed throughout the year and  a stable pair bond is formed.
live trapping may be considered.
efficient pigeon control requires that the extent and nature of the problem  should be defined before any action is contemplated.
most species have eyes, except those that  parasitise nocturnal or subterranean species
preferred nesting sites are dark enclosed areas  simulating a cave or a crevice [3].
eliminate open  stagnant water, or at least prevent aerial access to it.
simple statistical techniques and graphic representation of the can be especially useful for this purpose.
where it is  expected that the wood will remain damp, it may be protected by a suitable  fungicide-insecticide treatment euophyryum confine euophyryum rufum euophyryum rufum is similar to euophyryum confine and is also a native of  new zealand.
the appearance of a many a grim structure has been improved by the growth of flowering plants or creepers, but if plant growth is permitted at all, it must be very carefully managed, and its effects carefully monitored opinions differ over the effect of climbing plants on the moisture balance of buildings.
use sheet metal or concrete to block off all  small openings to the outside, particularly in the foundation and ground floor  of a building.
colour is generally black to  reduce decay of the plastic by ultra violet sunlight
it is  extremely poisonous with a ld50 dose of 15 mg/kg for rats, considerably less  for dogs.
wingspan 12-17mm, golden buff to  yellowish grey.
in the event of accidental ingestion of  the poison, vitamin k should be administered under medical or vetinerary  supervision fumigation fumigation should only be resorted to when all other methods have failed.
ultimately, however, such problems are due to building defects, poor  maintenance, or poor management of plant growth plant cover can reduce erosion by wind and rain, reduce the force with  which draughts and rain can penetrate a building, and reduce the rate of  cooling of a building at night plants may cause direct damage roots and shoots can exert very great forces  when penetrating masonry and other surfaces.
larvae at rest in water lie with their bodies parallel to the surface.
ants, spiders, false scorpions and assasin bugs are enthusiastic predators of bedbugs.
usually such a programme would be the responsibility of those managers responsible for cleaning, but there may be advantages in making pigeon control a health and safety responsibility in order to increase its priority.
it is reddish in colour and about 3mm long, and like the woodworm  beetle, it causes damage to dry wood.
apart from rodents, the following animals may be encountered feral cats live on discarded food, rats, mice and birds.
insecticides, eg pyrethroids are effective against bedbugs, provided that it can reach the crevices where the insects hide.
may cause  serious skin inflammation in victims who become sensitised to its saliva.
using the data it is possible to  determine which pigeon activities and environmental factors are significant in  causing the problems identified.
wood in contact with infested material may be damaged by shallow boring or scoring scavenger feeding on grain or vegetable debris in dwellings, farm buildings, warehouses.
© hutton + rostron, 2005-7.
what is  required therefore is a careful assessment of the pigeon problem, the  ecological factors favouring the pigeons and those factors that could be most  cost effectively controlled.
the short and long term consequence of the problem should be  assessed and costed so that their relative importance is appreciated the next  stage is to carry out a detailed study of the ecology of the pigeon population  in the area.
attacking damp, partially decayed timber (usually involving coniophora cerebella), the larvae burrow for about six months in the wood, before pupating.
before dealing with an unfamiliar animal, check local and national regulations on its status.
it is essential that the growth be regularly trimmed so that growth remains well away from windows, ventilators, areas of delicate finish, and well below the level of the eaves on no account must the building owner permit growth over gutters or roofs, or into the eaves or any other point of entry into the building large, well established rootstocks should be avoided as these are more likely to cause problems.
destruction  of external animals is of limited usefulness, except where the external  population is high and its food supply is limited, resulting in unusually  determined attempts to enter buildings.
this moth is one of the most destructive of the house moths.
this investigation should define the  extent of the problem.
in heavy or driven rain, vegetation does not  prevent water penetration, but it can in principle impede water run-off, and by  cutting out sunlight and impeding air circulation, vegetation can slow the  drying off process when the rain has stopped.
they generally cause little damage, but they may introduce cat fleas into buildings, especially in their sleeping places squirrels are generally only a minor irritation, but they have been known to chew cables and electrical wiring.
extreme care must be taken to ensure that the carcases of poisoned rats are either removed and buried or burned, or else that they are completely inaccessible where they die, otherwise dogs, cats, pigs and wildlife may also be poisoned suitable baits for rats include bacon, raw or cooked meat, fish, peanut butter, fresh bread and oatmeal
narcotic baits are available which stupify the birds which may then be collected and disposed of by licensed bird handlers.
the uncontrolled increase in populations of feral pigeons resulting  from this commensal relationship has produced considerable problems in many  city and seaport environments.
in general, trapping is more effective for mice, while  poisoning works better with rats.
the problem of this technique and others that involve  the removal of birds from an area without reducing the suitability of the  environment is that other birds will soon move in from adjacent areas.
such wiring is unobtrusive, is  easily removed and replaced for maintenance work, and has a life of at least  ten years spikes several different systems of stainless steel or plastic spikes are  available for fitting to buildings to discourage pigeons from landing.
this is not an insignificant problem as tens or even hundreds of thousands of pounds can be spent on pigeon related contracts without proper independent advice or specification and without proper competitive tendering.
mice are also highly territorial, and the males constantly patrol their  territories.
mosses in particular inhibit drying and retain moisture,  increasing the chance of frost damage to masonry and roofing materials blockage of rain drainage channels.
3 to 4.5mm long and rusty brown, it will eat almost any organic matter of vegetable origin - stored food, paper, old fabrics, cork, decayed wood, sawdust or woodshaving.
resort to chemical control methods only when trapping methods have failed.
one species of snail, has been observed to gouge tracks on the  surface of calcareous surfaces, such as lime plaster tapeworms, flukes and roundworms these are agents of disease for both man and his animals.
this can have legal  and planning implications.
this activity can allow significant water penetration into the building and subsequent decay.
this is a potential problem where arches or ledges projected over public areas.
most soft materials, including aluminium, asphalt, and lime  mortar, are susceptable to rodent knawing
the  black rat varies in colour from tawny yellow to black mice are found in perhaps the majority of homes around the world, in  addition to food stores, agricultural land etc.
museums are notoriously short  of money for capital expenditure and repairs and may as a consequence be damp  and unheated.
soil near buildings is seldom at its most fertile, and it may be necessary to import humus to enable healthy plant growth.
larvae up to 30mm long, straight, pale cream, three small black dots on  either side of mouth.
food reduction a continuous and vigorous policy of food restriction should be applied  around the building.
however, weevil infestation increases the structural damage caused by the fungus.
rat droppings often contain hair.
growth of creepers can block gutters and spouts and other rain drainage routes, leading to blockage and subsequent water penetration into the building.
ptilinus pectinicornis common throughout europe and the middle east, this insect is not much seen  in britain.
new traps, or unaccustomed food sources will be treated at first with caution.
this necessitates a site investigation and some analysis a specialist investigation should be carried out to determine the activity of the feral pigeons at the building.
however, falcons and other raptors are used successfully to clear  birds from feeding sites such as airfields.
trees growing in conservation areas are given much the same statutory protection, even though they may not be individually listed for protection.
cluster fly, pollenia rudis recognisable by the furry golden hair on its thorax, the adult cluster fly  is in itself completely harmless.
the eggs hatch into 'rat tail maggots' which suspend themselves from the water surface by means of a breathing tube attached to the posterior part of the abdomen.
contact poisons, poison baiting, and fumigation result in animals dying in inaccessible locations where their corpses will putrefy and attract insect pests.
during the second world war reduction of food  availability dramatically reduced the numbers of pigeons despite the increase  in suitable nesting and roosting sites poisons and narcotic baits poisons can provide an effective control especially those producing a  period of deranged behaviour.
and its by-products are very familiar to those involved in building surveying and maintenance especially to those working in city centres many pest control companies offer pigeon control services and many pigeon exclusion systems are marketed.
the most important factor in pigeon survival is the active promotion of their population by man, for recreational and emotional reasons.
nesting activity is a  major source of the detritus blocking drainage around the building.
weeds, and as much  mortar as is practicable must be removed, and sources of water ingress such as  leaking downpipes, defective coping, defective flashing or roofing, should be  rectified.
ptinus fur ptinus fur is an indigenous species found mainly in the rotting bark of old  broad leaved trees.
at best, these insects are a  serious nuisance, and several species are vectors for a number of diseases with climatic warming, increasing frequency of overseas travel, and  decreasing effectiveness of both anti-malarial drugs and insecticides, the  importance of eliminating breeding sites for mosquitoes cannot be over-stressed.
in addition to which, they also require a source of a grit for their crops, and a source of water given an adequate food supply the pigeon can breed throughout the year and a stable pair bond is formed.
the eggs are white or cream coloured, and unlike those of most other  external parasites, do not adhere to the host, but instead fall to the ground,  where the larvae feed on debris and faecal matter.
fill in burrow entrances and  check for excavation on the following day to determine if they are in use sounds of gnawing, squeaking, or scampering sounds of gnawing, squeaking, or scampering in walls.
examples include  ponding in gutters, water cisterns, stagnant streams, bogs and drains.
usually such a programme would be the responsibility of those managers  responsible for cleaning, but there may be advantages in making pigeon control  a health and safety responsibility in order to increase its priority.
incubation is shared.
there are three approaches to mosquito control; removal of breeding sites, destruction of larvae, destruction of adults, and deterring the insects from biting.
if regular inspection of traps or baits is possible, unpoisoned bait or unsprung traps should be first laid.
they may  be repelled from entering roof and other spaces by spreading napthalene:  physical exclusion is preferable wherever possible.
species of mammalian pest correct identification of the pest causing the problem in a building is  essential for choosing an effective solution.
the shoots of creepers can displace slates, coping stones, bricks and other elements, causing water penetration through roofs, water penetration into walls, and in extreme cases, creating a risk of masonry elements falling off problems with lofts.
the larvae are parasites of earthworms.
food poisoning  organisms such as salmonella may be spread via rat faeices and urine.
problems arise both from nesting and communal roosting.
more significantly they will disturb the birds in those areas where they hunt, preventing roosting, resting and nesting.
is descended from the wild rock dove which inhabits both inland and sea cliffs around the mediterranean and along the west coast of europe [1].
the first and best defence against mammalian pests is to exclude them from the building.
other flies hover flies harmless or beneficial insects, often disguised to look like wasps or  bumble bees.
insecticides, eg pyrethroids are  effective against bedbugs, provided that it can reach the crevices where the  insects hide.
regular inspections are therefore a necessity when creeper growth is permitted.
if this is not done it  will soon tear loose.
under the act, 93 types of plant are currently protected, with  special protection for birds, wetlands and forestry back to top?
such  a programme would require a minimum of monthly inspection.
apart from rodents, the following animals may be encountered feral cats feral cats live on discarded food, rats, mice and birds.
removal of water containing rubbish can greatly reduce the numbers of urban  mosquitoes.
to this end hopperheads and secret gutters draining the roof surfaces should be cleared of all pigeon detritus.
this beetle lives entirely on bark and is harmless.
it may, for example, be quite difficult to prove that a tree was dangerous once it has been cut down and removed.
found in sapwood of most softwood.
may occur in large numbers in warehouses, but also  in houses where it may damage clothes, furnishings and cork floor inlays.
mouse faeces may spread tapeworms back to top?
under the poisons rules 1970, its use in britain is  restricted to sewers, drains, docks and some other areas where human access is  controlled other acute poisons include strychnine, phosphorus paste, zinc phosphate  and sodium fluoroacetate
the bodies of the animals remain in inaccesible locations, where their decay is  likely to cause health problems.
infestation often starts in birds' nests  in and around buildings.
this is because pigeons are living organisms and are able to adapt over time and space to circumvent most measures
traps and baits should be laid on well used runs.
under the national heritage act 1983, english heritage may  include parks and gardens on the 'register of historic parks and gardens'.
theobaldia is one of the largest  mosquitoes and has a particularly painful bite which often becomes inflamed.
creepers such as ivy put out rootlets which adhere strongly to the surface on which it is growing, and which may be very difficult to remove without either damaging the surface, or leaving highly visible areas of woody deposits.
the young reach maturity in about 4  weeks.
clean clothes are much less likely to be  attacked than worn clothes case-bearing clothes moth, tineapellionella pest of wool, hair, feather pillows and stored dried food or vegetable  drugs.
apply a non-toxic tracking powder,  such as talc (not flour), along walls or suspected runs, and observe for  several days to confirm the presence of rodents.
this is especially true as total elimination of the pigeons and their associated problems is unlikely to be cost effective or even achievable.
the mice, if identified, should not be poisoned, but should either be ignored, or caught alive in special traps, and subsequently released in the countryside rodent control rodent infestations create considerable hazards for buildings, their contents and their occupants.
it is essential when laying baits with this type of poison that sufficient  is eaten by the animal to kill it outright, otherwise bait shyness develops.
eggs and immature  bugs die off after 30 to 60 days below 9 degrees celsius, but adults are not  much affected, although largely dormant.
the first  and best defence against mammalian pests is to exclude them from the building.
these animals may also carry diseases that can infect man through bites or by contact with hair, excreta, or parasites, such as fleas, lice, and mites two types of rat are found in britain, the black rat, rattus rattus, and the brown or norway rat, rattus norvegicus.
mice are much less sociable animals than rats, and their feeding habits are very different.
regular and drastic pruning above ground helps reduce  the rate of increase in the diameter of roots types of climbing plants back to top?
since it usually kills instantly, it is  perhaps the most humane of all rodent control methods.
for present purposes, however we shall use the word for small herbaceous plants growing in a building environs.
two eggs are usually produced, and hatch  within 17 to 22 days.
it has not been shown to spread any particular disease, but its habits are similar to those of the common house fly, and it must therefore be regarded as a health hazard.
the building should also be checked for building defects that could allow pigeon access to the interior of the roof spaces.
this is especially useful on narrow ledges and very cost effective where long straight runs of a few metres can be laid.
new traps, or unaccustomed food sources will  be treated at first with caution.
the nests are large, untidy masses of feathers and vegetable matter fitted into any suitable aperture such as hopperheads, gutters, downpipes and roof or wall spaces if a bird sized hole exists.
insects so attracted may be destroyed by electrocution, a rapidly spinning blade, by sticky fly papers, or even by insecticide.
3.5 to 4mm long, the beetle is a dull reddish colour.
acts as a vector of plague in africa
covering the surface of necessary still water such as water butts  inhibits egg laying and removing light inhibits micro-organism growth and hence  reduces larval growth.
they have little ability to prevent water loss  from their bodies, so they must of necessity frequent damp places, where they  feed on fungi and decaying vegetable matter.
these problems are both avoidable and expensive to deal with.
these are placed a few inches above ledges at an appropriate height to interfere with landing and take-off by the pigeons.
they should then be protected from future blockage with 'sausages' of crushed chicken wire or secured with mesh grills.
this must take into account the management and  use of the building as well as aesthetic and financial constraints only rarely  will it be possible to eliminate a pigeon population or to totally exclude  pigeons from a building.
total length 30 to 45 cm weight 200 to 550 grams colour brown or reddish-grey  with a lighter grey belly nose blunt ears short and thick tail shorter than  head and body lighter underside rough and thick reproduction sexually mature in  8 to 12 weeks average 24 young per year females have 12 mammae food omnivorous  droppings capsule-shaped average 20mm long 40 to 125 passed daily range  worldwide
the most common is drumming, which male birds indulge in to define territories  and as part of the courtship ritual.
the larval stages are smaller and more translucent versions of the adult.
harmless or beneficial insects, often disguised to look like wasps or bumble bees.
overall responsibility for pigeon management should be given to an  individual manager and relevant accounts kept so that the cost of pigeon damage  and its prevention can be assessed.
this is  particularly so when large accumulations of filth build up inside a building they are commonly carriers of a number of serious human diseases including  salmonellosis, psiticosis and pseudo-tuberculosis.
eggs, once laid, can remain dormant for months if the water dries up.
very agile, but the female only flies when disturbed.
for example, if a  neighbour's animals are poisoned by eating yew growing on or over the boundary,  the the landowner is responsible for the consequences.
cronin v slough corporation, 1975 2.
however, removal of shelter close to buildings can help reduce the external population, and discourage attempts to gain entry identifying a rodent problem the following signs, often evident before rodents are even seen, indicate that rodents are present tooth marks and gnawing tooth marks from gnawing wood chips near baseboards or cabinets or irregular losses, tears, or soiling of fabrics.
ideally, traps should be secured in place to prevent them from being dragged  away by a trapped animal.
however, birds disturbed from one roosting area may choose another, and continue there just as if they had never been disturbed.
using the data it is possible to determine which pigeon activities and environmental factors are significant in causing the problems identified.
an infestation resembles that caused by the woodworm beetle.
this is especially useful on narrow ledges and very cost effective where long  straight runs of a few metres can be laid.
eggs 1mm  diameter, white found attached to wool or fur.
the building should be routinely inspected for pigeons, fresh faeces, nesting materials and pigeon related problems such as blocked roof drainage systems.
these points are shown highlighted in the table.
consequently, mice are much easier to trap than rats, even with unbaited traps, but they are much more difficult to poison.
3 to 4.5mm long and rusty brown, it will eat almost any  organic matter of vegetable origin - stored food, paper, old fabrics, cork,  decayed wood, sawdust or woodshaving.
damage may include: disturbance of foundations as a result of localised withdrawal of water  from around the foundations physical displacement of foundations and masonry components as a result of  the increasing girth of the roots penetration of joints and cracks in drains and water courses, leading to  blockage or leakage - such penetration is usually the result of an underlying  defect, eg the cracking of clay waste pipes as a result of ground movement above ground physical damage from climbing plants physical damage may include: fire risk.
however, adult mosquitoes frequently enter buildings, either in search of victims, or in order to shelter, and fumigation or insecticide sprays may then be useful.
they are also attracted by butyric acid, reportedly the smell of smelly feet.
this not only causes pollution, it tends to encourage the development of resistant strains.
in poorly insulated buildings prone to overheating, building occupants may see this as an advantage, and in hot damp weather, the effect on the building moisture balance may be positive
when the masonry has dried out, and all signs of plant growth have  ceased, the masonry should be properly pointed weeds growing in roofs and gutters weed growth in roofs and gutters indicates poor detailing or maintenance,  resulting in ponding of water, or the build up of debris.
therefore the use of trained airborne predators would not be useful in these circumstances, but around airfields, the aim of control methods is to reduce the risk of aircraft bird strikes, rather than to prevent roosting.
without actual measurements it is  not possible to establish the veracity of these claims older buildings without damp proof courses depend on the evaporation of  water from the surface of the masonry.
this  not only causes pollution, it tends to encourage the development of resistant  strains.
inadequately ventilated buildings can accumulate moisture, leading to fungal problems keep storage areas uncluttered and orderly, and inspect them frequently.
once the rats  have become used to them, add poison to the bait, or set the trap springs.
though they are actively fed and encouraged by many members of the public, pigeons represent a public nuisance as well as a health hazard.
badly infected timber should  be removed and burned.
in addition, the building, or its contents or occupants may also provide a supply of food.
pigeon activity of this sort can thus negate the effect of conservation and remedial work.
bugs bedbug, cimex lectularius originating in the middle east, the bedbug is now found around the world.
the  length of time pupating varies, but hatching may be triggered by vibration, for  example, that caused by a person walking across the floor of a deserted house flea infestations are not related to building defects, but the nature and  contents of buildings and building finishes can affect the ease with which  infestations can be eradicated.
caulk gaps  between sheet metal guards and wires to prevent mice crawling through poisoning and trapping poisoning and trapping are most effective when combined with suitable  exclusion measures.
rat nesting and access burrows are usually less than 1.2m deep.
keep a record of places where traps are laid in order to prevent their being accidentally tripped.
dealing with such accumulations can be expensive and time consuming because of the protective equipment and procedures that may be required many techniques have been used for controlling pigeons around buildings all of which have advantages and disadvantages [4].
nesting activity is a major source of the detritus blocking drainage around the building.
their numbers have been increasing throughout most of this century, although a recent decline has been reported.
the larvae develop in decaying foodstuffs, preferably in warm places up to a temperature of 50 degrees celsius.
in the case of poison, it is essential to lay enough so that every rat that eats it receives a fatal dose, as any surviving animals will be warned off such baits.
fumigants may also damage building contents animals trapped in their burrows, or inhabiting air-tight buildings may be killed with fumigants such as methyl bromide, chloropicrin or calcium cyanide.
culex pipiens commonly seeks shelter in  buildings, but rarely attacks humans.
as a last  resort, pouring oil onto the water surface is said to block the larval  breathing tube, and prevent them from adhering to the water surface.
physical destruction mosquitoes at night are strongly attracted to short wavelength light, green  to ultra-violet.
most soft materials, including aluminium, asphalt, and lime mortar, are susceptable to rodent knawing
the chemical is a colourless, crystalline solid, very soluble in water, and odourless and tasteless.
ultimately, however, such problems are due to building defects, poor maintenance, or poor management of plant growth plant cover can reduce erosion by wind and rain, reduce the force with which draughts and rain can penetrate a building, and reduce the rate of cooling of a building at night plants may cause direct damage roots and shoots can exert very great forces when penetrating masonry and other surfaces.
beetles weevils weevil infestations are a consequence of fungal infection and like fungal  infections they are eradicated by drying out and ventilation.
planning restrictions are at once more and less binding than tpos.
however, it should be noted that  fish may be affected by insecticides, particularly the pyrethroids.
apart from timber decay organisms, the main problems caused  by bacteria and fungi in buildings are related to the health of the occupants timber decay fungi
the bark beetle, 3 to 6mm long and light yellowish brown in colour, is sometimes mistaken for the death-watch beetle.
as with other biologically based building problems their control requires the application of a continuing strategy of measures to control the combination of environmental factors which favour their activities.
however, the superior climbing abilities of the black rat allow a degree of co-existence.
after trapping has been effectively  carried out, exclusion techniques should be maintained to prevent more pests  from entering the building.
nesting activity is particularly dangerous in this respect as pigeons  frequently nest in hopperheads and parapet gutters causing complete blockage in  a very short time.
sounds will be heard  mainly at night unless the rodent colony is overpopulated odour rats have little odour unless the population is large or well established.
existing weeds in the ground, if not killed or removed before building work starts, may damage asphalt, masonry and even concrete in their attempt to grow out into the light weed growth in masonry indicates chronic water ingress into the masonry, which has also resulted in deterioration of the mortar.
able to eat a wide variety of animal and plant material, it wreaks havoc, particularly in museums.
they do no harm to sound  materials, but the dark faecal matter can cause spoiling slugs and snails these are rarely found in buildings, except in areas of extreme and  persistant damp.
both are protected under thewildlife and countryside act.
creepers can block ventilation routes, either by  growing through them or over them, or as a result of the build up of debris.
the most important of these factors is usually the availability of food sources.
the brown rat is larger, more heavily built and agressive than the black rat and has consequently ousted the black rat from most habitats.
if practicable, avoid leaving plastic refuse bags out overnight back to top?
this is the most successful long-term measure for controlling absolute  numbers of pigeons in an area.
mosquitos have a range of several kilometres, and have an extremely sensitive sense of smell.
the larvae tunnel in the sapwood of  newly felled coniferous timber, being found up to 50mm from the bark, and  consequently end up in timber used for building purposes.
this means they require regular replacement and are uneconomical in most cases.
face fly, musca autumnalis cattle pest which feeds on secretions from the eyes, nose and mouth of  cattle, as well as any sweat or blood from wounds or scratches.
use germicidal janitorial detergent to clean rodent urine off surfaces grease marks and dirt greasy smudges on wals, beams and pipes deposited from dirty and oily rodent fur.
in areas of clay subsoil, the increased growth, or the removal of trees can contribute to the localised expansion or contraction of the clay, with possible harmful effects or subsidence or heave on a building structure trees on balance enhance a good building, but they can also exacerbate a building's defects.
they are also attracted by butyric acid, reportedly the smell  of smelly feet.
culicine mosquitoes are represented in britain by culex pipiens and theobaldia annulata.
there is a tendency in the building industry to regard plants, and particularly trees, with suspicion, if not outright hostility.
in winchester cathedral, an infestation followed after damp-related decay by another fungus, phellinus megaloporus.
rodents engage in gnawing to  wear down their constantly growing incisor teeth, to gain access to food, and  to make nests.
reddish brown, 8 to 10 mm long, with patches of short stiff yellow hairs.
these may only be used by registered pest control officers carbon dioxide fumigation, in a sealed container, may be used to dispose of animals caught alive in traps, which are not intended to be released.
overview the control of feral pigeons is a management problem which requires the  continuous application of a number of measures over a period of time.
weed growth increases the rate at which soil and other debris accumulates.
the guidelines for dealing with these pests may be applicable to  other species.
appropriate reinforcement may involve killing pigeons and displaying their  carcasses the use of recorded alarm calls is also ineffective in this species,  primarily because no true alarm call has been identified but also because when  alarmed the rock pigeon tends to sit tight on its perch.
rainwater collecting in discarded tyres is said to be one of the commonest breeding sites in south africa.
field mice are protected wild animals.
traps require a private area for operation and regular attention by  an experienced operator.
the front paws of  rodents leave tracks showing four toes, the rear paw tracks are elongated and  have five toes, and the tails leave short lines as marks burrows or holes burrows in the earth around buildings, or holes in the building foundations  of 100mm in diameter that were made or enlarged by rodents.
bright steely blue beetle, predator of the deathwatch beetle, and slightly smaller.
the use of netting in small sections requires relatively high numbers of fixing points and it has a life of five to ten years the heaviest gauge netting possible should be used and special attention paid to reinforcing it at edges or attachment points.
this disruption of drainage and the resultant water penetration is especially damaging in unoccupied buildings where problems are less likely to be detected before major damage has been done.
birds may also cause serious inconvenience  to building occupants as a result of noise, aggressive behaviour and fouling type of buildings
prevent the formation of condensation on cold pipes by installing  pipe insulation.
the bore  dust consists of gritty-feeling cream, sausage shaped pellets.
however, removal of shelter close to  buildings can help reduce the external population, and discourage attempts to  gain entry identifying a rodent problem the following signs, often evident before rodents are even seen, indicate  that rodents are present tooth marks and gnawing tooth marks from gnawing wood chips near baseboards or cabinets or  irregular losses, tears, or soiling of fabrics.
for the first few days, they are fed with 'pigeons' milk', a cheesy substance produced in the wall of the crop.
dried rat urine  stains may not be visible to the naked eye, but will fluoresce blue-white under  ultraviolet illumination.
they do no harm to sound materials, but the dark faecal matter can cause spoiling these are rarely found in buildings, except in areas of extreme and persistant damp.
this section covers the most common mammalian pests encountered in  buildings.
since it usually kills instantly, it is perhaps the most humane of all rodent control methods.
eliminate sources of drinking water by repairing leaky pipes and taps, and by covering open drains with heavy screens using 6mm galvanized wire mesh (16 to 19 gauge).
butterflies and moths butterflies do not damage buildings, but it must be borne in mind that some  species which hibernate in buildings are protected under the wildlife and  countryside act.
click on one of the headings below to go to the relevant headings on the detailed contents list: buildings provide warm, sheltered, and occasionally moist environment for a variety of living organisms.
removal of nest sites reduces reproduction but more  importantly obliges breeding birds to leave the area.
the next step is to identify the factors limiting the pigeon population, and those limiting the troublesome activities.
the natural diet of pigeons is one of seeds and grains but they easily learn to exploit a large range of processed vegetable and animal products.
the animals may be subsequently released at some distance from the building.
the feral pigeon stocks are derived from many different strains of escaped  ornamental, racing and domestic stocks but tend to revert to a wild type of  colouring and conformation these birds are well-adapted to survive in a modern city environment where  the tall buildings provide habitats very similar to the cliff homes of their  ancestors.
this species was domesticated by the ancient  egyptians and has spread all over the world in many different domestic strains.
however, adult mosquitoes frequently enter buildings, either in search  of victims, or in order to shelter, and fumigation or insecticide sprays may  then be useful.
the  the risk of their spreading should be taken into account in the design of  buildings and building services, particularly in areas where they are endemic.
however, the superior climbing abilities of the  black rat allow a degree of co-existence.
the bark beetle, 3 to 6mm long and light yellowish brown in colour, is  sometimes mistaken for the death-watch beetle.
they can also have an appreciable effect on the cost of renovation works and the time taken to complete a project
conifer trees to the north and deciduous trees to the south can help make a building warmer in winter and cooler in summer trees can draw large amounts of water from the ground around buildings.
the adults, because they feed on a wide range of food ranging from sugar to dung, are passive vectors of pathogens.
this is particularly so when large accumulations of filth build up inside a building they are commonly carriers of a number of serious human diseases including salmonellosis, psiticosis and pseudo-tuberculosis.
more infrequently, birds in their search for food, nesting materials or roosting or nesting sites, can also directly cause actual damage to the fabric of a building.
they are often  spread as a result of faecal contamination or contaminated water supply.
when specifying for new building or building refurbishment, it is  advisable: i) to make arrangements to assist access for inspections and ii) to  specify larger rainwater drainage gutters, downpipes etc than would otherwise  be strictly necessary plant growth, especially creepers, can cover up damp problems arising from  unrelated building defects such as leaking gutters, downpipes or cistern  overflow.
these may only be used by registered pest control officers carbon dioxide fumigation, in a sealed container, may be used to dispose of  animals caught alive in traps, which are not intended to be released.
apart from the general exclusion methods detailed  above, the following techniques may also be necessary metal cladding
bedbugs are not known to spread disease, but a minority  of people are very sensitive to their bites other bugs bat bugs, poultry bugs and swallow bugs may be introduced into buildings as  a result of the roosting or nesting activity of their hosts.
this represents a considerable waste of time and money, and may lead to the degradation and loss of valuable building features pigeon detritus and especially pigeon faeces represents both an aesthetic and a public health problem.
in either case provision should be made for clearing any debris that accumulates.
once the rats have become used to them, add poison to the bait, or set the trap springs.
often it will be necessary to dig out the soil first trimming.
weeds, and as much mortar as is practicable must be removed, and sources of water ingress such as leaking downpipes, defective coping, defective flashing or roofing, should be rectified.
the most common problems are caused not but the plants themselves, but by dead  leaves and other matter building up in rain and other drainage channels.
this means that the control techniques used are often inappropriate or misapplied with the result that they are ineffective.
in  winchester cathedral, an infestation followed after damp-related decay by  another fungus, phellinus megaloporus.
these can be effective when fresh.
fasten 400mm squares of sheet metal over small pipes and wires that run up walls.
eliminate sources of drinking water eliminate sources of drinking water by repairing leaky pipes and taps, and  by covering open drains with heavy screens using 6mm galvanized wire mesh (16  to 19 gauge).
rodents engage in gnawing to wear down their constantly growing incisor teeth, to gain access to food, and to make nests.
nests on houses  are usually on the roof, often between the chimney pots.
the communal roosting habit of starlings also creates problems.
three broods may be produced by a  pair each breeding season and individuals may live as long as thirty years survival in towns
clean spills  immediately and thoroughly.
building timber is not re-infected and apart from correct identification no  action needs to be taken in response to the adult beetle's emergence.
wingspan 15-22mm, bronze brown with dark brown or black flecks in the fore wings when the ambient conditions become less humid, the larvae are not destroyed.
plant in clear ground, well away from drainage pipes or other water-containing services which may be damaged by root action site preparation.
poisons will not prevent recurrence of the pest problem unless exclusion  methods are thoroughly carried out.
unlike climbing plants, herbaceous plants are not generally wanted in or on a building, let alone introduced there, by the building owner weeds are often a sign of other underlying building defects.
building users, on the other hand, tend to welcome plants in a building's environs.
most species have eyes, except those that parasitise nocturnal or subterranean species
as in all building remedial work the key factors are independent  investigation and advice, careful specification, competitive tendering, a  holistic approach, and continued monitoring [5] back to top?
the feral pigeon stocks are derived from many different strains of escaped ornamental, racing and domestic stocks but tend to revert to a wild type of colouring and conformation these birds are well-adapted to survive in a modern city environment where the tall buildings provide habitats very similar to the cliff homes of their ancestors.
this is because  pigeons are living organisms and are able to adapt over time and space to  circumvent most measures
the wooden churches of romania, sadly neglected during the communist era, have recently suffered severe damage from woodpeckers in search of wood boring insects.
outside the sapwood, the beetle only attacks wood which has been previously decayed by the fungus coniophora cerebella.
the bugs leave characteristic speckled brown or black deposits of  faecal matter around their hiding places control bedbugs and their eggs are killed by very high or low temperatures -
unlike climbing plants, herbaceous plants are  not generally wanted in or on a building, let alone introduced there, by the  building owner weeds are often a sign of other underlying building defects.
neglect, damp conditions and storage that is not moth-proof have  often led to the loss of irreplaceable material common clothes moth, tineola bisselliella pest of wool in warehouses and dwellings.
the flea  larva may act as the vector for the dog tapeworm cat flea, ctenocephalides felis affects mainly cats, but other animals, including man affected.
this will require appropriate budget provisions to  be made.
the larvae develop in animal dung.
ensure that doors and windows are tight-fitting and latched.
eliminate breeding sites mosquitos have a range of several kilometres, and have an extremely  sensitive sense of smell.
effective pest control programs emphasize preventative measures.
associated the world over with human habitation, the house fly creates great annoyance and some threat to health.
culex pipiens commonly seeks shelter in buildings, but rarely attacks humans.
the most important  of these factors is usually the availability of food sources.
their  maggots may appear after migrating from roof spaces etc, where they may have  been feeding on the carcases of pigeons, rats or other vermin greenbottles, lucilia spp like the bluebottle, these flies, only enter buildings in search of animal  matter on which to lay their eggs.
nesting activity is particularly dangerous in this respect as pigeons frequently nest in hopperheads and parapet gutters causing complete blockage in a very short time.
they are also the most cost  effective decoration available plants growing in the environs of a building benefit not just the users of  the building, but the whole community, and also wildlife.
wingspan 15-22mm, bronze brown with dark brown or black flecks in the fore wings when the ambient conditions become less humid, the larvae are not  destroyed.
the case is 6 to 9mm long and  the larva dies if separated from the case tapestry moth, trichophaga tapetzella mottled black and white, wingspan less than 12mm, only rarely found in  dwellings.
apart from the  soiling of the building fabric by excrement, fouling and blockage of gutters,  during the breeding season, the birds tend to attack anyone approaching the  nesting sites thus rendering maintenance impossible.
an infestation resembles that caused by  the woodworm beetle.
bedbugs in the daytime hide in cracks in buildings and furniture and emerge at night time to find a human or animal host.
originating in northern europe, the beetle is now distributed worldwide.
however, it would appear that the owner has an additional duty to observe and care for the trees - it is not enough merely to 'hire an expert to cover one's back'.
the following precautions will  discourage entry of rodents and other small animals into a building.
bait shyness develops rapidly, and even with warfarin-type baits, it is difficult to persuade the animals to eat enough over a period to be lethal suitable baits for mice include fruit, cake, peanut butter, seeds, sugar candy, gum drops and oatmeal the snap trap, also called the guillotine, spring or break-back trap) is cheap, effective and widely available.
malaria is rare in britain and is mainly seen in  people recently arrived from overseas, but was endemic in east anglia and  elsewhere until the 17th century.
indicates the presence of deathwatch infestations, and may also be used for biological control.
however, the most resented nuisance is caused by faeces.
keep garbage in an enclosed area away from the building.
ideally, traps should be secured in place to prevent them from being dragged away by a trapped animal.
consequently, mice are much easier to trap than rats, even with  unbaited traps, but they are much more difficult to poison.
ensure that gutters and downpipes are firmly fixed and adequately sized.
dealing with such accumulations can be expensive and time consuming  because of the protective equipment and procedures that may be required pigeon control: reducing bird populations many techniques have been used for controlling pigeons around buildings all  of which have advantages and disadvantages [4].
however, the landowner is not liable if the animals are poisoned as a result of straying or stretching into the land - unless the landowner has a responsibility to maintain the fences, and the poisoning was the result of the landowner's failure to do so.
this activity can allow significant  water penetration into the building and subsequent decay.
such rootstocks are difficult to remove by mechanical means.
this may also be a particular problem during building works and renovation pigeon faeces represent a health and safety hazard for employees who have to remove them or work in their vicinity.
the most important factor in pigeon survival is the active promotion of  their population by man, for recreational and emotional reasons.
goals should then be set  that are acceptable and achievable within the resources available.
clean spills immediately and thoroughly.
the following precautions will discourage entry of rodents and other small animals into a building.
it lays its eggs only  under the bark of newly felled oak, chestnut or other hardwood.
the most common is drumming, which male birds indulge in to define territories and as part of the courtship ritual.
apart from timber decay organisms, the main problems caused by bacteria and fungi in buildings are related to the health of the occupants see timber decay document.
plant growth, whether deliberate or accidental, can in some  circumstances protect buildings, and in other circumstances damage them the presence of plants can reduce the rate of drying, block ventilation  holes, further the accumulation of debris, lead to the raising of external  ground levels, and provide protection and cover for animal pests of all types.
targets are chosen for their resonant characteristics rather than their insect content, and include shingles, cladding, eaves and even aerial masts and downpipes.
application of single techniques is at best inefficient and is often ineffective.
is descended from the wild rock dove  which inhabits both inland and sea cliffs around the mediterranean and along  the west coast of europe
in most cases a percentage reduction in pigeon numbers  or the control of a particularly damaging activity is all that is required.
it is then  important to monitor the effect of any measures taken and to take further  actions as necessary.
if the building owner feels that the aesthetic benefit justifies the physical disadvantages, the following management steps must be taken: check the building detailing.
a weed has been defined as a plant growing where it is not wanted.
apart from the effect on drainage, the nests become particularly  insanitary as the chicks hatch.
they may be  unaesthetic and hazardous for those working on the treated surfaces investigation of pigeon problems the control of pigeons and pigeon related problems requires the coordinated  application of a combination of measures and attention to detail.
the fact that damp problems go unnoticed, and hence uncorrected, is  arguably the most serious of the potential problems caused by creeper growth on  buildings plant growth involves the transport of substantial quantities of water up  from the roots to the leaves, where the water evaporates.
some of the more common techniques currently employed are listed below when considering control options it is useful to distinguish those that reduce pigeon numbers in an area or merely modify their behaviour
food poisoning organisms such as salmonella may be spread via rat faeices and urine.
plants, especially trees, growing  in the vicinity of buildings may also have adverse effects disturbance of  ground water by trees, fire risk, lightning hazards and physical damage,  especially in relation to storm damage plant growth over boundaries landowners are obliged to cut back plant growth where it interferes with  the safe passage of vehicles or pedestrians when plants are growing over neighbouring properties, the owners of the  neighbouring properties are entitled to cut back the plants at the boundary  line, regardless of whether (in the case of trees) this is compatible with good  arboricultural practice landowners are responsible for any damage caused by plants growing within  their property, eg trees falling onto neighbouring highways or properties poisonous plants where the public has right of access, or a poisonous plant grows over the  boundary, landowners are responsible for its effects.
it is reddish in colour and about 3mm long, and like the woodworm beetle, it causes damage to dry wood.
this may be because of disturbance caused by calling or nesting activity in the early hours, by spreading of fleas and other parasites into inhabited buildings and by pestering for food.
these techniques are also unacceptable around occupied buildings due  to the disturbance and nuisance they cause to people bird nets fine, standard large mesh plastic nets are used to exclude pigeons from  areas of a building.
use field guides to aid this identification.
a rat, on finding food to its taste, will gorge itself until either it can eat no more, or the food is exhausted.
many fur-bearing mammals are protected, but  this does not necessarily exclude the possibility of trapping or destruction if  they are a persistent threat to a property.
this alarms other birds in the flock and they  will avoid the location in the future.
building timber is not re-infected and apart from correct identification no action needs to be taken in response to the adult beetle's emergence.
this is the most successful long-term measure for controlling absolute numbers of pigeons in an area.
since the same roosts may be used for months at a time, large amounts of faeces may build up, and the noise, from late afternoon until well after nightfall, may be intolerable control may be achieved by spasmodic scaring of the roosting birds, preventing access or even using repellent chemicals
thus a large (a=3 points) oak tree (g=1 point), life expectancy 200+ years (b=4 points), forms an important part (c=3 points) of an avenue (d=3 points) in a country house park (e=4 points).
poisons will not prevent recurrence of the pest problem unless exclusion methods are thoroughly carried out.
the appearance of a many a grim structure has  been improved by the growth of flowering plants or creepers, but if plant  growth is permitted at all, it must be very carefully managed, and its effects  carefully monitored climbing plants and moisture opinions differ over the effect of climbing plants on the moisture balance  of buildings.
birth control and removal of nest sites baits impregnated with birth control agents can be used but have limited  uses as decreases in reproduction are made up by increased recruitment of birds  from other areas.
if rodents are gnawing at wooden doors or window frames, apply sheet metal cladding as a deterrent prevention of climbing place large sheet metal cones (300mm long and 450mm in diameter) on exterior pipes and poles at a height of 2.5 metres to prevent the animals jumping past the cones and climbing up to points of access.
if rodents are gnawing at wooden doors or window frames, apply sheet metal  cladding as a deterrent prevention of climbing place large sheet metal cones (300mm long and 450mm in diameter) on  exterior pipes and poles at a height of 2.5 metres to prevent the animals  jumping past the cones and climbing up to points of access.
climbing plants most types of climbing plants can use a building for support often this has  a decorative effect so that the plant growth may have been welcomed or even  initiated by the building owner.
the adults, because they feed on a  wide range of food ranging from sugar to dung, are passive vectors of  pathogens.
it is important to identify which of the pigeons activities are causing the identified problems, for example, nesting activity causing blocked drains, or roosting causing faecal contamination
as in all building remedial work the key factors are independent investigation and advice, careful specification, competitive tendering, a holistic approach, and continued monitoring [5] back to top?
in heavy or driven rain, vegetation does not prevent water penetration, but it can in principle impede water run-off, and by cutting out sunlight and impeding air circulation, vegetation can slow the drying off process when the rain has stopped.
creepers may also be blown off in a storm, causing damage in their fall, or bringing with them items such as gutters or downpipes damage to surfaces.
prevention of infestations should be approached  from three angles discouragement of entry into buildings, prevention of access  to food and water, and destruction of animals which do gain entry.
plant growth may cover up ventilation channels, especially air bricks and  vents for under-floor spaces and roof voids, especially at the eaves.
the use of netting in small sections  requires relatively high numbers of fixing points and it has a life of five to  ten years the heaviest gauge netting possible should be used and special attention  paid to reinforcing it at edges or attachment points.
the brown rat is larger, more  heavily built and agressive than the black rat and has consequently ousted the  black rat from most habitats.
wingspan 12-22mm, wings grey with dark patches and white  'shoulders' brown house moth, hofmannophila pseudospretella scavenger feeding on grain or other vegetable debris, but requiring damp  conditions for development.
they may be used in large sections to wall off whole areas or in small strips to prevent pigeon access to individual features.
apart from the general exclusion methods detailed above, the following techniques may also be necessary metal cladding
eggs and immature bugs die off after 30 to 60 days below 9 degrees celsius, but adults are not much affected, although largely dormant.
before considering planting, bear in mind that ground levels must be at least 150mm below dpc level, and that dpc bridging by plant stems, soil or debris must be avoided.
mosquito larvae, when disturbed, move in a characteristic  jerking, curling movement.
soil near buildings is seldom at its  most fertile, and it may be necessary to import humus to enable healthy plant  growth.
aquatic larvae the larval stages of mosquitoes develop in stagnant water and live by  filtering micro-organisms living in the water.
damage is caused by the  transport of nesting materials which can block spouts, gutters and downpipes,  pose a fire risk and cause fouling of tanks and cisterns tits tits have been reported to peck away putty on freshly glazed windows.
the leaves and stems of evergreen creepers such as ivy can burn  fiercely, and enable a fire to be carried on the outside of a building to areas  that might otherwise be unaffected by the fire.
this evaluation has little or no relation to the commercial value of the tree for its timber
rainwater collecting in discarded tyres is said to be one of the commonest  breeding sites in south africa.
weevil infestations are a consequence of fungal infection and like fungal infections they are eradicated by drying out and ventilation.
nests have also been reported on the flat roofs and even window sills of warehouses.
museums are notoriously short of money for capital expenditure and repairs and may as a consequence be damp and unheated.
it is extremely poisonous with a ld50 dose of 15 mg/kg for rats, considerably less for dogs.
paint is particularly vulnerable and may be stripped off by contact with ivy interference with drainage.
even in the hottest,  dryest weather, the building is surrounded by a cool, damp envelope.
however they are expensive and loose their effect after a year or so.
climb the outside of vertical pipes and conduits up to 75mm in diameter climb the outside of vertical pipes of any size if the pipe is within 75mm of a wall or other continuous support for the rodent crawl horizontally on any type of pipe or conduit jump vertically as much as 1 m from a flat surface jump horizontally 1.2 m on a flat surface jump horizontally at least 2.4 m from an elevation of 4.5 m drop 15 m without being killed or seriously injured burrow vertically in earth to a depth of 1.25 m climb brick or other rough exterior walls which offer footholds to gain access to upper storeys of structures climb vines, shrubs and trees, or travel along telephone or power lines to gain access to upper storeys of buildings reach as much as 330mm along smooth, vertical walls swim as far as 0.8 km in open water dive through water plumbing traps and travel in sewer lines even against substantial water currents gnaw through a wide variety of materials, including lead sheeting, lime mortar, aerated concrete blocks and aluminium sheeting capabilities of mice mice are able to jump to heights of 800mm jump gaps of 1.5m
when rats and mice are eliminated from building, their fleas can often, out of hunger, attack man.
creepers provide cover for all manner of animals which may cause a  nuisance in buildings - flies, wasps and other insects, sites for birds to nest  and roost, and parasites associated with this, and lead to periodic invasions  of normally harmless creatures such as spiders.
keep a record of places where traps are laid in order  to prevent their being accidentally tripped.
a number of adhesive gels are available which are intended to be spread on surfaces so as to make it unpleasant for the birds to perch.
they can keep this up for hours bluebottles, recognisable by their large size (8 to 14mm), bluish tinge and bristly bodies, only enter buildings in order to lay their eggs on meat.
destruction of larvae by insecticides is not recommended as relatively large amounts of insecticide are needed to obtain a lethal concentration.
one species of snail, has been observed to gouge tracks on the surface of calcareous surfaces, such as lime plaster these are agents of disease for both man and his animals.
exclusion methods must not interfere with normal ventilation of buildings.
no antidote exists, and it is readily absorbed through cuts and abrasions, so great emphasis must be placed on safe handling and storage.
though they are actively fed and encouraged by many members of the public,  pigeons represent a public nuisance as well as a health hazard.
mammalian pests effective pest control programs emphasize preventative measures.
although rarely seen far from human  habitation, starlings were not noted in towns prior to 1900.
except in rapidly expanding populations (where white and black individuals are common), the brown rat is almost universally brown, with a paler underside.
they may be unaesthetic and hazardous for those working on the treated surfaces the control of pigeons and pigeon related problems requires the coordinated application of a combination of measures and attention to detail.
the larvae of several species of moth may damage building contents.
this was largely - but not entirely, on account of the greater average age of protected trees 1.
the following factors are used to make the analysis: to calculate the 'amenity value' of a tree, multiply all the points awarded to it together and then multiply the result by a conversion factor.
however, weevil  infestation increases the structural damage caused by the fungus.
this may be  because of disturbance caused by calling or nesting activity in the early  hours, by spreading of fleas and other parasites into inhabited buildings and  by pestering for food.
traps and baits  should be laid on well used runs.
the effect of current and previous pigeon control measures should be noted.
their numbers have been increasing throughout most  of this century, although a recent decline has been reported.
trapping has the advantage that it prevents  the rodent from dying in an inaccessible location where it will produce a foul  smell and attract insect pests.
it therefore has an 'amenity value' of œ10 x 3 x 1 x 4 x 3 x 3 x 4 x 2 =
when rats and mice are eliminated from  building, their fleas can often, out of hunger, attack man.
for example, the positioning of wires can be critical and a single faulty attachment point in a net system can make it useless the side effects of each protection technique on other aspects of the performance of the building must be carefully dealt with.
often the most significant problems are not immediately obvious and those which may be causing most management disquiet may in reality be trivial.
however, moss growth in particular may have a number of undesirable consequences: older classifications place fungi and bacteria in the plant kingdom, but they are now generally regarded as two separate kindoms, separate from both plants and animals.
colour is generally black to reduce decay of the plastic by ultra violet sunlight
vitamin k acts as  an antidote to anticoagulant poisons.
the  register has no statutory effect, but local authorities are said to give 'a  fair degree' of weight to it sites of special scientific interest may be declared around existing or  proposed buildings.
the use of many pest control chemicals is restricted, and the service of a professional pest control firm is required for their application.
when threatened by a raptor, pigeons tend to cower into their roosts rather than fly away.
live trapping is possible the animals may subsequently be released at some distance from the building, or killed by fumigation rats are inquisitive they are also creatures of habit.
after recommendations are made to the local planning authority and the secretary of state, the site is given special protection against any activity that could harm or destroy the item of interest.
more infrequently, birds in their search for food,  nesting materials or roosting or nesting sites, can also directly cause actual  damage to the fabric of a building.
ptinus tectus ptinus tectus is said to have originated in tasmania, but has now spread  worldwide, particularly in the colder regions.
more significantly they will disturb the birds in those areas where they  hunt, preventing roosting, resting and nesting.
if carried out regularly at the time birds are settling for the night it will prevent a roost being established at that location.
they work by producing a stimulus that is perceived as frightening or noxious by the pigeons.
warfarin resistant strains of rats have  been reported, so higher dose baits may sometimes be needed.
these bugs occasionally bite humans.
alternatively the availability of sheltered roosting sites may be crucial it is essential to identify factors which can be controlled in a cost-effective manner.
able to eat a wide variety of animal and plant material, it  wreaks havoc, particularly in museums.
appropriate reinforcement may involve killing pigeons and displaying their carcasses the use of recorded alarm calls is also ineffective in this species, primarily because no true alarm call has been identified but also because when alarmed the rock pigeon tends to sit tight on its perch.
the eggs hatch into 'rat tail maggots' which suspend  themselves from the water surface by means of a breathing tube attached to the  posterior part of the abdomen.
domesticated carnivores such as mink, ferrets or cats will kill individual  birds.
any temporary ponding may be  used for breeding; bottles, cans, gutters, rainwater butts, old tyres etc.
these can be  effective when fresh.
infestation indicated by perfectly circular flight holes and by circular bun shaped pellets of wood dust.
this should include mapping of pigeon numbers and activity around  the building through a 24 hour period, assessing critical factors such as  feeding sites, roosting sites, nesting sites and loafing areas the factors  limiting pigeon population in the area should be assessed.
instead they enter a dormant phase, and can stay like this for weeks  until suitable conditions arise again.
many fur-bearing mammals are protected, but this does not necessarily exclude the possibility of trapping or destruction if they are a persistent threat to a property.
the black rat varies in colour from tawny yellow to black mice are found in perhaps the majority of homes around the world, in addition to food stores, agricultural land etc.
it is widely distributed throughout britain pentarthrum huttoni is an indigenous species and widespread in britain and ireland.
instead they enter a dormant phase, and can stay like this for weeks until suitable conditions arise again.
the larvae, when fully fed, burrow in soil for up to 50m to find a cool dry place to pupate.
wingspan 12-22mm, wings grey with dark patches and white 'shoulders' scavenger feeding on grain or other vegetable debris, but requiring damp conditions for development.
eggs 1mm diameter, white found attached to wool or fur.
this is based on a combination of measurable factors, such as girth, and subjective factors such as suitability for setting.
again provision of  adequate access and equipment is very important.
mice, however, nibble,  rarely taking more than a few mouthfuls at a time from each source of food.
larvae at rest in water lie with their bodies  parallel to the surface.
as a consequence of the large dose which may be ingested, a relatively small amount of poisoned rodent eaten by a much larger scavenger (eg a dog), can prove fatal carcases of animals killed by these poisons must be incinerated or securely buried no antidote exists for acute poisons, eg fluoroacetamide.
the control of feral pigeons is a management problem which requires the continuous application of a number of measures over a period of time.
if regular inspection of traps or baits is  possible, unpoisoned bait or unsprung traps should be first laid.
weeds may grow from seed in damp masonry, in accumulated debris in gutters, and other areas where ponding has occurred, such as flat roofs, and in yards and other exterior areas.
originating in the middle east, the bedbug is now found around the world.
after pupating, the adult beetle tunnels to the surface, making a flight hole 2mm in diameter.
no antidote exists, and it is readily  absorbed through cuts and abrasions, so great emphasis must be placed on safe  handling and storage.
may occur in large numbers in warehouses, but also in houses where it may damage clothes, furnishings and cork floor inlays.
shelving and cabinets should be mounted a minimum of 10 cm off the floor to allow for thorough cleaning and inspection and to discourage pests from residing there prevent entry by climbing cut back any overhanging branches to beyond 3 metres from the building, and remove any climbing plants which animals could use to gain access at upper levels deter animals from living close to a building dig up, disturb or remove nesting sites, burrows and hiding places.
damage may include: physical damage may include: fire risk.
the birds also cause noise  nuisance, particularly in the early morning sparrows passer domesticus, the house sparrow, is widely distributed and  lives in close association with human activities.
they  can also have an appreciable effect on the cost of renovation works and the  time taken to complete a project
a rat, on finding food to its taste, will gorge itself until  either it can eat no more, or the food is exhausted.
eliminate from around buildings all undergrowth and debris, which can provide  protective cover refuse management keep all refuse, especially food matter and material suitable for nesting,  in secure, rodent-proof containers.
there are two british species of woodpecker, the greater spotted and the  lesser spotted.
attacking damp,  partially decayed timber (usually involving coniophora cerebella), the larvae  burrow for about six months in the wood, before pupating.
the adults can be a pest in buildings when they hibernate in large numbers in roof voids, walls and other spaces.
unable to survive above 28  degrees celcius, it remains active down to 2 degrees.
such 'one off' measures applying a single technique with no reference to other factors are often doomed to failure.
the results of water penetration are also more serious as there may already be serious damp and decay problems in the buildings.
cattle pest which feeds on secretions from the eyes, nose and mouth of cattle, as well as any sweat or blood from wounds or scratches.
in addition the overall pigeon problem in the area should be assessed annually as part of the building management programme in order to assess the efficiency of the programme.
it has not been shown to  spread any particular disease, but its habits are similar to those of the  common house fly, and it must therefore be regarded as a health hazard.
because many recommended pesticides are, to varying degrees, toxic to man and to wild and domestic animals, caution must be exercised in their use, and the manufacturers' directions must be closely followed.
any detritus should be  cleaned off the structure and any defects should be repaired as necessary.
creepers on the surface of a building marginally increase its wind resistance, and thus the likelihood of damage in a storm.
mice, however, nibble, rarely taking more than a few mouthfuls at a time from each source of food.
culicine mosquitoes culicine mosquitoes are represented in britain by culex pipiens and theobaldia annulata.
further problems might be expected if the pigeons are allowed to occupy  scaffolding to be erected around a building diseases spread by pigeons the presence of feral pigeons and most especially their faeces represents a  potential health hazard to employees and to the general public.
plant growth and buildings
there is a tendency in the building industry to regard plants, and  particularly trees, with suspicion, if not outright hostility.
common throughout europe and the middle east, this insect is not much seen in britain.
their maggots may appear after migrating from roof spaces etc, where they may have been feeding on the carcases of pigeons, rats or other vermin like the bluebottle, these flies, only enter buildings in search of animal matter on which to lay their eggs.
responsibility for aspects of the control of the pigeon problem must be specifically included in the programmes for the management of the cleaning and maintenance of the building.
these marks are only visible in high traffic areas, or around holes etc, where the animals have had to squeeze against a surface to pass nests of shredded material nests made from shredded material, such as paper or textiles.
local authorites have been held responsible for deaths by poisoning as a result of children eating the berries of poisonous plants growing in parks and botanic gardens.
they are attracted by warmth, avoid light, and are intensely sensitive to vibrations.
weeds a weed has been defined as a plant growing where it is not wanted.
indicates the presence of deathwatch infestations, and may also be  used for biological control.
however, in rural and semi-rural areas, the flies enter buildings and building spaces in huge numbers at night, and in the autumn to hibernate.
mosquitoes of this group do not appear to transmit disease in britain, but in  the tropics they are vectors for yellow fever, dengue fever and filariasis.
if  vegetation is to be permitted, these ventilation channels must be regularly  checked and cleaned deciduous, and to a lesser extent evergreen creepers can deposit large  quantities of dead leaves, petals or even fruiting bodies into rain and other  drainage channels, leading to their blockage and subsequent water ingress into  the building.
when fully developed, the larva spins a cocoon to which stick fine dust particles, thus concealing it.
the results of the investigation of pigeon ecology around the problems building should be analysed in detail.
for example, the positioning of wires can be  critical and a single faulty attachment point in a net system can make it  useless the side effects of each protection technique on other aspects of the  performance of the building must be carefully dealt with.
flies mosquitoes there are two groups of mosquitoes, culcicine and anopheline, the larval  stages of both are spent in stagnant water.
note: details of all suspected outbreaks of house longhorn beetle should be reported to the building research establishment's timber and protection division, princes risborough, bucks, where records are maintained of all infestations in britain.
because of the possibility of disease, do not handle rodent droppings directly wear gloves or use a dustpan urine droplets urine deposited as small dribbles or as a line of droplets.
oak longhorn beetle, phymatodes testaceus
moss falling off roofs can build up in  gutters and block spouts and downpipes encouraging other plant growth.
although  some of these are quite effective they suffer from a number of problems sharp  steel spikes are very dangerous to maintenance personnel, litter may become  caught on the spikes, build-up of faeces makes them ineffective, their  appearance may be unattractive, they are relatively expensive and they may  require more fixing points than nets or wires repellent gels a number of adhesive gels are available which are intended to be spread on  surfaces so as to make it unpleasant for the birds to perch.
their faeces provide an ideal environment for the growth of the organisms causing such diseases as histoplasmosis, aspergillosis, cryptococcis and listeriosis.
quinn v scott, 1965 highway authorities may require owners to cut back trees or shrubs which grows over the highway, thus causing danger to or impeding the passage of vehicles or pedestrians.
take care when setting traps - traps,  particularly those for rats, can break a finger if accidentally tripped anticoagulant poisons anticoagulant poisons, the best known of which is warfarin, cause the  animal to die of anaemia after prolonged internal bleeding.
if vegetation is to be permitted, these ventilation channels must be regularly checked and cleaned deciduous, and to a lesser extent evergreen creepers can deposit large quantities of dead leaves, petals or even fruiting bodies into rain and other drainage channels, leading to their blockage and subsequent water ingress into the building.
damage is caused by the transport of nesting materials which can block spouts, gutters and downpipes, pose a fire risk and cause fouling of tanks and cisterns tits have been reported to peck away putty on freshly glazed windows.
however, the landowner  is not liable if the animals are poisoned as a result of straying or stretching  into the land - unless the landowner has a responsibility to maintain the  fences, and the poisoning was the result of the landowner's failure to do so.
as a last resort, pouring oil onto the water surface is said to block the larval breathing tube, and prevent them from adhering to the water surface.
they have little ability to prevent water loss from their bodies, so they must of necessity frequent damp places, where they feed on fungi and decaying vegetable matter.
2  hours at -17 degrees celsius or 1 hour at 45 degress celsius.
extreme care must be taken to ensure that the carcases of poisoned rats  are either removed and buried or burned, or else that they are completely  inaccessible where they die, otherwise dogs, cats, pigs and wildlife may also  be poisoned suitable baits for rats include bacon, raw or cooked meat, fish, peanut  butter, fresh bread and oatmeal mouse baits and poisons mice are much less sociable animals than rats, and their feeding habits are  very different.
trees are sometimes regarded as a nuisance near buildings.
they have also been reported to cause minor damage to interior finishes and building contents starlings are middle sized, sociable, aggressive birds recognisable by their jerky walk and iridescent plumage.
when specifying for new building or building refurbishment, it is advisable: i) to make arrangements to assist access for inspections and ii) to specify larger rainwater drainage gutters, downpipes etc than would otherwise be strictly necessary plant growth, especially creepers, can cover up damp problems arising from unrelated building defects such as leaking gutters, downpipes or cistern overflow.
the trust had employed experts to look at the trees, but some thinness of foliage and dieback had not been noticed 1.
the  larval stages are smaller and more translucent versions of the adult.
the provision of adequate access facilities and safety points for clearing pigeon affected areas is also important
the bugs leave characteristic speckled brown or black deposits of faecal matter around their hiding places bedbugs and their eggs are killed by very high or low temperatures - 2 hours at -17 degrees celsius or 1 hour at 45 degress celsius.
in large areas and in exposed locations the net should be reinforced with stainless steel wire stainless steel wire may be mounted on thin stainless steel brackets via short springs of the same material.
apart from the soiling of the building fabric by excrement, fouling and blockage of gutters, during the breeding season, the birds tend to attack anyone approaching the nesting sites thus rendering maintenance impossible.
spider beetles, ptinus spp voracious and omnivorous, these beetles have long spindly legs and a  constriction in the thorax, giving them a superficial resemblance to spiders.
larval activity may occasionally be audible as a scraping sound.
the proportion of sick and out of condition birds in the population and the general condition of the birds should be determined.
this means they require regular replacement and are uneconomical in  most cases.
in general, methods of reducing pigeon populations available to the owner of an individual building in an urban area are unlikely to be effective, and even less likely to be acceptable bird scarers may be visual, audio, mechanical or a combination [2].
it is therefore prudent to follow rodent eradication procedures with insecticidal sprays such as pyrethrins fleas are responsible for the transmission of a number of diseases, most notably plague and typhus occurs throughout the world.
for example, if a neighbour's animals are poisoned by eating yew growing on or over the boundary, the the landowner is responsible for the consequences.
not entirely surprisingly, the issue is contentious trees growing close to buildings can have beneficial effects: trees growing close to buildings can have harmful effects: landowners are responsible for the safety of the trees growing on their land.
these animals may also carry diseases that can infect man through bites or by  contact with hair, excreta, or parasites, such as fleas, lice, and mites natural history of rodents two types of rat are found in britain, the black rat, rattus rattus, and  the brown or norway rat, rattus norvegicus.
building users,  on the other hand, tend to welcome plants in a building's environs.
it is important to identify which of the  pigeons activities are causing the identified problems, for example, nesting  activity causing blocked drains, or roosting causing faecal contamination analysis of data
3.5 to 4mm long, the  beetle is a dull reddish colour.
simple statistical techniques and graphic  representation of the can be especially useful for this purpose.
what is required therefore is a careful assessment of the pigeon problem, the ecological factors favouring the pigeons and those factors that could be most cost effectively controlled.
neither school of  thought appears to be supported by actual measurements.
however, such subsequentrelease is not permitted for introduced species such as  the grey squirrel.
vitamin k acts as an antidote to anticoagulant poisons.
weight  up to 25 grams colour brownish-grey with grey belly nose pointed ears large  tail longer than body dark in colour reproduction sexually mature in 5 to 12  weeks capable of a litter every 3.5 weeks to 4 weeks, and up to 60 young per  year food omnivorous but prefer cereals droppings 6 mm long narrow range  worldwide habitat individuals usually range less than 12 metres from nest; can  pass through 10mm (3/8") hole enter buildings in fall for shelter during  winter inhabit enclosed spaces such as wall cavities burrow 20 cm deep  excellent climbers, good swimmers, and can jump 30 cm field mice (several species)
invertebrates other than the arthropoda cause little damage to buildings, although some may pose a health risk to occupants
sounds will be heard mainly at night unless the rodent colony is overpopulated odour rats have little odour unless the population is large or well established.
voracious and omnivorous, these beetles have long spindly legs and a constriction in the thorax, giving them a superficial resemblance to spiders.
acts  as a vector of plague in africa tropical or oriental flea, xenopsylla cheopsis the most effective vector of plague, this flea is mainly tropical in  distribution and is only rarely found in britain.
they can keep this up for  hours bluebottles, calliphora vomitoria bluebottles, recognisable by their large size (8 to 14mm), bluish tinge and  bristly bodies, only enter buildings in order to lay their eggs on meat.
they may be deterred from climbing trees or walls by placing a 2 feet wide metal band around the tree or on the wall, about 3 to 4 feet above ground.
this is particularly so when pigeons obtain access  to the interior of a building.
deciduous creepers may build up  dead leaves, birds' nests and other debris, with much the same effect storm damage.
debris may build up  as a result of bird action, and moss and other matter falling off roofs.
plant growth may cover up ventilation channels, especially air bricks and vents for under-floor spaces and roof voids, especially at the eaves.
such wiring is unobtrusive, is easily removed and replaced for maintenance work, and has a life of at least ten years several different systems of stainless steel or plastic spikes are available for fitting to buildings to discourage pigeons from landing.
the shoots of creepers can displace  slates, coping stones, bricks and other elements, causing water penetration  through roofs, water penetration into walls, and in extreme cases, creating a  risk of masonry elements falling off problems with lofts.
debris may build up as a result of bird action, and moss and other matter falling off roofs.
outside the sapwood, the beetle only attacks  wood which has been previously decayed by the fungus coniophora cerebella.
they are also  very useful in demonstrating the problems to the property owner or manager.
the early definition of acceptable limits to pigeon activity will also prevent the over-use of particular techniques where the law of diminishing returns can result in wasted resources and defaced buildings a combination of specialist techniques should be chosen taking into account their costs and limitations care and attention to detail in specification and application are essential, or even the most suitable techniques or product will be inefficient or ineffective.
the use of many pest  control chemicals is restricted, and the service of a professional pest control  firm is required for their application.
in >, a boy was injured as a result of the collapse of a tree on which he was climbing in >, the bough of a tree overhanging a road fell and damaged a motor coach.
the larvae develop in decaying foodstuffs, preferably in warm places  up to a temperature of 50 degrees celsius.
this is not an insignificant problem  as tens or even hundreds of thousands of pounds can be spent on pigeon related  contracts without proper independent advice or specification and without proper  competitive tendering.
traps should be placed near holes or runways, or at sites of previous damage.
they are attracted by warmth, avoid light, and are  intensely sensitive to vibrations.
deathwatch beetle, xestobium rufovillosum reddish brown, 8 to 10 mm long, with patches of short stiff yellow hairs.
dried rat urine stains may not be visible to the naked eye, but will fluoresce blue-white under ultraviolet illumination.
take care when setting traps - traps, particularly those for rats, can break a finger if accidentally tripped anticoagulant poisons, the best known of which is warfarin, cause the animal to die of anaemia after prolonged internal bleeding.
if they are present, long acting herbicides should be used.
any tree which fails to score on any of the first five value factors is given a total amenity value of zero.
however, it has been suggested that so-called 'super-rats' are not so much resistant as wise to warfarin baits wild and domestic animals are unlikely to be harmed as a result of eating a single rat poisoned by warfarin.
similar to the common house fly, but smaller, this fly is very common throughout europe.
often has dust from emergence hole sticking to it, obscuring red-brown colour.
under the poisons rules 1970, its use in britain is restricted to sewers, drains, docks and some other areas where human access is controlled other acute poisons include strychnine, phosphorus paste, zinc phosphate and sodium fluoroacetate it is essential when laying baits with this type of poison that sufficient is eaten by the animal to kill it outright, otherwise bait shyness develops.
unlike tpo provisions, planning rules can enforce the planting of new trees, or the replacement of trees felled for whatever reason there clearly comes a point when a seedling or a sapling becomes a tree, but this point was not defined in the tpo legislation.
before dealing with an unfamiliar animal, check local and  national regulations on its status.
inspect the tracking powder with a raking light to enhance the visibility of the tracks.
even in the hottest, dryest weather, the building is surrounded by a cool, damp envelope.
emerges from  infected timber from july to october.
birds may also cause serious inconvenience to building occupants as a result of noise, aggressive behaviour and fouling
however, it is an effective method of scaring the birds away  from a location.
the provision of adequate access facilities and  safety points for clearing pigeon affected areas is also important routine inspection and cleaning
mice often enter buildings in  autumn to overwinter, and constitute a common rodent problem brown rat, rattus norvegicus brown rat, rattus norvegicus (norway, common, sewer, wharf or house rat)
while  plants can damage buildings, or more often, exacerbate the effects of building  defects or poor maintenance, they can also protect.
clean clothes are much less likely to be attacked than worn clothes pest of wool, hair, feather pillows and stored dried food or vegetable drugs.
fumigants may also damage building contents animals trapped in their burrows, or inhabiting air-tight buildings may be  killed with fumigants such as methyl bromide, chloropicrin or calcium cyanide.
as the plant grows, ground levels around it will tend to rise, for which allowance must be made.
the  larvae usually spin tubes of silk in which they live infestations may be counteracted by washing, dry cleaning, ironing or  airing woollen clothes before storing them in sealed units, and using  proprietary anti-moth compounds.
the early definition of  acceptable limits to pigeon activity will also prevent the over-use of  particular techniques where the law of diminishing returns can result in wasted  resources and defaced buildings specialised control and exclusion techniques a combination of specialist techniques should be chosen taking into account  their costs and limitations care and attention to detail in specification and  application are essential, or even the most suitable techniques or product will  be inefficient or ineffective.
ants, spiders, false scorpions and assasin bugs are enthusiastic  predators of bedbugs.