however, 70% of the bottled water sold in the u.s. is packaged and sold in the same state, making it exempt from this federal regulation.
filed under faq, utilities
- home - a to z - news - projects - arkansas river whitewater park and greenway - community services complex - comprehensive plan - galleries water tank - hot springs aquatic center - hot springs source development - milk run trail - natural resource center - sackett avenue - safe routes to school - salida mountain trails - touber building exterior rehabilitation - unique theater - wastewater treatment plant upgrade - water rate study - city government - city council - elected officials - mayor - boards and commissions - board of adjustment - board of appeals - historic preservation commission - planning commission - recreation advisory board - regional planning commission - steamplant commission - tree board - departments - administration & general government - community development - fire department - municipal court - police - public works - recreation and aquatic center - salida utilities - steamplant event center - water and wastewater treatment departments - about is bottled water better than tap water?
however,  70% of the bottled water sold in the u.s. is packaged and sold in the same  state, making it exempt from this federal regulation.
posted on july 9, 2010 tap water is subject to stricter federal standards and testing.
is bottled water better than tap water?
water and wastewater treatment departments about browse: home / 2010 / july / is bottled water better than  tap water?
city hall tel: 719-539-4555 fax: 719-539-5271 facilities, addresses and hours | staff directory city of salida browse: home / 2010 / july / is bottled water better than tap water?
water used  for bottling is required to be analyzed for bacteria only once a week.
filed under faq, utilities « previous next » resources - municipal code city code and ordinances - meeting calendar official meetings and events - permits & licenses check whether a permit is required - document library meeting agendas, minutes, packets, forms, reports and other documents - salida utilities information for water and sewer customers quick links - building and construction - code red registration/reverse 911 - doing business in salida - events in salida - sales tax collections report - lodging occupation tax form - area map apply for - job with the city of salida - boards and commissions - community support grant - liquor license - peddler's permit how to pay for - utility bill - tap fees - parking ticket or other citation - dog or cat license - lodging occupation tax - sales tax report or submit - pothole/streets issue - code violation - utility bill change of address - utility bill renter form - other complaint - contact - facilities & hours - staff directory - employee portal - employee webmail
water used for bottling is required to be analyzed for bacteria only once a week.