having just spent several weeks in the united states, i can report with confidence that, more than ever before, americans have their hands full.
hence contamination is also a concern.
two more closely related problems are declining support for public water  and corporate interest in privatizing water supplies.
as the 1999 nrdc report notes, bottled water may be useful temporarily when  tap water is contaminated; "in the long run, however, it is far better  from an economic, environmental and public health point of view to improve  public drinking water supplies than it is to have a massive societal shift from  consumer use of tap water to use of bottled water.
it  is about selling an image -- much like a real-estate agent peddling a mirage.
stephen hesse welcomes mail at: stevehesse@hotmail.com
according to clarke, a 1999 study by the u.s.-based natural resources defense council, titled "bottled water: pure drink or pure hype?," estimates that "bottled water is between 240 and 10,000 times more expensive than tap water.
even more shocking is that danone and  nestle "pay little or nothing for the water they take out of groundwater  streams and aquifers," he adds.
clearly someone appears to be laughing all the way to their shareholders' meetings.
this switch is setting the stage for corporations to profit from taking over control of public water supplies.
convenience stores and supermarkets now carry a dozen or more water  products at prices that run as high as similar-sized bottles of soda.
"the industry's treatment processes do not guarantee that bottled  water is safer than tap water; in fact, a number of studies have demonstrated  that bottled water is often less safe than tap water," says the report.
yet these same plastic packages are becoming the  fastest-growing form of municipal solid waste in the u.s. and canada," clarke notes.
similarly, coca-cola vending machines sell cola, orange soda, and coca-cola's  dasani brand of water -- all at $ 1.50.
it is about selling an image -- much like a real-estate agent peddling a mirage.
i may be old-fashioned, but this strikes me as a rip-off.
to make matters worse, the big four "actively oppose legislation aimed at improving recycling rates for plastic bottles and requiring beverage container deposits," he adds.
this switch is setting the stage for corporations to profit from taking  over control of public water supplies.
in return, public  willingness to pay premium prices for bottled water enables water-service  corporations to establish a top-dollar price," warns clarke.
hence they inevitably ought to cost more to produce than filtered tap water.
one of the most egregious sins of the big four companies that he identifies is price gouging.
according to clarke, a 1999 study by the u.s.-based natural resources  defense council, titled "bottled water: pure drink or pure hype?,"  estimates that "bottled water is between 240 and 10,000 times more  expensive than tap water.
such extremes of multitasking no longer surprise me, and since americans have always loved to chat, cell phones are a natural extension of that passion.
" exploding use of plastic bottles is yet another concern.
one of the most egregious sins of the big four companies that he identifies  is price gouging.
clarke calls the price markup on bottled water "astonishing," considering that coca-cola and pepsi "draw the water for their products directly from municipal taps."
according to tony clarke, author of "inside the bottle: an expose of  the bottled water industry," published in 2005, "as the senior vice  president of nestle waters' global marketing and communications division puts  it: 'we sell water . . .
"the bottled-water industry's marketing of 'safe, clean water' undermines citizen's confidence in public water systems, and paves the way for the water companies to take over underfunded local utilities.
but dasani is filtered tap water.
"the industry's treatment processes do not guarantee that bottled water is safer than tap water; in fact, a number of studies have demonstrated that bottled water is often less safe than tap water," says the report.
"these containers release highly dangerous toxic chemicals and contaminants into the air and water when they are manufactured, and again when they are burned or buried.
in fact, it's a wonder they get anything done at all.
i've also become used to the american fondness for toting drinks while walking, shopping and driving: mugs of tea, boutique coffees, super-size-me sodas, kid-friendly juice packs and all manner of fluorescent-colored sports drinks.
today, close to one-fifth of the population in canada and  the u.s. drinks bottled water exclusively -- demonstrating how extraordinarily  successful the industry has been in luring people away from tap water,"  clarke notes.
" clarke is director of the polaris institute, an ottawa-based organization that, as its mission statement declares, develops tools for research, education and action to help citizens' groups bring about democratic social change and challenge the power of corporations in the making of public policy.
" clarke is director of the polaris institute, an ottawa-based organization  that, as its mission statement declares, develops tools for research, education  and action to help citizens' groups bring about democratic social change and  challenge the power of corporations in the making of public policy.
stephen hesse welcomes mail at: stevehesse@hotmail.com the japan times donate to polaris institute
with a cell phone in one  hand and a bottle of water or a cup of coffee in the other, they are also  lugging groceries, messing with blackberries, reading paperbacks and driving  cars all more or less simultaneously.
" expensive or not, sales of bottled water in north america are now the fastest-growing segment of the beverage industry.
convenience stores and supermarkets now carry a dozen or more water products at prices that run as high as similar-sized bottles of soda.
"several peer-reviewed scientific studies have found disturbing  concentrations of toxic ingredients such as arsenic and mercury in their  bottled-water samplings," warns clarke, who adds that "bottling  plants face inspections only once every three-to-six years depending on the  country, and regulations governing tap water are often stricter than those  governing bottled water.
which means coca-cola is charging the same price for water as it is for water-based products that have considerable value added.
even more shocking is that danone and nestle "pay little or nothing for the water they take out of groundwater streams and aquifers," he adds.
"inside the bottle," downloadable from the internet, offers a  close-up look at this mirage, and how the big four drinks companies in north  america -- coca-cola, pepsi, nestle and danone (dannon in the u.s.) -- are  getting rich selling water taken from public water supplies -- and convincing  us that we are better off buying what once was ours for free.
to make matters worse, the big four "actively oppose legislation aimed  at improving recycling rates for plastic bottles and requiring beverage  container deposits," he adds.
"the bottled-water industry's marketing of 'safe, clean water'  undermines citizen's confidence in public water systems, and paves the way for  the water companies to take over underfunded local utilities.
in japan, too, shoals of train passengers and pedestrians using keitai (cell phones) are the norm, but japanese seem to prefer sending text messages than talking on their phones.
according to "inside the bottle," the world's largest for-profit water-service corporations, such as suez and vivendi (now veolia) from france, and german-based rwe-thames, are eager to privatize water.
"ten years ago, most people relied on their municipal system for all  their drinking water.
" as my 12-year-old son pointed out incredulously in the u.s. as we sampled a lineup of eight different brands of bottled water, "dad, they all taste just like water -- why pay for this stuff?"
this, despite the fact that tap water, with very few  exceptions, is a safe form of drinking water in canada and the united  states.
selling water, it seems, is not about marketing a value-added product.
" as my 12-year-old son pointed out incredulously in the u.s. as we sampled a  lineup of eight different brands of bottled water, "dad, they all taste  just like water -- why pay for this stuff?"
hence they inevitably ought to cost more to produce than filtered  tap water.
clarke calls the price markup on bottled water "astonishing,"  considering that coca-cola and pepsi "draw the water for their products  directly from municipal taps."
in return, public willingness to pay premium prices for bottled water enables water-service corporations to establish a top-dollar price," warns clarke.
how clever: setting us up to pay through the nose for something that is essential for all life and ought to be managed by and for the public.
"unlike other raw materials such as timber, minerals, oil and gas, which are transformed into identifiably new products, bottled water is simply water transformed into water [emphasis in original].
today, close to one-fifth of the population in canada and the u.s. drinks bottled water exclusively -- demonstrating how extraordinarily successful the industry has been in luring people away from tap water," clarke notes.
" expensive or not, sales of bottled water in north america are now the  fastest-growing segment of the beverage industry.
"ten years ago, most people relied on their municipal system for all their drinking water.
in this report, clarke levels 10 charges against coca-cola, pepsi, nestle  and danone that will change forever the way you view those seemingly benign  bottles of water that line convenience store shelves.
bottled water and problems that flow posted in water having just spent several weeks in the united states, i can report with  confidence that, more than ever before, americans have their hands full.
after all, colas and other sodas are made with water plus sugar, coloring, flavoring and other chemicals.
after all, colas  and other sodas are made with water plus sugar, coloring, flavoring and other  chemicals.
in this report, clarke levels 10 charges against coca-cola, pepsi, nestle and danone that will change forever the way you view those seemingly benign bottles of water that line convenience store shelves.
this, despite the fact that tap water, with very few exceptions, is a safe form of drinking water in canada and the united states.
which means coca-cola is charging the  same price for water as it is for water-based products that have considerable  value added.
in the past 10 years, "consumption of bottled water has more than  doubled in the u.s. alone, while in canada it now outpaces that of coffee, tea,  apple juice or milk," according to "inside the bottle."
according to tony clarke, author of "inside the bottle: an expose of the bottled water industry," published in 2005, "as the senior vice president of nestle waters' global marketing and communications division puts it: 'we sell water . . .
how clever: setting us up to pay through the nose for something that is  essential for all life and ought to be managed by and for the public.
as the 1999 nrdc report notes, bottled water may be useful temporarily when tap water is contaminated; "in the long run, however, it is far better from an economic, environmental and public health point of view to improve public drinking water supplies than it is to have a massive societal shift from consumer use of tap water to use of bottled water.
below are a few of his main concerns.
in japan, too, shoals of train passengers and pedestrians using keitai (cell  phones) are the norm, but japanese seem to prefer sending text messages than  talking on their phones.
such extremes of multitasking no longer surprise me, and since americans  have always loved to chat, cell phones are a natural extension of that passion.
two more closely related problems are declining support for public water and corporate interest in privatizing water supplies.
"inside the bottle," downloadable from the internet, offers a close-up look at this mirage, and how the big four drinks companies in north america -- coca-cola, pepsi, nestle and danone (dannon in the u.s.) -- are getting rich selling water taken from public water supplies -- and convincing us that we are better off buying what once was ours for free.
so we've got to be clever.'
with a cell phone in one hand and a bottle of water or a cup of coffee in the other, they are also lugging groceries, messing with blackberries, reading paperbacks and driving cars all more or less simultaneously.
yet these same plastic packages are becoming the fastest-growing form of municipal solid waste in the u.s. and canada," clarke notes.
below are a few of his  main concerns.
"these containers release highly dangerous toxic chemicals and  contaminants into the air and water when they are manufactured, and again when  they are burned or buried.
i've also become used to the american fondness for toting drinks while  walking, shopping and driving: mugs of tea, boutique coffees, super-size-me  sodas, kid-friendly juice packs and all manner of fluorescent-colored sports  drinks.
according to "inside the  bottle," the world's largest for-profit water-service corporations, such  as suez and vivendi (now veolia) from france, and german-based rwe-thames, are  eager to privatize water.
in the past 10 years, "consumption of bottled water has more than doubled in the u.s. alone, while in canada it now outpaces that of coffee, tea, apple juice or milk," according to "inside the bottle."
for years people have been drinking spring water, mineral water and sparkling water, but what used to be a modest health trend has mutated into a worrisome marketing scam.
in  fact, it's a wonder they get anything done at all.
similarly, coca-cola vending machines sell cola, orange soda, and coca-cola's dasani brand of water -- all at $ 1.50.
but what caught my eye this time was the bottled-water craze.
"several peer-reviewed scientific studies have found disturbing concentrations of toxic ingredients such as arsenic and mercury in their bottled-water samplings," warns clarke, who adds that "bottling plants face inspections only once every three-to-six years depending on the country, and regulations governing tap water are often stricter than those governing bottled water.
"unlike other raw materials such as timber, minerals, oil and gas, which  are transformed into identifiably new products, bottled water is simply water  transformed into water [emphasis in original].
another of clarke's key concerns is the transformation of water.
for years people have been drinking spring water, mineral water and  sparkling water, but what used to be a modest health trend has mutated into a  worrisome marketing scam.