how to brew tea - tea brewing temperatures - tea brewing times - how to brew tea (video) water filters - types of home water filters - top pitcher water filter - gravitea water filter pitcher review more on water related articles - bottled, filtered or tap: which water is healthiest?
when do i change the water filter?
tap water aside from fresh mountain stream water and good-quality bottled spring water, filtered tap water is generally the best option for brewing tea.
given that few of us have access to clean, fresh mountain water for tea today, you may want to consider other options.
distilled water is too soft (low in minerals) and will brew into flat-tasting tea.
a part of the new york times company.
for more information on water filters, here's an article ontypes of water filters and a listing oftop pitcher-style water filters.
if  you are using a filter, it’s best to brew with freshly filtered water.
consider using bottled water instead.
the best spring water for tea should be neutral in ph (about 7) and in flavor.
in ancient times, the tea scholar lu yu said the best  water for brewing tea came from the center of a swiftly moving mountain stream.
in ancient times, the tea scholar lu yu said the best water for brewing tea came from the center of a swiftly moving mountain stream.
- about.com - food & drink - coffee / tea coffee / tea search free coffee / tea newsletter!
if it’s above about 8.5, it ishard water and it will brew into bitter tea.
(water absorbs odors over time and, if your water has been sitting out in your kitchen for a while, you tea’s flavor may be negatively impacted.)
here are the main types of water and the advantages/disadvantages to using each type of water for tea brewing.
- using municipal tap water - homebrewing lindsey goodwin coffee / tea guide - sign up for my newsletter related searches bottled spring water brewing tea bitter tea tea brewing water tap moving mountain explore coffee / tea must reads most popular - caffeine in coffee / tea - espresso drinks - best green tea types - best chai recipes - tea sandwich recipes see more about: - how much caffeine is in coffee, tea, cola & other drinks… - high tea vs. afternoon tea - the joy of soy - starbucks caffeine contents - chicory
if it’s above about 8.5, it ishard water  and it will brew into bitter tea.
if you have bad tap water, you may want to consider using bottled water to brew tea.
quality spring water is the optimal bottled water for tea, but some types are better than others.
if you bring it to just shy of a boil after filtering and you can still smell minerals, it’s still too hard for tea.
as soft water produces flat-tasting tea, some serious tea aficionados warm soft water with certain types of rocks in the kettle.
if your filtered tap water is nearly as good as the bottled water, i recommend using the tap water.
hard water should always be filtered for the best  tasting tea.
however, if you bring it to just shy of a boil and you can still smell minerals, it’s still too hard for tea.
another good filtration option is japanese bamboo charcoal, which is basically a simplified carbon filter.
well water with any ph above 7, it’s best to filter  before brewing to prevent the unwanted flavor of extra minerals.
here are the main types of water and  the advantages/disadvantages to using each type of water for tea brewing.
- from water filters to bottled water, storing and conserving - hard water - what you must absolutely know about water - homebrewing - bottled, spring and filtered water and health - is bottled water safe to drink?
if you are using a filter, it’s best to brew with freshly filtered water.
as soft water  produces flat-tasting tea, some serious tea aficionados warm soft water with  certain types of rocks in the kettle.
however, if you bring it to just shy of a boil and you can still  smell minerals, it’s still too hard for tea.
i use a regular brita filter, but there are more sophisticated water filters on the market for those with specific water problems or a desire for truly excellent water.
- privacy policy - your ad choices ©2012 about.com.
be sure to filter it.
if you have bad tap water, you may want to  consider using bottled water to brew tea.
the best spring water for tea should be neutral in ph  (about 7) and in flavor.
hard water should always be filtered for the best tasting tea.
tap water aside from fresh mountain stream  water and good-quality bottled spring water, filtered tap water is generally  the best option for brewing tea.
it should have a total dissolved solids (tds) content of 30 parts per million (ppm) or less.
i use a regular brita filter, but there are more  sophisticated water filters on the market for those with specific water  problems or a desire for truly excellent water.
by category - water for tea - hard water - bottled water - water filters - tea preparation - preparation & recipes - coffee basics - tea basics - reviews - food recipes / pairings - advanced coffee - advanced tea - tisanes / herbal teas - caffeine in coffee / tea - coffee / tea & health - glossary of terms - history & culture - the beverage industry coffee / tea - about.com - food & drink - coffee / tea - tea basics - tea preparation - water for tea brewing - best tap / filtered / bottled / spring water for tea also from about.com: - most popular - latest articles - rss - calorie count - food & recipe database - advertise on about.com - our story - news & events - work at about - sitemap - all topics - reprints - help - write for about - user agreement - ethics policy - patent info.
if you’re deciding  between spring water and good, filtered tap water, you may also want to  consider the cost and environmental impact of using bottled water.
well  water poses a special problem for tea brewing because its ph is almost always  above 7.
it should have a total dissolved solids (tds) content  of 30 parts per million (ppm) or less.
mineral water is toohard  (mineral-rich) and may leave your tea tasting metallic or harsh.
if your  filtered tap water is nearly as good as the bottled water, i recommend using  the tap water.
distilled  water is too soft (low in minerals) and will brew into flat-tasting tea.
test your well water.
consider using bottled water  instead.
(water absorbs odors over time and, if your water has been sitting out in your  kitchen for a while, you tea’s flavor may be negatively impacted.)
freshly drawn filtered water is the best option for most tea brewers.
well water poses a special problem for tea brewing because its ph is almost always above 7.
if you’re deciding between spring water and good, filtered tap water, you may also want to consider the cost and environmental impact of using bottled water.
given that few of us have access to clean, fresh mountain water for tea today,  you may want to consider other options.
sign up - coffee / tea - brewing basics - recipes - equipment & gifts discuss in my forum water for tea brewing well, bottled, tap, filtered & spring waters by lindsey goodwin, about.com guide see more about: - water for tea - hard water - bottled water - water filters - tea preparation
for  more information on water filters, here's an article ontypes of water filters  and a listing oftop pitcher-style water filters.
if you bring  it to just shy of a boil after filtering and you can still smell minerals,  it’s still too hard for tea.
another good filtration option  is japanese bamboo charcoal, which is basically a simplified carbon filter.
quality spring water is the optimal bottled water for tea, but some types  are better than others.
some neutral-tasting tap water may not even need to be filtered.
well water with any ph above 7, it’s best to filter before brewing to prevent the unwanted flavor of extra minerals.
this adds a better balance of minerals to  the water and the final brew.
some neutral-tasting tap water may not even  need to be filtered.
this adds a better balance of minerals to the water and the final brew.
mineral water is toohard (mineral-rich) and may leave your tea tasting metallic or harsh.