bonus, totally unsurprising reason to choose water over soda 1.
maybe you, like us, started to  feel uncomfortable about how effective these companies have become at  encouraging young people to consume their product: beverages of caffeine,  sodium, sugar, high fructose corn syrup, and even some mystery chemicals about  which little is known.”
here at big berkey water filters, we think water should be your beverage of choice most of the time.
over 50% of the surveyed brands did not improve, or even worse, included less information than in 2010.
as so many bottled water producers keep information on water quality to themselves, it is possible that most of the time you are paying for bottled tap water without even knowing it.
their flavored varieties are just that: flavored.
plus, the berkey home water filter system does not depend on electricity to function and it is fully portable.
in addition to water quality arguments, there are serious environmental  reasons for giving up bottled water.
the truth may surprise you.
as so many  bottled water producers keep information on water quality to themselves, it is  possible that most of the time you are paying for bottled tap water without  even knowing it.
“if you love snowboarding or some other healthy activity that defines many decisions in your life, you are likely a choice target-consumer for companies that sell ‘energy drinks.’
surprisingly, the bottled water industry finds this already established trend difficult to accept and follow.
in more rural areas, poorly contained animal agriculture operations allow rain to wash waste into waterways.
according to federal regulations bottled water is not much safer than tap water, as the chemical pollution standards are almost the same.
sports beverages are still basically processed sugar, salts, artificial  flavor, and color.
parents and doctors around the country have raised the alarm about the host of  sugary drinks marketed to kids that contribute to obesity, diabetes, even  ailments like kidney stones, once unheard of in kids.
a few posts ago, we gave you 6 reasons to drink more water.
the truth may  surprise you.
dr. frederick vom saal, a biologist at the university of missouri at columbia known for discovering health problems linked to exposure to common chemicals in everyday products told the globe and mail: “there is also a growing body of scientific literature, based on animal experiments, that has found harmful effects due to bpa at concentrations up to 1,000 times below health canada’s safety limit.
the nutritional claims on the vitamin water label are based on serving size.
negotiations with the owner for the clean-up of the mine and contaminated areas have been underway for some time, but a resolution has yet to be reached.
wise food essential survival kit the wise food essential survival kit backpack weighs 16 lbs and is  designed to support 1 person for 2 weeks, or 2 people for 1 week.
it doesn’t matter whether you are on a well or have city water, turning on the tap can sometimes be a crap-shoot.
for those of us in more temperate locales, the coconut  water is harvested, pasteurized, bottled, and shipped.
if you like your filtered water flavored, try adding a squeeze of lemon, a slice of fresh ginger, a few peppermint leaves, or even an herbal tea bag (yes, it works with cold water).
have the tests found any contaminants?
this means it can be counted on to deliver safe, clean water even during power outages.
total fat mass remained the same across all beverage-consuming groups, but regular-soda drinkers experienced dramatic increases in harmful hidden fats, including liver fat and skeletal fat,” the daily times reports.
even the best scored brads were not faultless.
essentially synthetic vitamins, sugar, and artificial colors and flavors dissolved in water, the nutritional label does make vitamin water seem like a better choice than soda.
i just had a mom call in last week, and her 8 year old had drunk a 6 pack of *******.
only 39 brands scored better in information transparency in 2011 versus 2010.
if you do need sugar/electrolyte boost and those ingredients  don’t sit well with you, a handful of salted pretzels with your water  before or after exercise also provides easily digestible carbohydrates and  sodium.
according to a wall street journal article, it takes as much as 132 gallons  of water to make a 2-liter bottle of soda.
because of this, it is most important to keep beach sand out of the mouths of toddlers.
nowadays, consumers have become more and more aware of their rights and  have requested manufacturers to provide information that enable them to make  good choices.
health reasons to skip the soda (and just drink water)
farmers near mehdiganj in northern india blame the local coca cola bottling plant for a 6-meter drop in the water table  since 2000 when the plant opened.
ewg’s bottled water study environmental working group (ewg) carries out an annual survey on the level  of transparency of information among the bottled water brands in the united  states.
your berkey filtered water continues to be the winner for hydration and health.
when the right system is selected, you will enjoy cleaner, safer water without having to spend a fortune in the process.
comparing the results with previous year findings, very slow progress was noticed.
what are ewg’s recommendations then?
our water filters remove the things in your water that you don’t want without stripping out the vital minerals your body needs.
no comments » america’s top snowboarders want you to drink water monday,  january 9th, 2012 energy drinks such as red bull, monster energy and rockstar have become  popular among fans of snowboarding in the united states, with drink companies  advertising at events and sponsoring athletes.
note: we happen to be seeing this currently with the turkey earthquake and flooding in thailand .
“after a few extreme soda binges — not too far from what many [video] gamers regularly consume – a few patients have needed medical attention for skin lesions, memory loss and nerve disorders, all symptoms of overexposure to bromine,” according to a recent article inenvironmental news.
unsavory chemicals like chlorine, unwanted additives like fluoride, and a host of microscopic bacteria can seep into every glass.
vitamin water essentially synthetic vitamins, sugar, and artificial colors and flavors  dissolved in water, the nutritional label does make vitamin water seem like a  better choice than soda.
berkey water filter systems also significantly reduce the fluoride and arsenic levels in your water via the pf line of filters.
believe it or not, some of them provided out dated water tests from 2008!
no comments » big berkey water filters is proudly powered by wordpress entries (rss) andcomments (rss).
for those of us in more temperate locales, the coconut water is harvested, pasteurized, bottled, and shipped.
during very heavy storms, the system can be overwhelmed and rainwater and  untreated sewage simply overflows into local waterways.
thursday, october 27th, 2011 when reaching out for a bottle of water in a supermarket you expect to get  a safe, high value drink that replenishes your bodily fluids and supplies the  organism with valuable minerals.
bpa in soda can liners mimic hormones in february 2012, the toronto globe and mail reported that it found the  plastic softenerbisphenol-a in 96% of the cans of soda it tested.
the wise food essential survival kit backpack weighs 16 lbs and is designed to support 1 person for 2 weeks, or 2 people for 1 week.
we believe theberkey water filter  provides the highest quality filtration for the lowest initial and ongoing  maintenance costs.
if so, what techniques have been used in this process?
in the united states, the production and transportation of bottled water is responsible for the level of co2 emission comparable to that produced by two million cars.
their flavored  varieties are just that: flavored.
according to federal regulations bottled water is not much safer than tap  water, as the chemical pollution standards are almost the same.
now we have one more: it’s so much better for you than drinking soda.
reporters katherine hobson and  angela haupt compared plain coconut water by zico with gatorade forusnews &  world report: gatorade: 6.25 calories, 1.75 grams sugar, 3.75 mg  potassium, 13.75 mg sodium (plain) zico: 5.45 calories, 1.3 grams sugar, 61 mg  potassium, 5.45 mg sodium from a sugar and calories perspective, zico seems to be a slightly better  choice, but, say hobson and haupt, if you are rehydrating from exercise, you  actually want the sodium in gatorade more than the potassium in coconut water.
in 2011 the group has reviewed 173 bottled water products and compared the results with those from the previous year.
in addition to water quality arguments, there are serious environmental reasons for giving up bottled water.
but since it can be an acquired taste, many beverage makers blend it with juice, which naturally increases the sugar and calorie content.
no comments » the denver post has recently reported that an abandoned uranium mine located in jefferson county, colorado is contaminating both surrounding groundwater and a creek that serves the denver’s ralston water reservoir.
tags: drink water campaign, sport berkey, water.org berkey posted in  uncategorized | 2 comments » buying bottled water - do
the latest issue of surfer magazine reports: “most official county advisories warn to avoid contact with the water for 72 hours after a heavy rain, a three-day buffer to allow the collective runoff to thin to healthy levels.”
not only that, minimizing exposure to beach sand after an advisory is issued may be just as important.
getting your money’s worth – some home water filters cost a small fortune to put into operation.
tags: home water filter, home water filters, water filters posted in uncategorized, home water filters, water filters |
the latest issue of surfer magazine reports: “most official county  advisories warn to avoid contact with the water for 72 hours after a heavy  rain, a three-day buffer to allow the collective runoff to thin to healthy  levels.”
farmers near mehdiganj in northern india blame the local coca cola bottling plant for a 6-meter drop in the water table since 2000 when the plant opened.
offering: vita coco coconut water with pineapple: 7.06  calories, 1.9 grams sugar, 61 mg potassium, 3.6 mg sodium.
that compares to more than$4 per gallon for soda  by the can.
no comments » your berkey water filter has been shown to effectively purify even untreated water.
when the right home water filter system is used, you can be assured of several things every time you pour a glass of water for a family member.
we all know that drinking too much soda is bad for your teeth and  waistline, but researchers have uncovered all sorts of other scary health  effects of drinking coca cola, mountain dew, and their many soft drink  relatives.
drink water your berkey filtered water continues to be the winner for hydration and
“[o]ne bottle of vitamin water contains 125 calories and 33 grams of  sugar.
she called because the kid was light headed, was sick to his stomach and his heart was racing, and you know what i told her?
while coca cola and pepsi co both recently agreed to reformulate their caramel coloring to reduce a carcinogenic ingredient banned in california, there are many other scary reasons to cut back.
however, a recent danish study connects non-diet soda consumption to dangerous fat accumulation in the liver and skeleton even when non-soda drinkers consumed the same calories.
that’s more calories and sugar than a 12 ounce serving of coke . . .
producing bottled water also has a high carbon footprint price – it  takes 20,000 times more energy to produce bottled water than the same amount of  tap water.
according to the natural resources defense council (nrdc), the advocacy organization that calculated the beach-closing statistic, pollution from leaky sewer pipes or overflows during heavy rains are a primary source of human sewage pollution in waterways.
last march, when the japan earthquake impacted emergency preparedness supplies across the us, these survival kits sold out within days and resulted in a 5 month backlog of orders.
coconut water is the liquid found in a young coconut and is often served fresh in the coconut in tropical climates.
as far as calories and sugar goes, coconut water is a better choice than  soda or other high sugar beverages (64.5 calories/15 g sugar per 12  ounce serving compared to 110 cal/30 g sugar for soda).
and most of that goes into processed foods and animal feed.
if you do not have any emergency preparedness items for you or your family, these kits are a great way to get started and cover all the basics in one easy purchase.
all that water has to come from somewhere.
flame-retardants in citrus-flavored soft-drinks and sports-drinks soda companies’ use brominated vegetable oil (bvo) to keep ingredients from separating in approximately 10 percent of sodas including mountain dew and other citrus flavored soft drinks.
the survey results have revealed that 18% of the products do not provide the location of water source, 32% of brands do not disclose any information on the treatment or quality of water, and 13% of product are supported by ‘water quality reports’ that lack actual testing results.
nowadays, consumers have become more and more aware of their rights and have requested manufacturers to provide information that enable them to make good choices.
the first 6000 gallons filtered through your berkey water filter costs less than $0.02.
“[o]ne bottle of vitamin water contains 125 calories and 33 grams of sugar.
gaining peace of mind – there is something very comforting about knowing an effective home water filter system is on the job.
over 50% of the surveyed brands did not improve, or even worse,  included less information than in 2010.
here’s acomparison of berkey and other top consumer water filters on the market.
the new york times last year reported on an emerging trend of kidney stones  showing up in in kindergarteners, in part because they were drinking  high-sodium sports drinks instead of water.
“it’s been crazy to see the overwhelming support since we started this, that we’re not the only ones,” smith told thenew york times.
there is no national reporting  system in the united states to help epidemiologists track national trends, but  the centers for disease control estimate that illness from contaminated beach  water is on the rise.
the campaign donates 10 percent of their profits to water.org, a nonprofit  co-founded by the actor matt damon that provides clean water and sanitation in  africa, southern asia and central america.(bigberkeywaterfilters.com also  supports and donates to water.
according to a wall street journal article, it takes as much as 132 gallons of water to make a 2-liter bottle of soda.
tags: drink water campaign, sport berkey, water.org berkey posted in uncategorized | 2 comments » when reaching out for a bottle of water in a supermarket you expect to get a safe, high value drink that replenishes your bodily fluids and supplies the organism with valuable minerals.
water quality state and county authorities issued 24,091 beach closing and  advisory days in 2010 due to pollution, primarily from sewage and animal waste,  which could expose swimmers to a host of waterborne illnesses.
fox and smith are not the only ones raising concerns about energy drinks.
there is a wide variety of water filter systems that can be used indoors,  outdoors or even during travelling.
that’s more calories and sugar than a 12 ounce  serving of coke . . .
moreover, the plastic material used for making bottles may incorporate chemical substances like bpa (bisphenol a) that can leach into drinking water.
surfers and swimmers get sick from contaminated beach water
keeping your hands out of it or  washing them after playing in the sand is also a good idea,” explains the nrdc website.
in a 2009 study published in environmental science & technology  researchers found that sweeteners in the soda we are drinking are not being  filtered out by sewerage treatment plants are circulating back around in our  drinking water again.
tags: berkey water filter, bottled water posted in bottled water,  uncategorized |
has it been tested for quality?
soda drinkers accumulate fat in dangerous, hard-to-detect places some of the health effects correlated with soda consumption may actually be  due to the likelihood that calories from these sugared drinks displace  healthier beverages that would have provided important nutrients or that heavy  soda drinkers have a poor diet overall.
no comments » wise food survival kits back in stock!
sports beverages are still basically processed sugar, salts, artificial flavor, and color.
regardless of what model or supplier you choose, they should provide you with detailed system specifications and ongoing maintenance costs estimates, so you will know exactly what you will be paying for.
the campaign donates 10 percent of their profits to water.org, a nonprofit co-founded by the actor matt damon that provides clean water and sanitation in africa, southern asia and central america.(bigberkeywaterfilters.com also supports and donates to water.
in more rural areas,  poorly contained animal agriculture operations allow rain to wash waste into  waterways.
swimmers and other beach-goers, especially pregnant women, children, the elderly and those with a weakened immune system need to heed warnings and stay out of the water when bacteria levels rise.
the berkey home water filter system is favored from the british royal house to peace corp camps around the world for very good reasons.
(remind me again why they try to call this a form of “water”?)
after professional snowboarders  bryan fox and austin smith were approached by a company about promoting their  product, the duo decided to do something about their concerns that the added  sugar, stimulants and other ingredients in those drinks weren’t just a  bad substitute for water but might actually be dangerous.
the big difference between sodas or sports drinks and the kind of energy drinks that inspired the drink water campaign is that, by labeling energy drinks as dietary supplements instead of food, companies avoid a host of food & drug administration regulations about truth in advertising.
according to  sugarydrinkfacts.org, “from 2008 to 2010 ad exposure for regular soda  doubled for children and teens, and energy drink exposure increased by 20 to  50%.”
what is the water’s origin?
even sandcastles can harbor beach bacteria
moreover, the plastic material  used for making bottles may incorporate chemical substances like bpa (bisphenol  a) that can leach into drinking water.
i personally have a deluxe kit for my home and an essential kit in the trunk of my car.
since most people probably drink the whole 2.5-serving bottle at once, that calculation is more important.
in addition to making drinks taste better, the removal of chemicals is also fantastic for the flavors of dishes cooked with water in the mix.
environmental reasons to pass on pop (and just drink water) 5.
swimmers  and other beach-goers, especially pregnant women, children, the elderly and  those with a weakened immune system need to heed warnings and stay out of the  water when bacteria levels rise.
it contains: pocket tissue - qty 6 packages 4-in-1 dynamo flashlight - qty 1 deck of playing cards - qty 1 water proof matches - qty 50 waste bag - qty 2 note pad - qty 1 golf pencil - qty 1 mylar sleeping bags - qty 2 leather palm work gloves - qty 1 36 piece bandage kit - qty 1 water filtration bottle - qty 1 portable stove - qty 1 stove fuel tablets - qty 16 metal fork knife and spoon - qty 1 sierra cup - qty 1 wise emergency food storage included with backpack (44 servings): stroganoff creamy chicken pasta cheesy lasagna chicken teriyaki
there is a wide variety of water filter systems that can be used indoors, outdoors or even during travelling.
so let’s look at a competitor’s offering: vita coco coconut water with pineapple: 7.06 calories, 1.9 grams sugar, 61 mg potassium, 3.6 mg sodium.
their main call is: drink filtered tap water.
the biggest problem with sports drinks is that most people don’t need  them; they don’t exercise hard enough to need to electrolyte  replenishment or even burn enough calories to offset the beverage.
for the love of clean water archive for the ‘uncategorized’ category better than plain water?
emily playscello of fit sugar did the math.
there is also a different berkey water filter model available to accommodate every family size.
these have already proven  to be a great investment over the past couple years as i’ve used the  essential kit in two instances while on the road.
“surfers sometimes believe that they are immune to ocean-related illness, because they have been surfing that same spot for years, or that the water quality is not as bad as it is hyped up to be,” explains paloma aguirre, spokesperson for the san diego-based environmental organizationwildcoast.
according tothe center for food safety, “[h]uman health effects can  include higher risks of toxicity, allergenicity, antibiotic resistance,  immune-suppression and cancer.”
all  that water has to come from somewhere.
our water costs about 1.7 cents a gallon.
drink water campaign touches a nerve sugarydrinkfacts.org reports that 5 hour energy ranked among the top 3  beverages most advertised to kids and the #1 most advertised to teens.
tags: berkey filtered water, soda health, unhealthy sports drinks posted inuncategorized, berkey water filter |
regardless of what model or  supplier you choose, they should provide you with detailed system  specifications and ongoing maintenance costs estimates, so you will know  exactly what you will be paying for.
now, coke contains high fructose corn syrup and is not fortified, but nutritionally, you’re still getting sugar and calories from both drinks.”
some of that water is used in farming the ingredients and some is used in the manufacture and bottling.
it contains: pocket tissue - qty 6 packages 4-in-1 dynamo flashlight - qty 1 deck of playing cards - qty 1
i personally have a deluxe kit for my home and an  essential kit in the trunk of my car.
between 2004 and 2009 the consumption of  bottled water in the united states increased by 24%.
if so, what techniques have been used in this  process?
comparing the results with previous year findings, very slow progress was  noticed.
now, we have a separate option for “energy drink overdoses.”
we’ve also questioned energy drinks and explained whydrinking soda more than very occasionally is a bad idea too.
the nutritional claims on the  vitamin water label are based on serving size.
we explained why smartwater, and bottled water in general, isn’t all that smart.
some of that water is used in  farming the ingredients and some is used in the manufacture and bottling.
pollution at u.s. beaches exposes swimmers to a range of waterborne illnesses and may cause stomach flu, skin rashes, pinkeye, ear, nose and throat problems, dysentery, hepatitis, respiratory ailments, neurological disorders and other serious health problems.
no comments » after being out of stock for nearly 5 months, the very popular wise food survival kits are now again available.
when home water filters are used to get rid of the chemicals, the only taste left behind is pure, clean water.
one study conducted by the agency concluded that 10 percent of great lakes beachgoers get sick after swimming.
once you’ve replaced the filter in the same durable housing,  your per gallon cost even less.
but is this always the case?
tags: berkey water filter, bottled water posted in bottled water, uncategorized |
we’ve also questioned energy drinks  and explained whydrinking soda more than very occasionally is a bad idea too.
soda drinkers accumulate fat in dangerous, hard-to-detect places some of the health effects correlated with soda consumption may actually be due to the likelihood that calories from these sugared drinks displace healthier beverages that would have provided important nutrients or that heavy soda drinkers have a poor diet overall.
zico doesn’t offer coconut water/juice blends.
beneath the schwartzwalder mine, uranium concentrations were found to exceed human health standards by more than 1000 times!
sports drinks powerade, gatorade, and sports recovery drink relatives have poured  significant research funds into developing that most palatable beverage that  delivers the quickest electrolyte replenishment along with hydration.
has it been purified?
the biggest problem with sports drinks is that most people don’t need them; they don’t exercise hard enough to need to electrolyte replenishment or even burn enough calories to offset the beverage.
the product concept is simple; an all-in-one emergency preparedness backpack that contains long term food storage packets and emergency supplies like a flashlight, medical kit, waterproof matches, knife, water bottle filter etc.
coconut water  is the liquid found in a young coconut and is often served fresh in the coconut  in tropical climates.
if you do not have any emergency preparedness items for you or your family,  these kits are a great way to get started and cover all the basics in one easy  purchase.
in many cases this basic information is difficult to find on the label or on the producer’s website.
it can save you  money and allow you to do your part in contributing to a cleaner environment.
these include: enjoying better tasting water – chlorine and other additives placed into public water supplies can give water a funny flavor that bothers many.
environmental working group (ewg) carries out an annual survey on the level of transparency of information among the bottled water brands in the united states.
if you are looking for a water filtration solution while you are on the go, we encourage you to check out thesport berkey.
we get calls  every week on this stuff.
however, people are exposed to bpa from  hundreds of possible sources.
unless you  are exercising hard for more than 90 minutes, sports drinks do no better than  water in most hydration studies.
now we have one  more: it’s so much better for you than drinking soda.
in a 2009 study published in environmental science & technology researchers found that sweeteners in the soda we are drinking are not being filtered out by sewerage treatment plants are circulating back around in our drinking water again.
filtered water tastes great and is much cheaper than soda
they are highly effective at removing such things as cysts, parasites, and harmful pathogens (to 99.99999%), while also removing many unwanted chemicals and contaminants to undetectable levels.
you know what you’re getting?
“after a few extreme soda binges — not too far from what many  [video] gamers regularly consume – a few patients have needed medical  attention for skin lesions, memory loss and nerve disorders, all symptoms of  overexposure to bromine,” according to a recent article inenvironmental  news.
water quality state and county authorities issued 24,091 beach closing and advisory days in 2010 due to pollution, primarily from sewage and animal waste, which could expose swimmers to a host of waterborne illnesses.
“bacteria concentrate in sand as water rises and recedes with the tides, leaving both the wet sand and the dry sand just beyond it more heavily contaminated than the water.
fixing sewers and protecting the public from pollution rdc and other public health advocates are calling for a variety of reforms  that include increased funding for sewer treatment plant upgrades and sewage  system repair.
the new york times last year reported on an emerging trend of kidney stones showing up in in kindergarteners, in part because they were drinking high-sodium sports drinks instead of water.
the gravity water filters we offer are designed to get rid of a number of major concerns in public drinking water.
the companies  are not required to substantiate the claims on its packaging.
chicken ala king southwest bean and rice beef teriyaki and rice multi-grain cereal honey glazed granola wise food essential survival kit the wise food deluxe survival kit backpack weighs 27 lbs and is designed to support 1 person for 2 weeks, or 2 people for 1 week.
we get calls every week on this stuff.
in 2011 the group has reviewed 173 bottled water products and compared  the results with those from the previous year.
there is no national reporting system in the united states to help epidemiologists track national trends, but the centers for disease control estimate that illness from contaminated beach water is on the rise.
no comments » 6 unexpected reasons to drink less soda monday, march 19th, 2012
last march, when the japan earthquake  impacted emergency preparedness supplies across the us, these survival kits  sold out within days and resulted in a 5 month backlog of orders.
bvo is patented as a flame  retardant in japan and banned in food products in europe.
sports drinks were designed to  replenish nutrients lost by top athletes during hard exercise, but they are now  marketed in lunch-box size packages and found as an alternative to soda in  school vending machines.
the big difference between sodas or sports drinks and the kind of energy  drinks that inspired the drink water campaign is that, by labeling energy  drinks as dietary supplements instead of food, companies avoid a host of food  & drug administration regulations about truth in advertising.
in many urban areas, rain runoff from roofs and roads is directed into the same pipes that carry household sewage to the local water treatment plant.
read more: fixing leaky pipes could triple u.s. water bills green infrastructure  protects rivers around the united states e. coli contamination of drinking  water tags: beach pollution, contaminated beaches, sewer water pollution posted inuncategorized, water pollution |
once you’ve replaced the filter in the same durable housing, your per gallon cost even less.
give him a lots of water to flush out his system.
the berkey system does not.
corn-syrup from sweetened beverages comes from genetically  modified corn more than 85% of the corn grown in the united states is genetically  modified (gmo).
powerade, gatorade, and sports recovery drink relatives have poured significant research funds into developing that most palatable beverage that delivers the quickest electrolyte replenishment along with hydration.
we explained why smartwater, and bottled water in  general, isn’t all that smart.
flame-retardants in citrus-flavored soft-drinks and sports-drinks soda companies’ use brominated vegetable oil (bvo) to keep  ingredients from separating in approximately 10 percent of sodas including  mountain dew and other citrus flavored soft drinks.
while coca cola and pepsi co both recently agreed to reformulate their  caramel coloring to reduce a carcinogenic ingredient banned in california,  there are many other scary reasons to cut back.
bpa in soda can liners mimic hormones in february 2012, the toronto globe and mail reported that it found the plastic softenerbisphenol-a in 96% of the cans of soda it tested.
soda has a big water footprint
the right water filters will remove any worries and concerns associated with grabbing water straight out of your tap.
tags: emergency preparedness kit, wise food storage, wise food survival kit posted in uncategorized, wise food storage |
drink water gives voice to energy drink wary snowboarders fox and smith began sporting their own “drink water” logo on  their boards and apparel.
many surfers don’t wait that long, either because they don’t realize they should or they think they tougher than the bacteria in the water.
after professional snowboarders bryan fox and austin smith were approached by a company about promoting their product, the duo decided to do something about their concerns that the added sugar, stimulants and other ingredients in those drinks weren’t just a bad substitute for water but might actually be dangerous.
“it’s been crazy to see the overwhelming support since we  started this, that we’re not the only ones,” smith told thenew york  times.
believe it or not, some of them provided out dated water tests  from 2008!
colorado regulators were aware of this contamination at least as early as july 2009, with uranium seepage likely underway for a considerable time beforehand, yet neither local residents nor the denver water authority was notified of the problem.
surprisingly, the bottled water industry finds this already  established trend difficult to accept and follow.
many surfers don’t wait that long, either because they don’t  realize they should or they think they tougher than the bacteria in the water.
here at big berkey water filters, we think water should be your beverage of  choice most of the time.
(remind me again why they try to call this a form of  “water”?)
only 39 brands scored better in  information transparency in 2011 versus 2010.
good quality systems successfully remove  bacteria, chlorine, organic solvents, vocs, lead, mercury, nitrates and  nitrites as well as other harmful substances.
while energy drinks are considered safe in reasonable quantities by the generally healthy adult population, fox and smith are hearing anecdotal evidence that overdoses are more and more common.
now, we have a separate option for  “energy drink overdoses.”
sewage contamination from cities and farms
if you drink the entire 17 ounce bottle of vita coco, that’s 120  calories, slightly more than the same-size serving of gatorade.
fortunately, the ralston reservoir is on temporary leave from serving denver’s drinking water system, but local residents who are on wells in jefferson county are rightfully nervous about this new development.
“if you love snowboarding or some other healthy activity that defines  many decisions in your life, you are likely a choice target-consumer for  companies that sell ‘energy drinks.’
however, a recent danish study connects  non-diet soda consumption to dangerous fat accumulation in the liver and  skeleton even when non-soda drinkers consumed the same calories.
in the united states, the production and transportation of bottled  water is responsible for the level of co2 emission comparable to that produced  by two million cars.
the companies are not required to substantiate the claims on its packaging.
these conditions include such hormonally linked illnesses as breast cancer, and dr. vom saal called the government’s assurances of no harm ‘simple-minded.’”
as far as calories and sugar goes, coconut water is a better choice than soda or other high sugar beverages (64.5 calories/15 g sugar per 12 ounce serving compared to 110 cal/30 g sugar for soda).
but since it can be an  acquired taste, many beverage makers blend it with juice, which naturally  increases the sugar and calorie content.
artificial sweeteners in soda end up in drinking water
now, the manufacturer has not only caught up on these back orders, but they have also ramped up production operations and increased inventory reserves to better handle the fervent demand that typically follows the occurrence of a natural disaster.
these are not good statistics!
now, coke contains high fructose corn syrup and is not  fortified, but nutritionally, you’re still getting sugar and calories  from both drinks.”
keeping your hands out of it or washing them after playing in the sand is also a good idea,” explains the nrdc website.
according to sugarydrinkfacts.org, “from 2008 to 2010 ad exposure for regular soda doubled for children and teens, and energy drink exposure increased by 20 to 50%.”
note: we  happen  to be seeing this currently with the turkey earthquake and flooding in thailand .
taking yoursport berkey or other  water bottle in the morning before you head out is a good way to both; keep  drinking water, and staying away from unhealthy sports drinks and other sugary  beverages.
however, people are exposed to bpa from hundreds of possible sources.
read more: fixing leaky pipes could triple u.s. water bills green infrastructure protects rivers around the united states e. coli contamination of drinking water tags: beach pollution, contaminated beaches, sewer water pollution posted inuncategorized, water pollution |
between 2004 and 2009 the consumption of bottled water in the united states increased by 24%.
“researchers asked participants to drink either regular soda, milk containing the same amount of calories as regular soda, diet cola, or water every day for six months.
in many cases this basic information is difficult to find on the label or on  the producer’s website.
energy drinks marketed to kids fox and smith are not the only ones raising concerns about energy drinks.
if you drink the entire 17 ounce bottle of vita coco, that’s 120 calories, slightly more than the same-size serving of gatorade.
dr. frederick vom saal, a biologist at the university of missouri at  columbia known for discovering health problems linked to exposure to common  chemicals in everyday products told the globe and mail: “there is also a  growing body of scientific literature, based on animal experiments, that has  found harmful effects due to bpa at concentrations up to 1,000 times below  health canada’s safety limit.
during very heavy storms, the system can be overwhelmed and rainwater and untreated sewage simply overflows into local waterways.
one study conducted by the agency concluded that 10  percent of great lakes beachgoers get sick after swimming.
the public could also be better protected by improving water quality testing speed, accuracy, and public notification systems.
no comments » every time you turn on the tap at home, chances are you find yourself wondering just what is in your water.
what is the water’s  origin?
no comments » energy drinks such as red bull, monster energy and rockstar have become popular among fans of snowboarding in the united states, with drink companies advertising at events and sponsoring athletes.
however, it’s not such a new development.
tags: bpa soda, sida health effects, soda health, soda health risks posted inuncategorized |
maybe you, like us, started to feel uncomfortable about how effective these companies have become at encouraging young people to consume their product: beverages of caffeine, sodium, sugar, high fructose corn syrup, and even some mystery chemicals about which little is known.”
water proof matches - qty 50 waste bag  - qty 2
the first 6000 gallons filtered through your berkey water filter costs less  than $0.02.
so let’s look at a competitor’s
tags: goundwater pollution, uranium pollution, uranium seepage, water pollution posted in uncategorized, water pollution |
with harmful bacteria found even in municipal drinking water systems, you can never be too safe.
it is estimated that every 27 hours u.s. citizens drink enough bottled water to circle the equator with empty bottles and each year more than 4 million of plastic containers go to the landfill nationwide.
not only that, minimizing exposure to beach  sand after an advisory is issued may be just as important.
it is estimated that every  27 hours u.s. citizens drink enough bottled water to circle the equator with  empty bottles and each year more than 4 million of plastic containers go to the  landfill nationwide.
we all know that drinking too much soda is bad for your teeth and waistline, but researchers have uncovered all sorts of other scary health effects of drinking coca cola, mountain dew, and their many soft drink relatives.
as bottled water can cost up to 1,900 times more than tap water, is it too much too expect to be well-informed on the product?
drink filtered tap water what are ewg’s recommendations then?
“researchers asked participants to drink either regular soda, milk  containing the same amount of calories as regular soda, diet cola, or water  every day for six months.
often advertised as an all-natural, low sugar alternative to sports drinks with healing properties far beyond exercise recovery, some nutritionists warn that coconut water isn’t all it’s cracked up to be.
bottled water vs tap water it may be a surprise, but most companies producing bottled water source it  from municipal tap (food and water watch data).
washing away the beverage marketing hype tuesday, april 3rd, 2012
it is hard to determine the number of gastroenteritis cases or other diseases caused by swimming in polluted water.
before long, they found themselves leading a  campaign.
it’s become an all to often event to read frightening headlines about just what has been found in the public water supply.
while  energy drinks are considered safe in reasonable quantities by the generally  healthy adult population, fox and smith are hearing anecdotal evidence that  overdoses are more and more common.
fox and smith began sporting their own “drink water” logo on their boards and apparel.
the public could also be better protected by improving water  quality testing speed, accuracy, and public notification systems.
no comments » america’s aging sewer system threatens beachgoers and swimmers tuesday, march 27th, 2012 your berkey water filter has been shown to effectively purify even  untreated water.
it may be a surprise, but most companies producing bottled water source it from municipal tap (food and water watch data).
on their blog they recount a conversation with a fellow postal customer after explaining their campaign: “lady: oh my god, thank god!
good quality systems successfully remove bacteria, chlorine, organic solvents, vocs, lead, mercury, nitrates and nitrites as well as other harmful substances.
sports drinks were designed to replenish nutrients lost by top athletes during hard exercise, but they are now marketed in lunch-box size packages and found as an alternative to soda in school vending machines.
because of this, it is most important to keep  beach sand out of the mouths of toddlers.
but unfortunately, your water filter can’t protect you  from water contamination if you swim in it.
pollution illnesses on the rise pollution at u.s. beaches exposes swimmers to a range of waterborne  illnesses and may cause stomach flu, skin rashes, pinkeye, ear, nose and throat  problems, dysentery, hepatitis, respiratory ailments, neurological disorders  and other serious health problems.
she called because the kid was  light headed, was sick to his stomach and his heart was racing, and you know  what i told her?
“surfers sometimes believe that they are immune to ocean-related illness,  because they have been surfing that same spot for years, or that the water  quality is not as bad as it is hyped up to be,” explains paloma aguirre,  spokesperson for the san diego-based environmental organizationwildcoast.
but unfortunately, your water filter can’t protect you from water contamination if you swim in it.
as bottled water can cost up to 1,900 times more than tap water, is it too  much too expect to be well-informed on the product?
reporters katherine hobson and angela haupt compared plain coconut water by zico with gatorade forusnews & world report: gatorade: 6.25 calories, 1.75 grams sugar, 3.75 mg potassium, 13.75 mg sodium (plain) zico: 5.45 calories, 1.3 grams sugar, 61 mg potassium, 5.45 mg sodium from a sugar and calories perspective, zico seems to be a slightly better choice, but, say hobson and haupt, if you are rehydrating from exercise, you actually want the sodium in gatorade more than the potassium in coconut water.
on their blog they recount a conversation  with a fellow postal customer after explaining their campaign: “lady: oh my god, thank god!
rdc and other public health advocates are calling for a variety of reforms that include increased funding for sewer treatment plant upgrades and sewage system repair.
i work at the county poison control center, and for years, when we got calls on caffeine overdoses, we never asked a follow up question for specifics.
both provide a great foundation for emergency preparedness.
according tothe center for food safety, “[h]uman health effects can include higher risks of toxicity, allergenicity, antibiotic resistance, immune-suppression and cancer.”
even the best scored brads were  not faultless.
dust masks - qty 2 hand and body warmers - qty 2 2 person tube tent - qty 1 deluxe first aid kit - qty 1 12 hour bright stick - qty 1 30 hour emergency candle - qty 1 wise food deluxe survival kit rather than doing hours of research and building your own food and supply kit, save yourself the time and energy with one purchase that’ll provide the essential preparedness supplies that you and your family will need.
if you’re ready to stop worrying about what is in your water and start enjoying a cleaner taste, then picking the right home water filter system is a great investment.
before long, they found themselves leading a campaign.
the product concept  is simple; an all-in-one emergency preparedness backpack that contains long  term food storage packets and emergency supplies like a flashlight, medical  kit, waterproof matches, knife, water bottle filter etc.
the drink water campaign now sells t-shirts, stickers and hoodies with the  following explanation: “drink water is a friendly reminder to drink  water.”
it has turned out, that nine of the best-selling brands, including pepsi,  coca-cola and nestle, do not answer at least one of the above questions.
total fat mass remained the same across  all beverage-consuming groups, but regular-soda drinkers experienced dramatic  increases in harmful hidden fats, including liver fat and skeletal fat,” the daily times reports.
here’s acomparison of berkey  and other top consumer water filters on the market.
“bacteria concentrate in sand as water rises and recedes with the  tides, leaving both the wet sand and the dry sand just beyond it more heavily  contaminated than the water.
monday, october 24th, 2011 after being out of stock for nearly 5 months, the very popular wise food  survival kits are now again available.
when it’s time to enjoy peace of mind, home water filters can deliver.
it can also be taken on the road during camping trips and more.
corn-syrup from sweetened beverages comes from genetically modified corn more than 85% of the corn grown in the united states is genetically modified (gmo).
both the  beverage companies and health canada assured the public that the levels of bpa  exposure from soda is not dangerous.
if you like your filtered water flavored, try adding a squeeze of  lemon, a slice of fresh ginger, a few peppermint leaves, or even an herbal tea  bag (yes, it works with cold water).
their main call is: drink  filtered tap water.
we believe theberkey water filter provides the highest quality filtration for the lowest initial and ongoing maintenance costs.
in the meantime, uranium continues to seep into the surrounding environment.
since most people probably drink  the whole 2.5-serving bottle at once, that calculation is more important.
these conditions include such hormonally  linked illnesses as breast cancer, and dr. vom saal called the  government’s assurances of no harm ‘simple-minded.’”
now, the  manufacturer has not only caught up on these back orders, but they have also  ramped up production operations and increased inventory reserves to  better handle the fervent demand that typically follows  the occurrence of a natural disaster.
according to nrdc, it’s not just surfers who are at risk.
sugarydrinkfacts.org reports that 5 hour energy ranked among the top 3 beverages most advertised to kids and the #1 most advertised to teens.
it can save you money and allow you to do your part in contributing to a cleaner environment.
if you do need sugar/electrolyte boost and those ingredients don’t sit well with you, a handful of salted pretzels with your water before or after exercise also provides easily digestible carbohydrates and sodium.
but what about other beverages touted as healthy or all natural, some of which  even use the word “water” in their label?
it is an upgrade containing everything found in the wise food essential survival kit described above in addition to these valuable supplies: emergency duffle bag on wheels - qty 1 aqua block water - qty 9 at 8.5 oz per container swiss army knife - qty 1 compact multi-function shovel - qty 1 5-in-1 survival whistle - qty 1 emergency ponchos - qty 2 deluxe hygiene kits - qty 2 niosh n95
bvo is patented as a flame retardant in japan and banned in food products in europe.
these have already proven to be a great investment over the past couple years as i’ve used the essential kit in two instances while on the road.
both the beverage companies and health canada assured the public that the levels of bpa exposure from soda is not dangerous.
in many urban areas, rain runoff from roofs and roads is directed into the  same pipes that carry household sewage to the local water treatment plant.
that compares to more than$4 per gallon for soda by the can.
berkey water delivers the performance you’re after, at the prices you can afford.
unless you are exercising hard for more than 90 minutes, sports drinks do no better than water in most hydration studies.
the drink water campaign now sells t-shirts, stickers and hoodies with the following explanation: “drink water is a friendly reminder to drink water.”
parents and doctors around the country have raised the alarm about the host of sugary drinks marketed to kids that contribute to obesity, diabetes, even ailments like kidney stones, once unheard of in kids.
i work at the county poison control  center, and for years, when we got calls on caffeine overdoses, we never asked  a follow up question for specifics.
it is hard to determine the number of gastroenteritis cases or other  diseases caused by swimming in polluted water.
taking yoursport berkey or other water bottle in the morning before you head out is a good way to both; keep drinking water, and staying away from unhealthy sports drinks and other sugary beverages.
coconut water often advertised as an all-natural, low sugar alternative to sports drinks  with healing properties far beyond exercise recovery, some nutritionists warn  that coconut water isn’t all it’s cracked up to be.
there is also a different berkey water filter model  available to accommodate every family size.
the  survey results have revealed that 18% of the products do not provide the  location of water source, 32% of brands do not disclose any information on the  treatment or quality of water, and 13% of product are supported by ‘water  quality reports’ that lack actual testing results.
it has turned out, that nine of the best-selling brands, including pepsi, coca-cola and nestle, do not answer at least one of the above questions.
if you are looking for a water filtration solution while you are on the go,  we encourage you to check out thesport berkey.
according to the natural resources defense council (nrdc), the advocacy  organization that calculated the beach-closing statistic, pollution from leaky  sewer pipes or overflows during heavy rains are a primary source of human  sewage pollution in waterways.
producing bottled water also has a high carbon footprint price – it takes 20,000 times more energy to produce bottled water than the same amount of tap water.
but what about other beverages touted as healthy or all natural, some of which even use the word “water” in their label?
i just had a mom call in last week, and  her 8 year old had drunk a 6 pack of *******.
a good quality domestic filter system lasts over 10 years.