dr. marc gorelick, chief of  pediatric emergency medicine at the medical college of wisconsin, led a group  of researchers that studied the incidence of illnesses following rainfall.
the pennsylvania dep’s decision helps confirm a trend in which  individual us states are taking a less lenient stance towards shale gas  drilling and its potential health and environmental effects.
based on previous usgs research, this 19 percent of wells that were discovered in this study compare with 7 percent of wells contaminated with nitrates and 1 to 2 percent for pesticides and volatile organic compounds.
however, those using private sources and wells for water should be cautious, especially when farm animals are present, as these sources typically do not have routine e. coli monitoring.
some of  this methane contamination, also referred to virally on the web as  “tap water catching on fire”, could be seen in thehbo documentary  gasland, and reaffirms many of the concerns brought about by the  film.
we’ve stressed the importance of conservation of karsts before as most folks do not realize that once these groundwater supplies are contaminated naturally or by human pollution, it is very difficult and expensive to reverse the condition.
one of these water purifiers is the berkey water filter.
these  were not isolated to a couple regions, but rather found to be persistent  nationwide stating, “wells with human health benchmark exceedances were  widespread across the united states; they occurred in all aquifer groups and in  both humid and dry regions.”
when e. coli  contaminates your drinking water, one should either avoid drinking it  completely, or render it safe by boiling the water or purifying it with a high  quality water filter.
researchers found  that the average number of emergency room visits increased by 11 percent for  four days after any amount of rainfall.
ultimately what occurs is that rivers and lakes that would normally be naturally replenished begin to dry up under the high demand of urban and residential growth.
tags: contaminated drinking water, emergency preparedness posted in contaminated drinking water, emergency preparedness |
however, they also contaminate the wells indirectly by surface water runoff flowing into the underground waterway systems and ultimately finding their resting spots in karsts and water aquifers that these wells feed off of.
in more populated ares, polluted floodwater is typically an even bigger  concern as it mixes and contaminates the water supplies of municipal water  systems.
we also recommend a home water filter like the berkey to remove these harmful trace elements from the water.
we’ve seen  this in ny as the battle between environmentalists/homeowners and natural gas  companies continues to heat up with drilling bans in place.
joseph ayotte makes another statement many should pay heed to.
according to mclellan, water leaving milwaukee’s treatment plant is very high quality.
why do weather extremes like this affect drinking water?
if you have determined that your drinking water is contaminated, then one of the the safest procedures is to boil your water.
if ingested, this  bacteria can result in serious sickness and even death.
hurricane rain is not just unadulterated distilled water.
contaminants in our drinking water
after all, it is monitored regularly by law.
radon gas decays into radioactive particles that can get trapped in your lungs when you breathe it.. ..radon in indoor air is the second leading cause of lung cancer.”
from  there the water goes to water towers for pressure, and then to homes, schools,  businesses, and the like.
extreme rainfall can deluge sewage systems, especially those systems that  are called upon to manage both waste water and storm water runoff.
that  much water inevitably has the potential to be very destructive!
fixing leaky pipes could triple u.s. water bills wednesday, march  7th, 2012
needed repairs are “going to challenge many communities, particularly  those where they’ve been experiencing economic problems, and also in some  places where the population has declined.
children under five, the elderly,  and those with weak immune systems are the most vulnerable.
the american people are coping with many other personal and financial issues, and unless it makes headlines, they are unaware of the continuing destruction of our water sources thanks to human pollution.
our city not only removes these unwanted chemicals and contaminants, but also makes their own chemical additions to the water; “the water is also chlorinated for disinfection andfluoride is added for dental purposes before it is pumped into the water pipe system.”
as our lands continue to be treated  with fertilizers and chemicals, in concert with continued land  development, population growth, and industry pollution we experience an ever  increasing trickling of chemical waste into our groundwater systems  and waterways.
as a  result, an increased amount of contaminants and health effecting trace minerals  have seeped into these wells unnoticed.
basically, the longer  the water has been in contact with the aquifer, the  more chemically evolved it is deemed to be and thus the greater  concentrations of these trace minerals, some of which are harmful to the body  such as arsenic and radon.
two lessons emerge from this study.
for the first time a national study has been conducted testing for potential trace contaminants in wells and aquifers.
obviously better  insulation of these chemicals from the environment is a move in the right  direction, but both issues need to be addressed fully.
our city not only removes these unwanted chemicals and  contaminants, but also makes their own chemical additions to the water;  “the water is also chlorinated for disinfection andfluoride is added for  dental purposes before it is pumped into the water pipe system.”
this is not an problem that can be ignored.
at the rate of one a month, the atlantic ocean will surely reach its predicted quota.
hurricane rain is  not just unadulterated distilled water.
any person who has sudden bloody diarrhea should get their  stool tested for e. coli o157:h7 immediately.
first, if you are served by a private well, it is wise to have it tested regularly as water quality changes as the surrounding environment changes.
with this strain of e. coli, antibiotics should be avoided as they can some  exacerbate kidney problems.
for example, if you live in a flood plain, or along the  coasts where hurricanes (or typhoons on the pacific coast) may occur, it would  be wise to stock up on food, clean water or a water filter, and at least a 2  day responder pack for your family.
the geochemistry of groundwater changes in time due to the  contact with it’s aquifer materials.
the study concluded that the incidence  of waterborne illnesses occur more frequently even after comparatively mild  rain events.
as our lands continue to be treated with fertilizers and chemicals, in concert with continued land development, population growth, and industry pollution we experience an ever increasing trickling of chemical waste into our groundwater systems and waterways.
meanwhile, as this gets worked out, the risks to your health ever increase without a home water filter.
these variables affect water after it leaves the treatment plant and makes  it difficult to guarantee that water exiting the tap will be consistently safe.
theberkey filter will provide clean drinking and cooking water you  could trust for the duration of the disaster that you experience.
regional water infrastructure costs “the needs uncovered in ‘buried no longer’ are large, but they are not insurmountable,” said awwa executive director david lafrance.
currently, there seems to be a thought that contamination is a result of inadequate well casing and cementing.
a copy of the study can be foundhere.
we’ve seen this in ny as the battle between environmentalists/homeowners and natural gas companies continues to heat up with drilling bans in place.
no comments » around the world, freshwater sources are shrinking as lake, river and aquifer levels are falling faster than can be replenished.
in addition, there are high  quality water purifiers on the market that will also remove e. coli.
it began with me returning to the water quality report that i recently  received.
a great example of this is las vegas, nv where water is routed from hundreds of  miles away and is recognized as the lifeline to it’s survival.
this can apply to all wells especially since we are seeing a large  increase in the amount of undergroundkarsts and aquifers that are being  contaminated by humans.
the storm hampered cleanup progress of the bp oil disaster that started on april 20th and there is still serious concern that oil could be blown and stretched out across the gulf of mexico and it’s beaches over the next couple months.
it was a bit surprising how many of these trace elements had  exceedances of human health benchmarks, especially compared to other  contaminants we are often concerned about.
this condition is a life threatening and may require blood transfusions and kidney dialysis as treatments.
there is a peace of mind in knowing that you have water security for you and your family in the event of a potential hurricane disaster.
however, keeping  facilities manned, maintained and up to date is not cheap and requires  substantial taxpayer dollars.
in addition, there are high quality water purifiers on the market that will also remove e. coli.
joseph ayotte, one of the researchers and a hydrologist with the u.s.g.s. states ”it was a bit surprising how many of these trace elements had exceedances of human health benchmarks, especially compared to other contaminants we are often concerned about.
a great example of this is las vegas, nv where water is routed from hundreds of miles away and is recognized as the lifeline to it’s survival.
however, this pressure can fail after a water main break results in a breach.
there is a  peace of mind in knowing that you have water security for you and your family  in the event of a potential hurricane disaster.
instead fifteen wells provide on average 9.25 million gallons of water per day.
disturbance of natural waterways another contributor to the depletion and contamination of our water sources  is the fact that housing development is no longer limited to geographical  locations with a ready source of water.
this water essentially has a negative impact on any  source of drinking water it touches.
here we show the study results in map form for radon: radon well contamination levels
the resulting environmental waste water is re-routed to man-made runoff areas.
the cold hard fact is that there exists an inability for private and government organizations to keep pace in identifying and filtering out the swelling number of chemicals that continue to show up in our water supply.
also, it’s imperative that we become more proactive as a society in protecting our existing water supplies for future generations.
estimates vary dramatically at the local  level, depending on the age of the community’s pipes and the size of the  system: “in the most affected small communities, the study suggests that a  typical three-person household could see its drinking water bill increase by as  much as $550 per year above current levels . . .
even in communities with state of the art  treatment facilities, the infrastructure that connects these facilities to  homes, businesses, and schools is often in dire need of repair and maintenance.
in a very notable decision, the department of environmental protection of  pennsylvania has fined the chesapeake energy corp. 1.1 million for  contaminating the water supplies of local residents.
yet even though we’ve seen the devastation of a hurricane like katrina, how many of us are fully prepared?
for example, if you live in a flood plain, or along the coasts where hurricanes (or typhoons on the pacific coast) may occur, it would be wise to stock up on food, clean water or a water filter, and at least a 2 day responder pack for your family.
this is left to be seen,  but they are officially on notice,… as are the other companies that are  engaged in the practice of fracking as quickly as possible in this  gas-land-grab.
you might ask, “is my drinking water vulnerable to e. coli  o157:h7?”
no comments » water treatment plants are charged with keeping our water free of bacteria, poisonous chemicals, parasites and other waterborne toxins.
with this strain of e. coli, antibiotics should be avoided as they can some exacerbate kidney problems.
given we’re well into the hurricane season, there’s no better time to discuss the importance of preparing you and your family for the dangers.
many were given a pass under the impression that fining would be counterproductive to cash-strapped municipalities.
in more populated ares, polluted floodwater is typically an even bigger concern as it mixes and contaminates the water supplies of municipal water systems.
this condition is a life threatening and may  require blood transfusions and kidney dialysis as treatments.
arsenic well contamination here we show the study results in map form for arsenic: arsenic well contamination levels
do you research as many  disaster survival companies have just the sort of supplies you would need.
this is particularly noticeable in rural  areas where high volumes of run-off from fields containing fertilizers and  other chemicals can quicklycontaminate  karsts and private wells.
these pipes are kept under pressure and are designed to keep contaminants out of the treated water.
according to the study, the estimate of those potentially at risk are 6.5 million households, or approximately 26 million people!
another contributor to the depletion and contamination of our water sources is the fact that housing development is no longer limited to geographical locations with a ready source of water.
researchers found that the average number of emergency room visits increased by 11 percent for four days after any amount of rainfall.
basically, the longer the water has been in contact with the aquifer, the more chemically evolved it is deemed to be and thus the greater concentrations of these trace minerals, some of which are harmful to the body such as arsenic and radon.
this is due to the fact that these wells are not monitored by any  agency and are not regulated.
though our city of 64,000 is located on a major river, the city does  not get it’s water from that river.
the reality is  that has been a growing problem for decades now.
however e. coli o157:h7 is an  exception; as it produces a powerful toxin.
upon dep conclusion it was determined that the drinking  water contamination had been caused by natural gas drilling and that  “improper well casing and cementing in shallow zones” allowed gas  from deep basins to seep into drinking water aquifers.
manganese well contamination here we show the study results in map form for manganese: manganese well contamination levels the epa does not have primary health risks associated with  manganese, rather they set secondary standards due to impacts  “such as the corrosion of iron and copper, may stain household  fixtures, and impart objectionable metallic taste and red or blue-green color  to the water supply as well.
no comments  » 19% of us drinking wells contaminated according to usgs study thursday, october 13th, 2011
but other foreseeable problems can be a part  of the preparation.
the american water works association is a membership organization of the  nation’s public utility companies and is advocating increased federal  funding for water infrastructure.
conducted by the united  states geological survey, it was found that overall 19 percent of the 5,183  tested untreated public, private and monitoring wells exceeded health-based  safety standards.
a total of 20 trace elements were monitored in the study.
that may be too optimistic.
when private drinking water wells were removed from the data  set, it was found that a surprising 13 percent of all private wells  exceeded the health standards or guidelines.
all the while, most residents are completely unaware that their valuable water resources are being increasingly contaminated while also slowly diminishing in availability.
with all of these conditions persisting, it’s no wonder that public concerned interest in our water resources and drinking water quality is exponentially rising.
it highlights failures and obvious enforcement gaps in current government regulations that we’ve assumed are protecting our drinking water, including the realization that 20 percent of the nation’s water treatment systems have violated key provisions of the safe drinking water act.
tags: contaminated drinking water, home water filter posted in home  water filter |
but in the west and south, where communities have newer systems but growing populations, laying pipes to new development will be a much bigger component of water bill increases.
needed investments would be consistent with annual per household cost increases ranging from roughly $75 to more than $100 per year by the mid-2030s . . .”
these minerals are not a health concern and are  removed because they can discolor the water and create a slight taste of  iron.”
» how do hurricanes affect drinking water?
the 2010 report card recently released by the american society of civil engineers gave pennsylvania’s water and waste water management systems failing grades.
according to the epa website on the dangers of arsenic, ” non-cancer effects can include thickening and discoloration of the skin, stomach pain, nausea, vomiting; diarrhea; numbness in hands and feet; partial paralysis; and blindness.
arsenic has been linked to cancer of the bladder, lungs, skin, kidney, nasal passages, liver, and prostate.”
with this many americans potentially at risk, we  also strongly advocate that home owners take the necessary steps  to test their wells on a yearly basis.
these were not isolated to a couple regions, but rather found to be persistent nationwide stating, “wells with human health benchmark exceedances were widespread across the united states; they occurred in all aquifer groups and in both humid and dry regions.”
however, just because the water comes from wells does not mean it is ready  for use.
children under five, the elderly, and those with weak immune systems are the most vulnerable.
evidence but not proof of ingestion includes severe bloody diarrhea, abdominal cramps, or non-bloody diarrhea.
as we all now, a hurricane is like a giant tornado, with winds circulating  around a calm center at 75 mph or more.
however, concerns over water supply contamination seem to be based on variables other than some would agree with.
the cold hard fact is that there exists an inability  for private and government organizations to keep pace in identifying and  filtering out the swelling number of chemicals that continue to show up in our  water supply.
you have a smaller customer base that has to pay a bigger bill, and that’s never a welcome circumstance,” aurel arndt, general manager of the lehigh county authority and advisory council member,explained to the huffington post.
an inch of rain drops 65,000 tons of  water per square mile, and the average hurricane covers 8000 square miles!
storm water runoff that would normally seep through the porous ground must often find its own path across toxic paved areas.
well contamination here we show the study results in map form for radon: radon well contamination levels
the report goes on, “the treatment plant then  filters the water to remove iron and manganese before it is pumped into the  water distribution system.
as long as we continue to increase our use of chemicals in  products and manufacturing, then it’s a safe bet to assume that the  chemicals and contaminants found in our water will continue to increase in  lockstep.
this would obviously make cleanup much more difficult than it already is.
as was  mentioned in ourlead in our drinking water post, schools are far from exempt  from this poor water quality problem, as a more recent article by the nyt on  dec 8th covers;senate environment and public works committee hearing on epa  school water quality we need to continue to increase out awareness of how we  affect the water supply through pollution and daily living habits, but we must  also be aware that water we had originally assumed was healthy for consumption  may require a run through a qualitywater filter prior to drinking.
in addition, while not discussed nor a focus of the usgs study, a major and  still growing problem is pollution.
wisconsin - milwaukee’s great lakes w.a.t.e.r. institute (wisconsin  aquatic technology and environmental research).
the storm hampered cleanup  progress of the bp oil disaster that started on april 20th and there is still  serious concern that oil could be blown and stretched out across the gulf of  mexico and it’s beaches over the next couple months.
hurricane katrina the destructive power of a hurricane is in the wind, but also in the amount of water it drops.
the study reviewed data detailing the number of emergency room visits by children due to gastroenteritis or diarrhea.
this constant change and reactions  with minerals is considered chemical evolution.
an inch of rain drops 65,000 tons of water per square mile, and the average hurricane covers 8000 square miles!
for all of  these reasons, it is increasingly important for individuals to monitor the  water quality from their faucets and ensure they have a qualitywater filter at  their disposal.
not stressed enough in this report is the fact that the study analysis is based on nawqa (national water-quality assessment) program data collected from 1992 to 2003.
the wells that were found to be most at risk were the private wells used by homeowners.
dr. gorelick stated that the mystery “is what happens to water between the time it leaves the treatment plant and gets to your tap.”
the study reviewed data detailing the number of emergency room visits by  children due to gastroenteritis or diarrhea.
the condition of infrastructure in pennsylvania and across the nation has been in the spotlight as federal stimulus dollars begin to dry up.
it can often contain chemicals similar  to acid rain yet also churn up undrinkable salt water from the ocean that  causes corrosive damage.
well completion operations in pennsylvania, saw several thousand gallons of  drilling fluid escape into local waterways.
chesapeake has stated that they are accepting the fine and are making a concerted effort towards improving the raised issues.
dr. marc gorelick, chief of pediatric emergency medicine at the medical college of wisconsin, led a group of researchers that studied the incidence of illnesses following rainfall.
study collaborator sandra mclellan is a senior scientist at the university  of
the american people are coping with  many other personal and financial issues, and unless it makes headlines, they  are unaware of the continuing destruction of our water sources thanks to human  pollution.
instead the  hurricane moved across the gulf and slammed into mexico, leaving several dead  and millions of dollars in damage.
as i’ve written about in earlier articles, this is partly a byproduct  of the public’s assumption that our drinking water is safe with no  spotlight being placed on the regulators.
ultimately what occurs is that  rivers and lakes that would normally be naturally replenished begin to dry up  under the high demand of urban and residential growth.
as a result, the report recommends homeowners consider purchasing ahome water filter to purify  their drinking water to protect themselves from these trace  contaminants.
public water is by law constantly monitored for all bacterial  contamination.
estimates vary dramatically at the local level, depending on the age of the community’s pipes and the size of the system: “in the most affected small communities, the study suggests that a typical three-person household could see its drinking water bill increase by as much as $550 per year above current levels . . .
however, this summer i was washing my car and i realized that if i didn’t wipe the windows, the evaporated water would leave white stains on the glass.
theberkey filter will provide clean drinking and cooking water you could trust for the duration of the disaster that you experience.
as the nyt points out, water treatment facilities are struggling with the current identified list of monitored contaminants, but this is only half the story.
storm water  and wastewater can then mix and overflow, ultimately resulting in contaminated  drinking water.
this will  guarantee that your water is safe, even if something unhealthy sneaks in  unnoticed.
as a result, an increased amount of contaminants and health effecting trace minerals have seeped into these wells unnoticed.
tags: arsenic well contamination, contaminated drinking water, home water  filter, radon well contamination posted in home water filter |
you have a smaller customer base that  has to pay a bigger bill, and that’s never a welcome circumstance,”  aurel arndt, general manager of the lehigh county authority and advisory  council member,explained to the huffington post.
they did not state why the water  utility does not use river water but i assume that, in the past, it was too  easy to contaminate an open source, especially with manufacturing plants  located on the banks.
corrosion of distribution system pipes can reduce water flow.”
for all of these reasons, it is increasingly important for individuals to monitor the water quality from their faucets and ensure they have a qualitywater filter at their disposal.
most of the hundreds of strains of e. coli are harmless and live in the intestines of healthy humans and animals.
according to the study, the estimate of those  potentially at risk are 6.5 million households, or approximately 26 million  people!
tags: contaminated drinking water, drinking water contamination, fracking  contamination posted in contaminated drinking water |
this can apply to all wells especially since we are seeing a large increase in the amount of undergroundkarsts and aquifers that are being contaminated by humans.
damage to municipal water pipes is often a part of storm destruction, and this means that safe drinking water is unable to get to homes and individuals on that pipeline for days, weeks, and sometimes months.
many of these chemicals seep and soak through the sediment impacting our wells directly.
tags: arsenic well contamination, contaminated drinking water, home water filter, radon well contamination posted in home water filter |
this is evident when the red blood cells are  destroyed and the kidneys fail.
this can  be more dangerous as an individual can experience a slow growing health issue  over many years.
no comments » outdated water infrastructures may be a health hazard thursday,  september 30th, 2010 water treatment plants are charged with keeping our water free of bacteria,  poisonous chemicals, parasites and other waterborne toxins.
as the nyt points out, water treatment facilities are  struggling with the current identified list of monitored contaminants, but this  is only half the story.
when e. coli contaminates your drinking water, one should either avoid drinking it completely, or render it safe by boiling the water or purifying it with a high quality water filter.
the primary question we have to ask ourselves is: how have these concentrations gotten so high putting so many us citizens at risk, and how does one protect their family?there are two primary causes for these major well changes; natural chemical evolution / groundwater age, and pollution.
however, it was not all good news for the u.s..
this is in large portion due to the fact that these trace elements build up in the body over time and can cause a slow degradation of health.
tags: contaminated drinking water, drinking water, drinking water quality, municipal water, quality water filter, water pollution posted in contaminated drinking water | 3 comments » big berkey water filters is proudly powered by wordpress entries (rss) andcomments (rss).
household ‘grey  water’, the water waste from sinks and washing is increasingly  contaminated with household chemicals.
it began with me returning to the water quality report that i recently received.
according to mclellan, water  leaving milwaukee’s treatment plant is very high quality.
he states,  “we often get more upset about these anthropogenic contaminants but we  have to remember that these naturally occurring elements are often times more  of a widespread problem.
however, keeping facilities manned, maintained and up to date is not cheap and requires substantial taxpayer dollars.
today, people routinely live in areas  where water must be transported hundreds of miles from a distant water source.
extreme weather and our drinking water why do weather extremes like this affect drinking water?
this can also be an issue after rainfall saturates the surrounding soil, allowing contaminated water to leach into the piping system.
not to diminish the importance of the others, but trace elements are also hugely important and arguably more so.”
“the water well contamination fine is the largest single penalty dep has ever assessed against an oil and gas operator, and the avella tank fire penalty is the highest we could assess under the oil and gas act,” said mike krancer, who heads the state agency.
with the ability to remove e. coli bacteria to a log 7 degree, or 99.99999%, theberkey water filter will render contaminated drinking water safe to drink.
now, this more toxic soup of water  runoff either saturates the surrounding land or gets routed through community  sewer systems to water treatment plants where industrial filtration attempts to  make it drinkable.
however, just because the water comes from wells does not mean it is ready for use.
the report goes on, “the treatment plant then filters the water to remove iron and manganese before it is pumped into the water distribution system.
it highlights failures and obvious enforcement gaps in current  government regulations that we’ve assumed are protecting our drinking  water, including the realization that 20 percent of the nation’s water  treatment systems have violated key provisions of the safe drinking water act.
“when you consider everything that tap water delivers —  public health protection, fire protection, support for the economy, the quality  of life we enjoy – we owe it to future generations to confront the  infrastructure challenge today.”
what’s in our drinking water?
katrina, for example, dropped 15 inches of rain in some  regions in less than a 24 hour period.
that individual and their doctor may struggle to isolate the  root cause and not recognize that it could be harmful trace elements  from their own well water.
tags: berkey water filter ecoli, contaminated drinking water, contamination  of drinking water, ecoli drinking water posted in berkey water filter,  contaminated drinking water | 1 comment » 20% of municipalities violate safe drinking water act - nyt reports saturday, december 12th, 2009
evidence but not proof of ingestion  includes severe bloody diarrhea, abdominal cramps, or non-bloody diarrhea.
in the northeast and midwest, repair of existing systems will be the primary cost increase driver.
in addition, while not discussed nor a focus of the usgs study, a major and still growing problem is pollution.
this statement directly corresponds to  the radon dangers this study has found.
these are very efficient in removing virtually  anything that may threaten your health such as pathogenic bacteria and  chemicals.
in this way, even moderate rainfall or water events can contribute to drinking water contamination.
this water essentially has a negative impact on any source of drinking water it touches.
the answer to that mystery likely lies in an aging infrastructure of pipes  used to transport water.
this places a large percentage of the  population at an increased risk from their drinking water as these once  plentiful and pristine sources are becoming contaminated and scarce.
many were given a pass under the  impression that fining would be counterproductive to cash-strapped  municipalities.
also, it’s imperative that we become more proactive  as a society in protecting our existing water supplies for future generations.
here we show the study results in map form for manganese: manganese well contamination levels the epa does not have primary health risks associated with manganese, rather they set secondary standards due to impacts “such as the corrosion of iron and copper, may stain household fixtures, and impart objectionable metallic taste and red or blue-green color to the water supply as well.
joseph ayotte, one of the researchers and a hydrologist with the u.s.g.s.  states ”
more can learned about this phenomenon in our article reviewing the importance ofkarst conservation.
the reality is that has been a growing problem for decades now.
in one referenced example, “the e.p.a. has reported that more than three million americans have been exposed since 2005 to drinking water with illegal concentrations of arsenic and radioactive elements, both of which have been linked to cancer at small doses.”
friday, september 24th, 2010
extreme rainfall can deluge sewage systems, especially those systems that are called upon to manage both waste water and storm water runoff.
it is estimated that worldwide water consumption doubles every 20 years, with predictions that demand will surpass supply within 30 years.
impacting our wells directly.
tags: contaminated drinking water, drinking water, water filter posted  indrinking water, water filter |
water quality (un)enforcement the discovery that municipalities fail water quality reports is nothing  new, but what’s a little surprising is that the majority of   municipalities that received violations were never penalized for their failures  in meeting water safety requirements.
for this reason, spending the time and resources finding ahome water filter  should be a top priority.
first, if you are served by a private  well, it is wise to have it tested regularly as water quality changes as the  surrounding environment changes.
children were studied because they, along with the elderly and those in poor health, are the first ones to become ill following an assault upon their immune systems.
in many u.s. communities the system of water and sewer pipes, mains and treatment plants that deliver drinking water and sanitation are aging and in need of repair.
purchasing a berkey water purifier is a relatively inexpensive way to provide peace of mind for you and your family.
in doing so, i quickly learned that while  we consider well and city water to be inherently safe to drink, this many times  is far from the case.
the results of a recent study indicate that it may not even take a severe rain event to cause contamination of tap water.
local governments are looking to the commonwealth’s h2o funding announcements to help cover a small portion, but it is estimated that more than $25 billion will be required.
for water security, we recommend purchasing a gravity fed water filter like  the berkey water filter.
according to the epa website on the dangers of arsenic,  ” non-cancer effects can include thickening and discoloration of the skin,  stomach pain, nausea, vomiting; diarrhea; numbness in hands and feet; partial  paralysis; and blindness.
second, even if you live on tested city water, it would be wise to  take precaution and filter your drinking water with a high quality purifier  like the black berkey, found in all ourberkey water filters.
if ingested, this bacteria can result in serious sickness and even death.
this can be more dangerous as an individual can experience a slow growing health issue over many years.
during rainfalls, snow melts, or other types of precipitation, e. coli may be washed into creeks, rivers, streams, lakes, or ground water.
in the largest water systems, costs can be spread over a large population base.
you might ask, “is my drinking water vulnerable to e. coli o157:h7?”
in the largest water systems,  costs can be spread over a large population base.
when private drinking water wells were removed from the data set, it was found that a surprising 13 percent of all private wells exceeded the health standards or guidelines.
the findings certainly underscore the message we hear from the public health agencies, that everyone should test their wells for a suite of trace elements.
this will guarantee that your water is safe, even if something unhealthy sneaks in unnoticed.
this week, the new york times reported on it’s disturbing findings of  an investigation into the us municipal water systems that serve millions of  americans.
given the statements in the  report and prior historical data, our feeling is that these harmful levels have  most likely inclined, not declined since this data was collected.
because water delivery is funded primarily from utility bills, awwa estimates the increased cost for repair and expansion of drinking water systems at $100 - $550 or more per household.
however, those using private sources and wells for water should  be cautious, especially when farm animals are present, as these sources  typically do not have routine e. coli monitoring.
given we’re well into the hurricane season, there’s no better time  to discuss the importance of preparing you and your family for the dangers.
for water security, we recommend purchasing a gravity fed water filter like the berkey water filter.
frequently, a fever will not be one of the symptoms.
tags: contaminated drinking water, emergency preparedness posted in  contaminated drinking water, emergency preparedness |
this constant change and reactions with minerals is considered chemical evolution.
this places a large percentage of the population at an increased risk from their drinking water as these once plentiful and pristine sources are becoming contaminated and scarce.
tags: contaminated drinking water posted in contaminated drinking water |no comments »
this is evident when the red blood cells are destroyed and the kidneys fail.
these variables affect water after it leaves the treatment plant and makes it difficult to guarantee that water exiting the tap will be consistently safe.
in a very notable decision, the department of environmental protection of pennsylvania has fined the chesapeake energy corp. 1.1 million for contaminating the water supplies of local residents.
initial fear that alex would strike florida proved unfounded.
but other foreseeable problems can be a part of the preparation.
not stressed enough in this report is the fact that  the study analysis is based on nawqa (national water-quality assessment)
waters that were once generously replenished and filtered by nature are now being depleted and soiled by humans.
this fracking soup of chemicals are known to be very  toxic and environmentalists are concerned that the eye may be taken off the  ball if the focus is simply on the casing/cementing.
this is a step in the right direction and it seems that the public’s outcry for caution due to water contamination from fracking is being heeded by state officials and more importantly the organization that is designed to protect our environment from careless resource removal.
to accomplish this, the natural course of rivers gets rerouted without consideration for the long-term implications.
as we all now, a hurricane is like a giant tornado, with winds circulating around a calm center at 75 mph or more.
purchasing a berkey water  purifier is a relatively inexpensive way to provide peace of mind for you and  your family.
this is particularly noticeable in rural areas where high volumes of run-off from fields containing fertilizers and other chemicals can quicklycontaminate karsts and private wells.
but in the west and south, where communities have  newer systems but growing populations, laying pipes to new development will be  a much bigger component of water bill increases.
the wells that were found to be most at risk were the private wells used by  homeowners.
in reality it is the chemical  substances used for the fracking that cause the drinking water  contamination.
the three that were shown to have the highest levels werearsenic, radon, and manganese.
aging infrastructure places the community’s drinking  water at risk of contamination and we see this on a weekly basis around the us  with reported bacteria outbreaks and boiling requirements.
the american water works association is a membership organization of the nation’s public utility companies and is advocating increased federal funding for water infrastructure.
tags: aging water infrastructure, contaminated drinking water, drinking water contamination posted in contaminated drinking water |
in addition, the usefulness of water contained in these natural reservoirs is being compromised by pollution from industrial and household chemicals.
in reality it is the chemical substances used for the fracking that cause the drinking water contamination.
they did not state why the water utility does not use river water but i assume that, in the past, it was too easy to contaminate an open source, especially with manufacturing plants located on the banks.
symptoms usually appear within two to four days, but could take longer.
2010 hurricane season the hurricane season starts june 1st and ends november 30th, and again this  year (2010) the national hurricane center has predicted an above average number  of storms in the atlantic.
obviously better insulation of these chemicals from the environment is a move in the right direction, but both issues need to be addressed fully.
the addition of chlorine, or treatment of water with ultra-violet light or ozone will kill or inactivate this strain of e. coli.
at the rate of one a month, the atlantic  ocean will surely reach its predicted quota.
recovery within five to ten days usually follows  without antibiotics.
it is estimated that  worldwide water consumption doubles every 20 years, with predictions that  demand will surpass supply within 30 years.
breathing radon in indoor air can cause lung  cancer.
when these waters are used as sources of drinking water and the water is not adequately treated, e. coli may be inadvertently ingested.
tap water pipe repairs will cost households up to $550 more per year because water delivery is funded primarily from utility bills, awwa  estimates the increased cost for repair and expansion of drinking water systems  at $100 - $550 or more per household.
this is a step in the right direction and it seems that the public’s  outcry for caution due to water contamination from fracking is being  heeded by state officials and more importantly the organization that is  designed to protect our environment from careless resource removal.
when these  waters are used as sources of drinking water and the water is not adequately  treated, e. coli may be inadvertently ingested.
aging infrastructure places the community’s drinking water at risk of contamination and we see this on a weekly basis around the us with reported bacteria outbreaks and boiling requirements.
the city must have theirs tested for epa  regulated contaminants every year, and larger cities have to run tests on their  water daily.
radon gas decays into radioactive particles that can get trapped in  your lungs when you breathe it.. ..radon in indoor air is the second leading  cause of lung cancer.”
”for interested customers,  the berkey pf-2 filters are used inside the lower chamber of our home water  filter system for removing arsenic from the water.
second, even if you live on tested city water, it would be wise to take precaution and filter your drinking water with a high quality purifier like the black berkey, found in all ourberkey water filters.
the hurricane season starts june 1st and ends november 30th, and again this year (2010) the national hurricane center has predicted an above average number of storms in the atlantic.
storm water and wastewater can then mix and overflow, ultimately resulting in contaminated drinking water.
“the water well contamination fine is the largest single penalty dep  has ever assessed against an oil and gas operator, and the avella tank fire  penalty is the highest we could assess under the oil and gas act,” said  mike krancer, who heads the state agency.
this is due to the fact that these wells are not monitored by any agency and are not regulated.
the answer to that mystery likely lies in an aging infrastructure of pipes used to transport water.
the discovery that municipalities fail water quality reports is nothing new, but what’s a little surprising is that the majority of municipalities that received violations were never penalized for their failures in meeting water safety requirements.
from there the water goes to water towers for pressure, and then to homes, schools, businesses, and the like.
conducted by the united states geological survey, it was found that overall 19 percent of the 5,183 tested untreated public, private and monitoring wells exceeded health-based safety standards.
in addition, the  usefulness of water contained in these natural reservoirs is being compromised  by pollution from industrial and household chemicals.
in one referenced example, “the e.p.a. has  reported that more than three million americans have been exposed since 2005 to  drinking water with illegal concentrations of arsenic and radioactive elements,  both of which have been linked to cancer at small doses.”
no comments » where has all the water gone? sunday, february 27th, 2011 around the world, freshwater sources are shrinking as lake, river and  aquifer levels are falling faster than can be replenished.
this would obviously  make cleanup much more difficult than it already is.
even in communities with state of the art treatment facilities, the infrastructure that connects these facilities to homes, businesses, and schools is often in dire need of repair and maintenance.
that much water inevitably has the potential to be very destructive!
no comments  » chesapeake energy company fined in drinking water contamination wednesday, may 25th, 2011
regardless, protection with a home water filter is essential for homeowners whose wells have been compromised by these harmful trace minerals or chemical pollutants.
that was good news for the united states, but of course bad news for mexico.
these sorts of  “mishaps” not only threaten to contaminate our own drinking water,  but also destroy existence of any animal, fish, and plant life in the affected  and surrounding regions.
to  accomplish this, the natural course of rivers gets rerouted without  consideration for the long-term implications.
according to the epa website on radon; “radon in water is only a concern if your drinking water comes from underground, such as a well that pumps water from an aquifer.
with  all of these conditions persisting, it’s no wonder that public concerned  interest in our water resources and drinking water quality is exponentially  rising.
this has serious ramifications to our public health and needs to be regarded as such.
one  of these water purifiers is the berkey water filter.
the condition of infrastructure in pennsylvania and across the nation has  been in the spotlight as federal stimulus dollars begin to dry up.
the pennsylvania dep’s decision helps confirm a trend in which individual us states are taking a less lenient stance towards shale gas drilling and its potential health and environmental effects.
“when you consider everything that tap water delivers — public health protection, fire protection, support for the economy, the quality of life we enjoy – we owe it to future generations to confront the infrastructure challenge today.”
“if this is pure water, why  would it stain the window?”
“if this is pure water, why would it stain the window?”
one additional poignant usgs statement was that harmful elements  “far outpace” other pollutants, many of which get far more public  attention.
in many u.s. communities the system of water and sewer pipes, mains and  treatment plants that deliver drinking water and sanitation are aging and in  need of repair.
no comments » e. coli, short for escherichia coli, is a type of fecal coliform bacteria commonly found in the intestines of animals and humans.
this is in large portion due to the fact that these trace elements build  up in the body over time and can cause a slow degradation of health.
however, this summer i was washing  my car and i realized that if i didn’t wipe the windows, the evaporated  water would leave white stains on the glass.
damage to municipal water pipes is often a part of storm destruction,  and this means that safe drinking water is unable to get to homes and  individuals on that pipeline for days, weeks, and sometimes months.
today, people routinely live in areas where water must be transported hundreds of miles from a distant water source.
this has serious ramifications to our public health and needs  to be regarded as such.
tags: contaminated drinking water, drinking water, water filter posted indrinking water, water filter |
the state agency said that throughout 2010 it investigated complaints of methane contamination in the drinking water of several residential water wells in northeastern pa.
the results of a recent study indicate that it may not even take a severe  rain event to cause contamination of tap water.
according to the epa website on radon; “radon in water is only a  concern if your drinking water comes from underground, such as a well that  pumps water from an aquifer.
all the while, most  residents are completely unaware that their valuable water resources are being  increasingly contaminated while also slowly diminishing in availability.
with this many americans potentially at risk, we also strongly advocate that home owners take the necessary steps to test their wells on a yearly basis.
”for interested customers, the berkey pf-2 filters are used inside the lower chamber of our home water filter system for removing arsenic from the water.
well, this didn’t mean  i had contaminated drinking water, but it motivated me to do some additional  research into my what i was drinking.
the city must have theirs tested for epa regulated contaminants every year, and larger cities have to run tests on their water daily.
household ‘grey water’, the water waste from sinks and washing is increasingly contaminated with household chemicals.
well, this didn’t mean i had contaminated drinking water, but it motivated me to do some additional research into my what i was drinking.
now, this more toxic soup of water runoff either saturates the surrounding land or gets routed through community sewer systems to water treatment plants where industrial filtration attempts to make it drinkable.
the addition of chlorine, or  treatment of water with ultra-violet light or ozone will kill or inactivate  this strain of e. coli.
tags: berkey water filter ecoli, contaminated drinking water, contamination of drinking water, ecoli drinking water posted in berkey water filter, contaminated drinking water | 1 comment » this week, the new york times reported on it’s disturbing findings of an investigation into the us municipal water systems that serve millions of americans.
program data collected from 1992 to 2003.
the three that  were shown to have the highest levels werearsenic, radon, and manganese.
one explanation for falling water table levels is offered by richard mcgrath, director of codes and standards, cement association of canada: “the increased use of hardscaping (impervious pavements) in our major urban areas allows the direct run-off of oil and other contaminants into the storm water system, preventing the recharging of groundwater levels and natural purification of the run-off water.”
the findings certainly underscore  the message we hear from the public health agencies, that everyone should test  their wells for a suite of trace elements.
tags: contaminated drinking water, drinking water, drinking water quality,  municipal water, quality water filter, water pollution posted in  contaminated drinking water | 3 comments » big berkey water filters is proudly powered by wordpress entries (rss)  andcomments (rss).
recovery within five to ten days usually follows without antibiotics.
in 2%-7% of those infected with e. coli o157:h7, the bacterium will also cause hemolytic uremic syndrome.
the geochemistry of groundwater changes in time due to the contact with it’s aquifer materials.
given the statements in the report and prior historical data, our feeling is that these harmful levels have most likely inclined, not declined since this data was collected.
it can often contain chemicals similar to acid rain yet also churn up undrinkable salt water from the ocean that causes corrosive damage.
we need to protect our water supplies waters that were once generously replenished and filtered by nature are now  being depleted and soiled by humans.
most of the hundreds of strains of e. coli are harmless and live in the  intestines of healthy humans and animals.
in 2%-7% of those infected with e. coli o157:h7, the bacterium will also  cause hemolytic uremic syndrome.
however, this pressure can fail  after a water main break results in a breach.
these sorts of “mishaps” not only threaten to contaminate our own drinking water, but also destroy existence of any animal, fish, and plant life in the affected and surrounding regions.
these are very efficient in removing virtually anything that may threaten your health such as pathogenic bacteria and chemicals.
wednesday, july 28th, 2010
the american water works associationestimates  that keeping up with drinking water infrastructure needs alone, repairing and  replacing old pipes and laying new ones for a growing population, will cost  $1.7 trillion dollars over the next 25 years.
for the love of clean water posts tagged ‘contaminated drinking water’
however, concerns  over water supply contamination seem to be based on variables other than some  would agree with.
this is not an  problem that can be ignored.
instead the hurricane moved across the gulf and slammed into mexico, leaving several dead and millions of dollars in damage.
make sure you are prepared prepare yourself and your family knowing all this, how can one be prepared for a possible hurricane  disaster?
it is the homeowners responsibility to keep tabs  on the water quality and for many reasons this is not commonly done.
as long as we continue to increase our use of chemicals in products and manufacturing, then it’s a safe bet to assume that the chemicals and contaminants found in our water will continue to increase in lockstep.
this is left to be seen, but they are officially on notice,… as are the other companies that are engaged in the practice of fracking as quickly as possible in this gas-land-grab.
the gas industry’s wobbly position was brought to the forefront of  discussion recently when in april a well blow-out during chesapeake’s
based on previous usgs research, this 19 percent of wells that were  discovered in this study compare with 7 percent of wells contaminated with  nitrates and 1 to 2 percent for pesticides and volatile organic compounds.
meanwhile, as this gets worked out, the risks to  your health ever increase without a home water filter.
these are just the basics, but every family  should begin with this foundation for preparedness.
the resulting environmental  waste water is re-routed to man-made runoff areas.
this statement directly corresponds to the radon dangers this study has found.
at the treatment plant the water is cleansed of the following: what i learned is that all of these are not atypical of what can be found in well water.
in pittsburgh for  example, officials are debating over how to fund needed updates to both their  water treatment facilities and maintenance of sewer lines which were installed  in 1912.
as i’ve written about in earlier articles, this is partly a byproduct of the public’s assumption that our drinking water is safe with no spotlight being placed on the regulators.
these minerals are not a health concern and are removed because they can discolor the water and create a slight taste of iron.”
study collaborator sandra mclellan is a senior scientist at the university of wisconsin - milwaukee’s great lakes w.a.t.e.r. institute (wisconsin aquatic technology and environmental research).
corrosion of distribution system pipes can reduce  water flow.”
we also recommend a home water  filter like the berkey to remove these harmful trace elements from the water.
here we show the study results in map form for arsenic: arsenic well contamination levels
no comments » e. coli contamination of drinking water tuesday, june 15th, 2010 e. coli, short for escherichia coli, is a type of fecal coliform bacteria  commonly found in the intestines of animals and humans.
one additional poignant usgs statement was that harmful elements “far outpace” other pollutants, many of which get far more public attention.
hurricane katrina the destructive power of a hurricane is in the wind, but also in the amount  of water it drops.
impact of water runoff one explanation for falling water table levels is offered by richard  mcgrath, director of codes and standards, cement association of canada:  “the increased use of hardscaping (impervious pavements) in our major  urban areas allows the direct run-off of oil and other contaminants into the  storm water system, preventing the recharging of groundwater levels and natural  purification of the run-off water.”
businesses have the ability to  purchase the rights to divert water from a lake, river, aquifer, or other  natural source further depleting reserves.
needed repairs are “going to challenge many communities, particularly those where they’ve been experiencing economic problems, and also in some places where the population has declined.
the first, category 2 hurricane alex, appeared less than a month after the season began.
some of this methane contamination, also referred to virally on the web as “tap water catching on fire”, could be seen in thehbo documentary gasland, and reaffirms many of the concerns brought about by the film.
during rainfalls, snow melts, or other types of precipitation, e. coli may  be washed into creeks, rivers, streams, lakes, or ground water.
“our message to drillers and to the public is clear.”
public water is by law constantly monitored for all bacterial contamination.
the study concluded that the incidence of waterborne illnesses occur more frequently even after comparatively mild rain events.
the american water works associationestimates that keeping up with drinking water infrastructure needs alone, repairing and replacing old pipes and laying new ones for a growing population, will cost $1.7 trillion dollars over the next 25 years.
population growth and crumbling sewers drive water bills up more
in this way, even moderate rainfall or water events can  contribute to drinking water contamination.
in the northeast and midwest, repair of existing systems will be the  primary cost increase driver.
tags: contaminated drinking water posted in contaminated drinking water  |no comments
the first, category 2 hurricane alex, appeared less  than a month after the season began.
that was good news for the united states,  but of course bad news for mexico.
tags: aging water infrastructure, contaminated drinking water, drinking  water contamination posted in contaminated drinking water |
with the ability to remove  e. coli bacteria to a log 7 degree, or 99.99999%, theberkey water filter will  render contaminated drinking water safe to drink.
storm water runoff that would normally seep through the porous ground must  often find its own path across toxic paved areas.
however, they also contaminate the wells  indirectly by surface water runoff flowing into the underground waterway  systems and ultimately finding their resting spots in  karsts and water aquifers that these wells feed off of.
of course, some parts of a disaster are unavoidable and they must be  endured until the crisis is over.
in doing so, i quickly learned that while we consider well and city water to be inherently safe to drink, this many times is far from the case.
more can learned about this phenomenon in our article  reviewing the importance ofkarst conservation.
breathing radon in indoor air can cause lung cancer.
manganese can have a “black to brown color; black staining; bitter metallic taste”
upon dep conclusion it was determined that the drinking water contamination had been caused by natural gas drilling and that “improper well casing and cementing in shallow zones” allowed gas from deep basins to seep into drinking water aquifers.
the problem is further complicated by limited taxpayer dollars set to the backdrop of towns and states facing major budget shortfalls.
local governments are looking to the commonwealth’s h2o funding  announcements to help cover a small portion, but it is estimated that more than  $25 billion will be required.
at the treatment plant the water is cleansed of the following: microbial contaminants, such as viruses and bacteria, which may come from  sewage treatment plants, septic systems, agricultural livestock operations, and  wildlife inorganic contaminants, such as salts and metals, which can be  naturally-occurring or result from urban storm water runoff, industrial or  domestic wastewater discharges, oil and gas production, mining or farming pesticides and herbicides, which may come from a variety of sources such  as agriculture, urban storm water runoff, and residential uses organic chemical contaminants, including synthetic and volatile organic  chemicals, which are by-products of industrial processes and petroleum  production, and can also come from gas stations, urban stormwater runoff, and  septic systems radioactive contaminants, which can be naturally occurring or be the  result of oil and gas production and mining activities.
as a result, the report recommends homeowners consider purchasing ahome water filter to purify their drinking water to protect themselves from these trace contaminants.
tags: contaminated drinking water, drinking water contamination, fracking contamination posted in contaminated drinking water |
tags: contaminated drinking water, home water filter posted in home water filter |
dr. gorelick  stated that the mystery “is what happens to water between the time it  leaves the treatment plant and gets to your tap.”
this can also be an issue after  rainfall saturates the surrounding soil, allowing contaminated water to leach  into the piping system.
children were studied because  they, along with the elderly and those in poor health, are the first ones to  become ill following an assault upon their immune systems.
currently, there seems to be a thought that contamination is  a result of inadequate well casing and cementing.
yet even though we’ve seen the  devastation of a hurricane like katrina, how many of us are fully prepared?
the problem is further complicated by limited taxpayer dollars set to the  backdrop of towns and states facing major budget shortfalls.
instead fifteen wells provide on  average 9.25 million gallons of water per day.
as was mentioned in ourlead in our drinking water post, schools are far from exempt from this poor water quality problem, as a more recent article by the nyt on dec 8th covers;senate environment and public works committee hearing on epa school water quality we need to continue to increase out awareness of how we affect the water supply through pollution and daily living habits, but we must also be aware that water we had originally assumed was healthy for consumption may require a run through a qualitywater filter prior to drinking.
this fracking soup of chemicals are known to be very toxic and environmentalists are concerned that the eye may be taken off the ball if the focus is simply on the casing/cementing.
for the first time a national study has been conducted testing for  potential trace contaminants in wells and aquifers.
manganese can have a “black to brown color;  black staining; bitter metallic taste” protection with a home water filter the primary question we have to ask ourselves is: how have  these concentrations gotten so high putting so many us citizens at risk, and  how does one protect their family?there are two primary causes for  these major well changes; natural chemical evolution / groundwater  age, and pollution.
in this new york times report, many of the water contaminants that show links to cancer were the very same contaminants that these towns were found to be in violation of.
for this reason, spending the time and resources finding ahome water filter should be a top priority.
arsenic has been linked to cancer of the bladder,  lungs, skin, kidney, nasal passages, liver, and prostate.”
do you research as many disaster survival companies have just the sort of supplies you would need.
needed investments would be  consistent with annual per household cost increases ranging from roughly $75 to  more than $100 per year by the mid-2030s . . .”
regional water infrastructure costs “the needs uncovered in ‘buried no longer’ are large, but  they are not insurmountable,” said awwa executive director david  lafrance.
what i learned is that all of these are not atypical of what can be found  in well water.
“our message to drillers and to  the public is clear.”
many of these chemicals seep and soak through the sediment
in pittsburgh for example, officials are debating over how to fund needed updates to both their water treatment facilities and maintenance of sewer lines which were installed in 1912.
any person who has sudden bloody diarrhea should get their stool tested for e. coli o157:h7 immediately.
the 2010  report card recently released by the american society of civil engineers gave  pennsylvania’s water and waste water management systems failing grades.
not to diminish the importance of the others, but  trace elements are also hugely important and arguably more so.”
however e. coli o157:h7 is an exception; as it produces a powerful toxin.
regardless, protection with a home water filter is essential for homeowners  whose wells have been compromised by these harmful trace minerals  or chemical pollutants.
chesapeake has stated that they are accepting the fine and are making a  concerted effort towards improving the raised issues.
that individual and their doctor may struggle to isolate the root cause and not recognize that it could be harmful trace elements from their own well water.
of course, some parts of a disaster are unavoidable and they must be endured until the crisis is over.
the state agency said  that throughout 2010 it investigated complaints of methane contamination in the  drinking water of several residential water wells in northeastern pa.
if you have determined that your drinking water is contaminated, then one  of the the safest procedures is to boil your water.
it is the homeowners responsibility to keep tabs on the water quality and for many reasons this is not commonly done.
make sure you are prepared knowing all this, how can one be prepared for a possible hurricane disaster?
these are just the basics, but every family should begin with this foundation for preparedness.
in this new york times report, many of the water contaminants that show  links to cancer were the very same contaminants that these towns were found to  be in violation of.
though our city of 64,000 is located on a major river, the city does not get it’s water from that river.
we must improve our drinking water quality regulations
if you live in a city, you probably take your water quality for granted.
these pipes are kept under pressure and are designed  to keep contaminants out of the treated water.
he states, “we often get more upset about these anthropogenic contaminants but we have to remember that these naturally occurring elements are often times more of a widespread problem.
we’ve stressed  the importance of conservation of karsts before as most folks do not  realize that once these groundwater supplies are contaminated naturally or by  human pollution, it is very difficult and expensive to reverse the condition.
businesses have the ability to purchase the rights to divert water from a lake, river, aquifer, or other natural source further depleting reserves.
the gas industry’s wobbly position was brought to the forefront of discussion recently when in april a well blow-out during chesapeake’s well completion operations in pennsylvania, saw several thousand gallons of drilling fluid escape into local waterways.
katrina, for example, dropped 15 inches of rain in some regions in less than a 24 hour period.