so the parents go home, and the child remains in a serious condition or dies.
this is a most ridiculous reason since bacteria is  every where!
children with cancer showed significant improvement on all blood count measures including white and red blood count, platelet count and hemoglobin level.
the book explains the damaging effects of dehydration in the fourth dimension of time.
vaccines: are they really safe and effective?
resources for children with special needs support system for parents and their special children what to do about your brain-injured child does your child suffers from seizures?
the article says that "that water is often contaminated and can cause 'infectiion' in the baby.
rubella), or opv (oral  polio) vaccine.
however i do not want to get into a discussion about containers.
we hope and pray that that is not so - that this  "advice" is at best a mistake and a misunderstanding.
shirley uses natural  remedies to treat her sick or injured animals shirley's award winning edible container garden on a rooftop additional photos and article of shirley's  edible rooftop garden make a difference by helping people and pets, working with shirley click here to email shirley or
also, i have concerns about the suggestion in the article to add honey to the water.
his is a certified k-8 classroom teacher, polarity  practitioner, yoga ed. instructor and reiki master.
in 1996 the world health organization warned that ritalin over-use has reached dangerous proportions.
at an annual conference of the american college for the advancement of medicine during april 2001, with several hundred physicians in attendance, when one of the speakers asked how many in attendance had concerns about the safety of current childhood vaccines, a large majority raised their hands.
at an annual conference of the american college for the advancement of medicine  during april 2001, with several hundred physicians in attendance, when one of  the speakers asked how many in attendance had concerns about the safety of  current childhood vaccines, a large majority raised their hands.
in our own  office we have seen many autistic children in recent years, and our own  experience has been very similar, many parents reporting that deterioration of  their children took place following vaccines.
the antibiotics amoxicillan and ampicillin accounted for 24 per cent of total adverse reactions, with vaccines coming in second at 19 per cent.
in india we actually do not use bottles for babies.
the infant who has a tummy full of water will drink less milk at his feedings, and his mother's breasts will decrease milk production in response.
ssf is committed to contributing to the spiritual, mental and physical  upliftment of society.
this is not surprising, since it has been known for years  that isoflavones in soy can depress thyroid function, causing autoimmune  thyroid disease and even cancer.
had i known about this information  20 years ago, i would have certainly given water to my son.
reiki may be administered  to ones self or others.
he says that honey is an unsafe food for  any infant and should not be given to children younger than 12 months old.
if there are toxins from the mother going into the baby - then the baby needs water to wash these out.
the risk appears to be greatest in girls who ingest soy formula for nine months or more.
rubella), or opv (oral polio) vaccine.
but i am disturbed by the article stating that babies need water from a bottle.
you need to see the situation in india and other third world countries  where advice that you and i have to give does not reach the common man.
please read the other points of viewfrom readers' emails juices cannot replace water - there is no replacement for water.
regarding water for breastfeeding infants: 1-if the water in breastmilk isn't sufficient, why do women from tropical climates make milk with a higher water content?
it is a frightening thought that vested interests are behind this move to make kidneys fail.
babies often cry  when they are thirstymore... are you aware of the long-term health damage caused by nutrasweet in your  kid's diet soft drink and food?
learn about the legal class action against aspartame learn more from the mailbag: other opinion from readers in response the above articlefrom the mailbag: other opinion from readers in response the above article name: arly helm email: arlyhelm@pacbell.net location: nevada city ca date: june 10, 2004 dear shirley:
when infants swallow the spores, however, the spores can germinate in their immature gastrointestinal tracts and begin producing botulinum toxin.
your article addressing the so-called "need" for water is based on a religious text.
in fact, there are at least 50 reasons why the body needs sufficient water on a regular, everyday basis.
the result: the baby gets less milk, and may not grow as well.
remarkable results were also found with normal infants.
they are sent home with the advice, "give your baby panadol".
i  am glad at least they are not advocating denying the child air or food, as some  unfortunatel belief systems do.
the founding principle  of hpmt is: feeling comfort, peace and ease eliminates dis-ease; quieting the  mind to a state of stillness heals illness.
serotonin (a neurotransmitter that regulates mood, sleep and  appetite) significantly increased with massage therapy.
add/adhd helping children, not drugging them.
by far the worst cases of soy damage are reported to us by women who have drunk soy milk while pregnant, and then fed their babies soy formula.
every few hours our body throws out poisons from the body in  the form of urine.
the person who is writing to you has shifted the emphasis from "water" to "bottle".
the  extra fluids may be made with unsafe water and given in feeding bottles which  are contaminated.
i havepublished their emails in this page to share their opininion with you.
(the sanjeevini handbook for healing is available for free at thesai sanjeevini foundation)
breasts can appear and testicles do not develop.
upto now we have talked of mothers who are feeding their babies exclusively with breast milk and sometimes fruits.
what happens when there is lack of water in the body?
i  would be interested to know how you came to support the view shared in that  article.
parents also report  experiencing these same feelings.
autism: understanding and  implementing a gluten and casein free diet vaccines cancer and leukemia: is  there a link?
the baby puts its own hands and fingers into the mouth and these  are loaded with bacteria picked up by the baby from the environment.
crying for food (milk) 2.
it ruins female sexual response and induces male sexual dysfunction.
this contains a lot of water and such children may require very little or no water - i find such children having very little of the hoarse cry.
pregnant women should not eat soy products in-utero  exposure to genistein increases the incidence of breast tumors.
i think most babies also know when they want to change the breast - it is not the mother but the baby which usually asks for a breast change.
only rishis and yogis can do without these.
in addition, if the water is given in a bottle, the baby's sucking  technique may become confused.
so, i exclusively breadfed my son for 3 years (he is brain-injured) and i  never gave him a drop of water.
some babies prefer a few drops at a time given from a silver spoon.(for breastfeeding mothers it is best to avoid using a baby bottle because of the possibility of nipple confusion resulting unwanted weaning.
in peru, babies who received water and teas in addition to breastmilk had twice as many days with diarrhoea in any given month as those receiving only breastmilk (3).
in baby boys, 12 months of soy feeding can lead to gross effects by  the age of 11 or 12.
stress hormones cortisol, epinephrine and norepinephrine
soy can cause severe allergic reactions soy, like its botanically-related  cousin the peanut, could be responsible for severe, potentially fatal, cases of  food allergy, particularly in children with asthma who are also very sensitive  to peanuts.
not everyone agrees with the following article.
you can read an account ofshirley's journey into health without drugs, surgery or radiation.
this baby food action site http://www.anatomy.usyd.edu.au/danny/bfag/ puts it this way, "the water mixed with the formula is often contaminated.
they keep repeating to me,  "i didn't know, i just didn't know, the doctor told me to drink it for my  bones and give him soy formula." soy formulas and the effects of isoflavones on the thyroid -  environmental scientist and long-time campaigneragainst soy-based infant  formulas, dr mike fitzpatrick, warns about the risk of thyroid disease in  infants fed soy formulas, high soy consumers and users of isoflavone  supplements.
serious thyroid malfunctioning is one of the most common complaints.
water is also needed to carry toxic waste away from the  cells.
even the rabbit who only nurses a couple times in 24  hours does not leave the nest to get water.
he really looks  forward to (his sessions).”
some of these techniques may include: reiki is a simple, yet powerful form of healing which means universal life energy.
this is a religious belief, as is the belief that breastmilk does not supply sufficient and adequate fluid for the newborn.
overcoming stress and depression the natural way vaccination - deception and tragedy flu pandemic and flu vaccine shocking discovery aids and hiv: lies, cover-up, deception, profits and genocide antibiotic resistance and side effects artifical sweeteners
learn about homeopathic medicine for childhood ailments such as bedwetting, chicken pox, measles, colds, flus, teething, constipation, sore throats, earaches, diarrhea, and much more.
in a clinical study, pediatrician, dr. david markowitz, m.d. reports an 84% reduction in antibiotic use when children usedtransfer factors.
how much water does a baby need?
the first clue is the statement, "air and water are absolutely  essential.
all texts that is intellectual property is © copyright 1996 - 2010.
emotional freedom technique  combines techniques used in hypnotherapy and acupressure.
now we know that this is not at all possible and we also know that mother's  milk is a big source of such chemicals and poisons getting to the baby.
read about the personal stories of vaccine damage and its tiny victims.
after only 15 minutes he almost fell asleep!
this leads to diarhhoea, malnutrition and often death."
“she is doing better in school and  feels better about herself.”
james bowen, m.d. told the fda years ago "every known metabolite of aspartame is of marked or questionable toxicity and patently unsafe for human use."
need water from a bottle.
subject:  about the article saying that newborns need  water...
soy can cause severe allergic reactions soy, like its botanically-related cousin the peanut, could be responsible for severe, potentially fatal, cases of food allergy, particularly in children with asthma who are also very sensitive to peanuts.
f.  batmanghelidj, m.d.   learn about the miracles of water your body's many cries for water: you are not sick, you are thirsty!
shirley's wellness cafe's recommended natural health products.
the autism  research institute of san diego is now widely known as an active support group  for families with autistic children and is one of the more active organizations  in this field.
among children, antibiotics andvaccines cause more adverse reactions than any other prescribed medicines, according to a canadian study presented at the annual meeting of the american academy of allergy and asthma in 1998.
"even when we have more than enough, we are afraid to share."
i hope you have carefully considered various angles before posting that article on your web page.
they also developed better organized sleep patterns and showed more appropriate behavior after massage therapy.
"the drugging of children has gotten so out of hand that america is waking up to this.
that was done for the jackson girls in the neonatal intensive care unit at the medical center of central massachusetts in worcester.
most are equally vague  about the reasons for this "advice".
these  dead cells have to be flushed out by the body every day.
if the  dehydration persists and is not corrected naturally with water, it becomes  symptom-producing and, in time, develops into a disease condition.
children with ptsd showed a significant  reduction in depression; from 28 to 16 on the cesd depression scale.
any other food or drink introduced during that  time will replace breast milk, therefore the marketing of cereals, teas, juices  or water for children under six months can be interpreted intending to replace  breast milk and undermine breastfeeding.
they do not understand the problems associated with dehydration.
by promoting bottle-given water for babies, you are also promoting  potential nipple confusion.
the argument that animals do not bottle feed their young with water does not hold water because within a few days the animal baby in most cases can walk to the water - which the human baby cannot do.
-- autism: understanding and implementing a gluten and casein free diet vaccines cancer and leukemia: is there a link?
it is soothing and healing during therapy and can played between sessions which elicit the same effect.
there is an increasing interest in finding safe and effective methods for healing many of the disabling psychological and physical conditions effecting children today.
---breast-feeding best bet for babies   from the fda  website danger of infant soy formula.
sincerely yours, arly helm, ms, ibclc name: winnie mading, bsn, ibclcname: winnie mading, bsn, ibclc
i am glad at least they are not advocating denying the child air or food, as some unfortunatel belief systems do.
without sufficient water to constantly wet all parts, your body's drought-management system kicks into action.
cortisol and state anxiety levels significantly  dropped.
then comes the second and third injections, and tragedy strikes: the child may cry intensely and inconsolably, may stop feeding properly, vomit, have difficulty swallowing, become irritable, stop sleeping, and may develop convulsions with accelerating progressive deterioration of its condition and mainly its brain function.
the baby puts its own hands and fingers into the mouth and these  are loaded with bacteria picked up by the baby from the environment."
depressed children showed short-term and long-term gains from massage therapy.
"teresa pitman "in india and in some other countries, mothers of new born babies are  being given the dangerous advice that the baby must not be given any water for  the first 6 months.
basic healing principles aids/hiv/azt: truth behind the propaganda
but i have yet to come across such a baby.
the truth is that 99.9999% of babies arefed formula and/or cows milk in addition to breast milk.
it is administered with a flat hand or fist and is applied with medium pressure in a rhythmical way.
she discovered that neonates receiving regular  massage gained47% more weight than those receiving no massage.
her heart rate was way up, and she got hiccups, a dangerous sign that her body was under stress.
children with ptsd showed a significant reduction in depression; from 28 to 16 on the cesd depression scale.
urine therapy: medically proven natural cure thyroid disorder and the fluoride connection toxic environment - toxic cosmetics detoxification for optimum health: chemicals and toxins are the primary cause of disease and obesity the role of glutathione in health and
drinking soymilk during pregnancy can cause a failure to produce breast milk, which can lead to feeding the baby soy formula.
human knowledge - even that of doctors - cannot replace what god made.
we hope and pray that that is not so - that this "advice" is at best a mistake and a misunderstanding.
in this respect, someone with a background in  childcare, education, special education and/or crisis intervention is ideal.
massaged infants showed less  stress, were more alert, were easier to soothe and had better sleep patterns.
his is a certified k-8 classroom teacher, polarity practitioner, yoga ed
besides, mother's milk also contains toxins passed on by the mother and  only water can wash these out of the baby's body.
new soft drinks, sports drinks and powdered mixes that are targeted to children are frequently introduced.
kneading relaxes  muscles and takes pressure off nerves.
emotions such as fear, anxiety and anger are reflected throughout the body as tight muscles and are sometimes stored there as knots.
pressing and rubbing areas  on the feet and hands elicits a healing response which reflexes to specific  areas of the body.
the story of shirley's baby born blind and brain-injured
when infants swallow the spores, however, the spores can  germinate in their immature gastrointestinal tracts and begin producing  botulinum toxin.
second, a woman's breasts  produce the perfect food and drink for her baby.
the animal baby almost from day one crawls to the mother's breast - the human baby has to be carried and physically put to the breast.
when  the baby needs water it cries for it in a particular way - from the throat -  you hear a sort of double sound indicating a cracking of the voice due to  dryness.
depressed children showed short-term and long-term gains from massage  therapy.
if you have, well, i still disagree.
they end up  following all the advice that is convenient to them - they end up giving the  formula and cows milk for their convenience and abstaining from the wter also  since it is convenient not to have to worry about one more thing.
after only 15 minutes he almost fell asleep!”
massaged infants showed less stress, were more alert, were easier to soothe and had better sleep patterns.
at the end of the session, children often report feeling a sense of peace  and ease.
during a session the reiki  practitioner simply sends healing energy by putting his/her hands on or  slightly above the client’s body.
among  children, antibiotics andvaccines cause more adverse reactions than any other  prescribed medicines, according to a canadian study presented at the annual  meeting of the american academy of allergy and asthma in 1998.
donald k. brown, m.d.
i would be interested to know how you came to support the view shared in that article.
date: sat, 20 nov 1999 02:27:58 -0800 from:  "jeri" <approbat@aa.net hi!
the  chiidren you will meet here suffered a severe reaction to a routine dpt  (diphtheria.
clients can be taught many of  these techniques to use between sessions to bring back feelings of peace when  needed.
"dr f. klenner, m.d. why are a growing number of parents and health care professionals around the world questioning vaccination?
they will not listen to anyone that breast milk is better than  tinned milk - because the doctor saheb has told them so.
in india and in some other countries, mothers of new born babies are being  given the dangerous advice that the baby must not be given any water for the  first 6 months.
ssf is committed to contributing to the spiritual, mental and physical upliftment of society.
waterborne diseases fed  straight to vulnerable babies causes what is now a common condition in many  parts of the world - diarrhoea, vomiting, respiratory infections, malnutrition,  dehydration and commonly death - known as bottle-baby disease."
dr. field remarked, adolescents were less depressed and less anxious than they had been and their stress hormones (cortisol and norepinephrine) had decreased.
dr. david ayoub, m.d. lectures on vaccines, mercury, autism and other disease vaccines: deception and tragedy vaccines and sudden infant death syndrome (sids) shaken baby syndrome or vaccine-induced encephalitis?
i hope this clarifies to some extent your dilemma in understanding why we recommend water.
according to pediatrics magazine, many children don't drink enough water because they were raised on sugared beverages and juices.
he says, "the concern is with infant botulism.
as toronto lactation  consultant anne kirkham explains, "giving water to young babies can make  some undesirable things happen and can suppress other good things."
instead use a regular household or  medicine spoon.
(both  groups were fed the same amount of formula.)
natural health for children alternative to steroids, antibiotics, and ear tubes -homeopathy for children and infants: wonders of all wonders - health hazard and adverse effects ofvaccines - do you know what happens duringcircumcision?- children with special needs - calming hyper kids with herbs - dispelling the fear of spoiling yourbaby - attachment parenting andmuch more..enter holistic health for children or click on the arrow in the box below, select a topic, and it will take you there optimum nutrition and natural health for animals complementary and alternative therapies in veterinary medicine peter r. breggin, m.d - "the drugging of children has gotten so out of hand that america is waking up to this.
parent comments include… “i have never seen him so  calm.
a myth: breast-fed infants need water supplement http://members.aol.com/tireswing/oldmyths.html#art3
when the baby needs water it cries for it in a particular way - from the throat - you hear a sort of double sound indicating a cracking of the voice due to dryness.
however, nowadays, with an alarmingly increasing frequency, the parents (or at least one of them, usually the father) may be accused of shaking the baby to death" viera scheibner, phd. alan yurko was charged with aggravated child abuse and first-degree murder of his infant son, alan; he is now serving a life sentence without possibility of parole at washington correctional institution in chipley, florida.
- calming hyper kids with herbs - food additives and hyperactivity in children.
use of this site signifies your agreement to the disclaimer site map home: shirleyswellnesscafe.com (aka: mywellnesshouse.com) is a free  educational site site dedicated to promote holistic health for you, your  family, and your animals.
first of all, babies need nothing from a bottle, or god would've equipped us with bottles and breasts.
for the first time he has been able to face his nightmares he really looks forward to (his sessions).
i can't help, and i don't think anyone can.
it works with the  body’s bioenergy systems.
the risk  appears to be greatest in girls who ingest soy formula for nine months or  more.
no longer blind: the story of shirley's baby born blind and brain-injured holistic animal health : do you really know
parents following yogi teachings need to make their own compromises between their child's health and their religious beliefs.
more at shirley's wellness cafe: holistic animal health
what's in your pet's food?
others experience worries about their safety or have intense fear of the dark, insects, animals or other creatures.
holistic pediatric massage therapy
infant massage is taught as an art that comes from the heart and is simply administered with hands.
misdiagnosed shaken baby syndrome: a criminal consequence of vaccine
overcoming cortical blindness and brain-injury homeopathy for children and babies it is time that parents and physicians seek safe, natural and effective alternatives to conventional, potentially harmful drugs.
i can't help but wonder if the infants cited who seemed to be short on  water were not being nursed physiologically-in other words were being made to  adhere to an arbitrary schedule rather than according to baby's needs.
shots in the dark "vaccines do predispose to cancer and leukaemia.
some babies  prefer a few drops at a time given from a silver spoon.(for breastfeeding  mothers it is best to avoid using a baby bottle because of the possibility of  nipple confusion resulting unwanted weaning.
creative visualization  creates healthy thoughts and in turn, healthy emotions.
ssf is committed to  contributing to the spiritual, mental and physical upliftment of society.
learn why some experts urge that breasted or bottle fed infants drink water in in our chemically polluted environment often, when there are controversial subjects, wherein so called experts disagree, i will give information about opposing points of view.
so comparisons are not reasonable.
in another study, computation time and accuracy were positively effected by  therapeutic massage.
the page called "mcspotlight on the baby milk industry" claims that "every 30 seconds, a baby dies from unsafe bottle feeding. . . .
so, i exclusively breadfed my son for 3 years (he is brain-injured) and i never gave him a drop of water.
aromatherapy uses essential oils to improve clients psychological and physical well-being.
these mandates last for 40 or so years and they're  impossible to repeal.
there is an increasing amount of research being conducted into the possible  link between autism and vaccination.
there cannot be absolutes in this - we cannot say "never" give water and we cannot say "so much water must be given".
beyond this, aspartame  disrupts fetal development by aborting it or inducing defects.
james bowen, m.d. told the fda years ago "every known  metabolite of aspartame is of marked or questionable toxicity and patently  unsafe for human use."
occasionally i  receive emails from breastfeeding mothers or members of lll who strongly  disagree with giving water to infants.
as the child heals, the family heals.
yoga helps align the body, focus the mind and renew the spirit.
this book explains a new discovery that lack of water in the body--chronic dehydration--is the root cause of many painful degenerative diseases, asthma, allergies, hypertension, excss body weight, andsome emotional problems including depression.
now we know that this is not at all possible and we also know that mother's milk is a big source of such chemicals and poisons getting to the baby.
mr. yurko insists that he did not kill his son; rather, he now claims that his son died from a combination of medical mistreatment and an adverse reaction to immunizations.
first of all, babies need nothing from a bottle, or  god would've equipped us with bottles and breasts.
pertussis, tetanus), mmr (measles, mumps.
buttram a criminal consequence of vaccine injury:
they were observed as more cooperative, less depressed and less  anxious.
also see the dialogue on diaharroea website at  http://www.rehydrate.org/dd/html/dd49.htm#page2.
this deterioration may be fast, or may slowly inch in until the parents notice that something is very wrong with their child and then rush it to the doctor or hospital.
this technique may feel safer for shy clients.
medical professionals have been educated to treat pain and disease with medications.
ever since mass vaccination of infants began, reports of serious brain,  cardiovascular, metabolic and other injuries started filling pages of medical  journals."
these drinks are not a healthy source of hydration and can cause damage to  proper development.
this is a very real problem for some babies.
i hope you have carefully considered various angles before posting that  article on your web page.
for some readers the very idea of giving water to their nursing babies may be choking.
percussion is stimulating at first; however, over time it  can have a soothing effect.
significantly  decreased.
human babies don't walk to the waterhole soon after birth!
children who wet their beds should not be punished.
reflexology is often a good starting point for many.
viera scheibner, phd viera scheibner, phd: "a great number of babies now die within days or within two to four weeks of birth afterhepatitis b vaccination, as documented by the records of the vaers [vaccine adverse event reporting system] in the usa.)
medical professionals have been educated to treat pain and disease with  medications.
the most important lesson is how to connect, be aware and present through all states (crying, quiet alert, active alert, drowsy and sleeping) and stages of growth.
infant circumcision: the hidden trauma benefits of routine infant circumcision have been thoroughly disproven.
in fact, there are at least 50 reasons why the body needs sufficient  water on a regular, everyday basis.
when histamine and its subordinate "drought managers" come across pain-sensing nerves, they cause pain.
i'll put my 35+ years of experience working with nursing mothers over this article any day.
my husband on the other hand, born to african-american/native american parents in arkansas (homebirth) was breastfed and he remembers that it was common practice togive water with a spoon or a cup to breastfed infants..
there is  good scientific reasoning behind this.
strengthening cell-mediated immunity with transfer factor
for more information call 207 522-7257, e-mail bcote@anewawakening.org or visit www.anewawakening.org.
each baby will take only how much he or she  needs.
"many children don't drink enough water because they were  raised on sugared beverages and juices."
sometimes sleep problems become chronic and a pattern of insomnia sets in.
library how to raise a healthy child in spite of your doctor - dr. robert mendelsohn how to teach your baby to read stop your child's ear infections naturally without antibiotics or tubes and more... .
people are taking interest in holistic pediatric massage therapy and it is becoming a popular choice for many parents and caregivers.
" here's an interesting quote from an article about the "who code"  http://www.lalecheleague.org/llleaderweb/lv/lvaprmay99p26.html on the la leche  league website : "lll leaders know that six months of exclusive  breastfeeding is recommended.
water:how important is it for infants?
in this way i  feel that you can then make your own decision and choices.
please read theother points of view from readers' emails breast milk has many benefits for babies that are superior to formula.
testimonials parents, caregivers, therapists and doctors have seen the benefits of holistic pediatric massage therapy.
unfortunately, this is not surprising.
second, a woman's breasts produce the perfect food and drink for her baby.
strain, cool and give to the baby in a baby bottle.
the essence of these  healing oils easily penetrates the olfactory membranes in the nose sending  nerve impulses to the brain which ultimately affects the amygdala, the memory  center for fear and trauma.
you should preface your article  with this information for your readers, so they will know this is a religious  belief, rather than a scientifically based article.
call  206-984-3009  or  323-389-0560 dhtml menu navigation by vista-buttons.com v5.7 contact  shirley or call 206-984-3009  or 323-389-0560most popular life-giving  products holistic pediatric massage therapy
your child will not thank you, and you may never have grandchildren.
adults who swallow botulinum spores are almost  never affected.
another brazilian study showed that each additional  daily 'feed' with teas or water was associated with a 40 per cent increase in  diarrhoea mortality.
also, the ones receiving massage were discharged from the hospital an average of six days earlier.
vaccines and sudden infant death syndrome (sids) vaccine and diabetes connection anthrax vaccine facts and gulf war syndrome government enforced vaccinations: vaccination tracking registry how to legally avoid unwanted immunizations of all kinds avian, swine flu-virus, tamiflu drug: shocking discovery nosodes: alternative to conventional vaccines
the practitioner uses light pressure on meridian points to open and clear  energy pathways, gently massages shoulders and feet, and clears chakras and  auras through intention using crystals.
more about  the danger of soy "at the present time there are growing public and  professional concerns about the safety of currently mandated childhood vaccine  programs, as reflected in by a series of annual congressional hearings in  washington dc that have taken place since 1999, sponsored by the u.s. house  government reform committee under the chairmanship of congressman dan burton.
watch this short movie online natural herbal solutions just for infants, children and teens: help your child stay healthy naturally (add, adhd, depression, bed wetting, colic, and more)
however we understand that two  reasons are most often given both of which, as we explain below, do not make  any sense: that mother's milk is complete - no water is therefore needed.
i'll put my 35+ years of experience working with nursing mothers over this  article any day.
let us tune in to mother nature - all our answers and doubts will be cleared from that - the resident omnipresent, omniscient, omnipotent supreme consciousness within us.
the controversy stems from the  thousands of deaths and permanent disabilities attributed to vaccination  annually, as well as the many published medical studies, government statistics,  congressional testimonies, and other credible sources that directly contradict  commonly held assumptions about vaccine safety and effectiveness.
its founding director, bernard rimland, ph.d., has provided the  statistics that, in their experience, from 50 to 60% of parents with autistic  children believe that their children were damaged by vaccines.
scores on the conner’s scale (a frequently used assessment for  diagnosis) decreased from 28.0 to 11.3.
instead use a regular household or medicine spoon.
that kill! salt deficiency:the cause of many serious disease radiant, healthy skin: the natural way words of wisdom follow your dreams!
parent comments include i have never seen him so calm.
your rights- in health care when it comes  tomandatory vaccination.
this is true of all living creatures including little babies.
after only one 15 minute massage, students accuracy increased from an average of 69% to 89% and time of completion decreased from 250 seconds to 234 seconds.
they were observed as more cooperative, less depressed and less anxious.
our sanjeevini book is a handbook for healers - healers deal with these  people and if they tell the mother to give water atleast some of the damage  will be undone.
the circumcision decision: what i wish i had known...
if they remain in the  body they produce toxins i.e. poisons.
pressing and rubbing areas on the feet and hands elicits a healing response which reflexes to specific areas of the body.
symptoms  of add and adhd (a frequently diagnosed disorder in school-age children)
"there is no other product in a nutritional substance, nor a drug, that has this kind of power and ability to affect our immune system.
f. batmanghelidj, m.d. learn about the miracles of water
our sanjeevini book is a handbook for healers - healers deal with these people and if they tell the mother to give water atleast some of the damage will be undone.
- prozac free kids autism autism/ inflammatory bowel disease, and mmr vaccine - orthomolicular/nutritional therapy - child vaccine linked to autism - understanding and implementing a gluten and casein free diet - how to reach your autistic child and more no azt for my baby, please.
serious thyroid malfunctioning is one of the most common  complaints.
nowhere in their training as doctors are they taught what happens if one does  not drink an adequate amount of water every day. "
adults who swallow botulinum spores are almost never affected.
please read miracles of water medical report: a new medical  discovery .
protecting your bones moringa "the miracle tree" - disease prevention and treatment
they tell me heartbreaking stories about baby girls who show signs of early maturation, such as underarm odour, breast development, body hair and even menstruation as early as two, three and four years of age!
same for women in climates that change with the seasons  who have more water in their milk during the hotter seasons?
if there is insufficient water, the toxins become concentrated and can result in severe "clogging" of the kidneys, resulting in dangerous kidney disorders and even kidney failure.
even the rabbit who only nurses a couple times in 24 hours does not leave the nest to get water.
in my experience, the bottom line is the way the baby cries.
new  soft drinks, sports drinks and powdered mixes that are targeted to children are  frequently introduced.
misdiagnosed shaken baby  syndrome by allan phillips "many infants who suffer the so-called 'shaken baby syndrome'  may be victims of undiagnosed vaccine damage
my husband on the other hand, born to  african-american/native american parents in arkansas (homebirth) was breastfed
if your baby is a new-born, boil the water with a few grains of sauf (fennel seeds) and one or two whole pepper balls.
massage therapy for infants dr. tiffany field at the touch research institute, university of miami,  department of medicine pioneered research in massage therapy for infants,  children and adolescents.
dr. field remarked,  “…adolescents were less depressed and less anxious than they had been  and their stress hormones (cortisol and norepinephrine) had decreased.
our body is made  up of 80% water.
also see the dialogue on diaharroea website at http://www.rehydrate.org/dd/html/dd49.htm#page2.
i'm from belgium, i was bottle-fed and never got a drop of water while on fomulas.
the bitter truth about nutrasweet canola oil: how toxic is it?
preventing and healing animal cancer without drugs or surgery animal emotional and behavioral challenges holistic health for horses feline holistic health natural diet for pet birds vaccinosis: chronic dis-ease caused by vaccines nosodes: alternative to conventional vaccines list of holisitic veterinarians managing flea bites and hotspots naturally improving your animal's health with kelp books and video: holistic animal health training shasta for personal protection animal telepathy - pets with disabilities natural immune booster
(low levels of serotonin are associated with many disorders including depression, anxiety, bipolar disorder and sudden infant death syndrome.
however, in spite of all this mother's milk is absolutely the ideal food.
your child will not thank you, and you may never have  grandchildren.
he is trained in touch and massage for  children with special needs, neonatal massage, infant massage and therapeutic  crisis intervention.
the article says that "that water is often contaminated and can cause  'infectiion' in the baby.
a 50-pound, active child, for example, needs about a quart of water each day to stay hydrated.
if you wish your baby's well-being -please give him or her water.
he does not come away hungry if he's gotten  the milk that comes down after several minutes of feeding.
the first clue is the statement, "air and water are absolutely essential.
pregnant women should not eat soy products in-utero exposure to genistein increases the incidence of breast tumors.
remember : there are millions of cells that die every  day in the body and millions of new cells are born to replace the dead ones  each day.
shots in the dark "vaccines do predispose to cancer and leukaemia."
i doubt that there has been any scientific evidence of a different cry for  water, especially in the early weeks and months.
this is a deadly combination.
the doctors actually end up selling nestles milk powder (other brands too) to the mother - the money involved in this scandal is too large for words.
interestingly, they are invariably asked when the baby was immunised.
2-if it is  necessary to have water that is not part of another "food", does that  mean that adults shouldn't drink water with meals or that water drunk with  other foods doesn't "count"? 3-as far as comparing with animals  whose young drink water soon (as was stated in one response from the original  writer)-remember that different mammals make different composition milks based  on the needs of that species.
then comes the second and third  injections, and tragedy strikes: the child may cry intensely and inconsolably,  may stop feeding properly, vomit, have difficulty swallowing, become irritable,  stop sleeping, and may develop convulsions with accelerating progressive  deterioration of its condition and mainly its brain function.
it can also  be a useful method of assessment.
if your baby is over 3 weeks old and you have so far not given any water, then try the above method - if the baby rejects it (since it is an unfamiliar texture and taste), then add a touch of honey.
to live, 3 things are essential : air water food air and water are absolutely essential.
we use pure silver bowls with silver spoons and we give the water a few drops at a time and very soon the baby wants the silver glass which is the next step.
" okay, i've got to go breastfeed my baby now!!
the histamine-directed chemical messenger systems are activated to arrange a new, lower quota of water for the drought-stricken areas.
your body's many cries for water: you are not sick, you are thirsty!
along with many other groups throughout the world, the autism research unit is committed to examining the nature of this association through scientific research.
home-base income opportunity share with others nature's gifts that assists us on our journey to optimal health and wellness.
these nutrients improve mental function, and memory.
human knowledge - even that of doctors - cannot replace what  god made.
same for women in climates that change with the seasons who have more water in their milk during the hotter seasons?
it quenches the baby's thirst.
also, the ones receiving massage  were discharged from the hospital an average of six days earlier.
breasts can appear and testicles do not  develop.
"giving extra liquids is not only unnecessary, but may also be harmful because: the baby may spend less time breastfeeding, which means that the mother's breasts are less stimulated to produce breastmilk.
"more julian whitaker m.d - "class action lawsuits have been filed in texas, california and new jersey charging swiss pharmaceutical giant novartis, maker ofritalin, with conspiracy to create the psychiatric disorder known as adhd in order to fuel the market for their product.
i'm from belgium, i was bottle-fed and never  got a drop of water while on fomulas.
in addition, if the water is given in a bottle, the baby's sucking technique may become confused.
each child is different and we as mothers have to "listen" well  to the baby's needs.
there may be ideallyc  situations but how many mothers are able to follow it - water is something that  a mother wants to give instinctively - its doctors orders that say no water.
our mothers gave us water - that's why  we are alive today.
please  get informed!
re: water for new born babies date: sun, 26 jul 1998  00:09:32 -0700 from: sai sanjeevini foundation   cc:  manjulak@bom3.vsnl.net.in dear shirley we have heard this argument from some quarters  before (about giving water to babies) and it would be justified perhaps if all  mothers everywhere were eating only natural, organic, uncooked food and not  ingesting any pesticides, ddt, chemical fertilizers from any source whatsoever.
sai sanjeevini foundation: - address : 108/39
of course, breastmilk supplies all the fluid a newborn needs, and adding water only throws the system out of balance.
when i read "water- a must for new born babies", i thought that this was important information to share with others and decided to publish it on my site.
the foundation's health and healing activities are centred around santhana sai sanjeevini a spiritual healing system to awaken the body's own healing power.
even infants are at risk.
they will not listen to anyone that breast milk is better than tinned milk - because the doctor saheb has told them so.
she began gasping for breath, and her face and stick-thin arms and legs turned bluish-gray.
it is quite normal for a child under the age of five to wet the bed occasionally and boys often take longer than girls to become dry at night.
this is why  people who take antacids to silence their bodies’ thirst pain become more  vulnerable and eventually develop other serious complications of dehydration.
search shirleyswellnesscafe.comsearch shirleyswellnesscafe.com massage therapy for infants dr. tiffany field at the touch research institute, university of miami, department of medicine pioneered research in massage therapy for infants, children and adolescents.
they are only a few of the thousands of children who have died or been left with medication resistant seizure disorders, mental retardation, physical handicaps, learning disabilities or other chronic illnesses after a reaction to a routine vaccination.
by far the worst calls are from women whose children have been fed soy formula.
the first thing to look for in a holistic pediatric massage therapist is  completion of a reputable program and license to practice in the state where  service is provided.
in this way, he claims you can prevent, treat, and cure a variety of conditions of ill health, at no cost, with what he calls nature's miracle medicine: water.
use of this site signifies your agreement to the disclaimer site map home: shirleyswellnesscafe.com (aka: mywellnesshouse.com) is a free educational site site dedicated to promote holistic health for you, your family, and your animals.
please use your own common sense and your instinct to decide what is good for your baby.
"sai sanjeevini foundation water - a must for new born babies produced by the sai sanjeevini foundation not everyone agrees with the following article.
the author explains how much water one needs to drink a day to  stay healthy, and why tea, coffee, and sodas are not good substitutes for  water.
so the parents go home, and the child remains in a  serious condition or dies.
the parent/guardian is present at all times  and serves a vital role.
however, nowadays, with an alarmingly increasing  frequency, the parents (or at least one of them, usually the father) may be  accused of shaking the baby to death" viera scheibner, phd. alan yurko was charged with aggravated child abuse and first-degree murder  of his infant son, alan; he is now serving a life sentence without possibility  of parole at washington correctional institution in chipley, florida.
:)  jeri danger of infant soy formula premature, early puberty related to soy products elaine  hollingsworth, director of the hippocrates health center of australia and  author of take control of your health and escape the sickness industry, writes  about the terrible effects ofsoy products on children: "i am not  exaggerating when i say that hundreds of people have rung me during the past  year to tell me about dreadful health problems that started after taking up the  soy habit.
it was developed by dr. randolph stone, a chiropractor who combined the wisdom of acupressure, chiropractic, ayurvedic and chinese systems of healing.
from: sai sanjeevini foundation  cc: manjulak@bom3.vsnl.net.in dear shirley we have heard this argument from some quarters before (about giving water to babies) and it would be justified perhaps if all mothers everywhere were eating only natural, organic, uncooked food and not ingesting any pesticides, ddt, chemical fertilizers from any source whatsoever.
peter r. breggin m.d learn about natural solutions herbal anti-depressant for children without the side effects of prescription anti-depressants natural colic remedy - babies between the ages of 0 - 6 months often develop colic.
of course, these horrible problems do not occur with every soy-fed baby, but is it worth taking such a chance?
it is a frightening thought that vested interests are behind this move to  make kidneys fail.
this has occurred even when the honey was only used to sweeten a pacifier (european journal of epidemiology, nov 1993).
drinking soymilk during pregnancy can cause a failure to produce  breast milk, which can lead to feeding the baby soy formula.
parents, guardians and therapist are in control; their role is to guide and assure that the child feels safe and comfortable at all times.
compression resets spindle fibers and effects pressure receptors which has a positive neurological effect.
using brief, rapid, rhythmic strokes increases circulation and tones the muscles.
signs of colic include persistent fretfulness and crying (especially after feeds), and baby may become red in the face and pull up his legs to relieve the pain in his stomach.
stop your child's ear infections naturally without antibiotics or tubes alternative approaches to childhood allergies think twice before giving steroids (cortisone, prednisone) to your children alternatives to antibiotics helping children, not drugging them .
nature did not intend infants to be fed hormones, and  life-threatening consequences occur when they are.
viera scheibner, phd viera scheibner, phd: "a great number of babies now die within days or  within two to four weeks of birth afterhepatitis b vaccination, as documented  by the records of the vaers [vaccine adverse event reporting system] in the  usa.)
after that comes the  thicker "hindmilk" which provides the baby with the fat he needs.
had i known about this information 20 years ago, i would have certainly given water to my son.
(the sanjeevini handbook for healing is available for free at thesai  sanjeevini foundation)
and he remembers that it was common practice togive water with a spoon or a cup  to breastfed infants..
practice therapeutic massage for infants, children and adolescents differs from adult therapy in many ways: infant massage is usually taught to parents/guardians and is easy to learn.
and if a live  child is born aspartame may have heinously damaged the dna of the baby cursing  future generation."
cortisol, epinephrine,  norepinephrine and serotonin are often targeted in drug therapy.)
clients can be taught many of these techniques to use between sessions to bring back feelings of peace when needed.
by far  the worst calls are from women whose children have been fed soy formula.
with certified organic food rapidly becoming the nutrition of choice by the health conscious amongst us, why would you accept any less for your skin?
some of these techniques may include: reiki is a simple, yet powerful  form of healing which means universal life energy.
each child is different and we as mothers have to "listen" well to the baby's needs.
yoga helps align the body, focus the mind and renew the  spirit.
perhaps the greatest benefit of hpmt is that it presents a unique opportunity for children, parents and guardians to feel empowered and confident while learning about safe and nurturing touch.
"bart classen, a maryland physician, published data showing that diabetesrates rose significantly in new zealand following a massive hepatitis b vaccine campaign in young children, and that diabetes rates also went up sharply in finland after three new childhood vaccines were introduced.
a 1997 study at the center for disease control and prevention in atlanta found that about 25 percent of new mothers gave their babies water at least three times per week in the first month of life.
"giving extra liquids is not  only unnecessary, but may also be harmful because: the baby may spend less time  breastfeeding, which means that the mother's breasts are less stimulated to  produce breastmilk.
the qualifying opinion that matters most, though, is your childs.
children  should always feel empowered telling them that they are in charge.
nmt – neuromuscular technique employs light, sustained pressure  with thumb or finger which reduces built-up knots and relieves the symptoms of  stress.
how to give water to a baby?
h. j. roberts, m.d.: "i have observed severe intellectual deterioration associated with the use of aspartame products (nutrasweet/equal/spoonful/canderal/benevia, etc.)
this paper explores  civil management of vaccine injury for victims seeking compensation through the  national vaccine injury compensation program legal issues raised by the growing international movement away from mass  mandatory immunization would you allow big brother to enforce vaccinations on your kids?
- air - water - food our mothers gave us water - that's why we are alive today.
these dead cells have to be flushed out by the body every day.
the baby will only drink as much as it needs - no more.
reiki may be administered to ones self or others.
also, they were found to  be significantly less tactile defensive and less depressed.
creative visualization  along with breathing and centering exercises is fundamental for teaching a  child how to take “time-in.”
until recently, the vaccine death would have just been labelled  "sudden infant death", particularly if the symptoms and pathological  findings were minimal.
feel free to ask any more questions.
at the bottom of this page, you will  also find a very interesting articlemiracles of water medical report: a new  medical discoveryby f. batmanghelidj, m.d which i urge you to read. -
the author explains how much water one needs to drink a day to stay healthy, and why tea, coffee, and sodas are not good substitutes for water.
(low levels of  serotonin are associated with many disorders including depression, anxiety,  bipolar disorder and sudden infant death syndrome.
when asked, most doctors are very vague as to the source of this  "advice" being given to mothers of newborns.
the only way these dead cells or toxins can be flushed out of the body is if the baby drinks adequate water.
teddy stoddard, an emotionally disadvantaged child, blossomed under the influence of his teacher and went on to become a successful doctor.
this is a national catastrophe.
so, the baby stops progressing, starts deteriorating, and usually develops signs of respiratory tract infection.
the risk of contracting serious diseases from bottle feeding is therefore high, but it is further compounded by the fact that, in the third world, many people don't have access to a clean water supply with which to make up the formula, and poverty can lead to mothers over-diluting the formula to make it go further.
a variety of techniques may be used for children and adolescents.
this helps them alleviate the need for a time out.
jeri danger of infant soy formuladanger of infant soy formula premature, early puberty related to soy products elaine hollingsworth, director of the hippocrates health center of australia and author of take control of your health and escape the sickness industry, writes about the terrible effects ofsoy products on children: "i am not exaggerating when i say that hundreds of people have rung me during the past year to tell me about dreadful health problems that started after taking up the soy habit.
occasionally i receive emails from breastfeeding mothers or members of lll who strongly disagree with giving water to infants.
a 50-pound, active child, for example, needs about a quart  of water each day to stay hydrated.
compression resets spindle fibers and effects pressure receptors which  has a positive neurological effect.
these findings were confirmed by recent research from the philippines (4).
please read the other  points of viewfrom readers' emails juices cannot replace water - there is no replacement for water.
parents following yogi teachings need to make their own  compromises between their child's health and their religious beliefs.
in addition, sleep patterns significantly improved; time asleep  increased from 79.7% to 91.3%.
symptoms of add and adhd (a frequently diagnosed disorder in school-age children) significantly diminished.
in this respect, someone with a background in childcare, education, special education and/or crisis intervention is ideal.
for example, in the first days after birth, drinking water has been found to increase the severity of newborn jaundice.
you should preface your article with this information for your readers, so they will know this is a religious belief, rather than a scientifically based article.
it is also closer in content to mammals  who nurse very frequently such as kangaroos  whose young do not get  seaprate water.
he is trained in touch and massage for children with special needs, neonatal massage, infant massage and therapeutic crisis intervention.
it has some interesting  articles.
reiki is easy to learn especially for  children who have an innate sense of healing energy.
this helps them alleviate the need for a  “time out.”
"   learn about the legal class action against aspartame.
transfer factor for people and animals overcoming stress naturally overcoming the sugar blues and getting off prozac healing shingles/herpes zoster naturally and rapidly flaxseed oil the wonder healer cholesterol myth - fats that heal, fats
her parents watched, terrified that she might die.
in our own office we have seen many autistic children in recent years, and our own experience has been very similar, many parents reporting that deterioration of their children took place following vaccines.
your rights- in health care when it comes tomandatory vaccination.
parents,  guardians and therapist are in control; their role is to guide and assure that  the child feels safe and comfortable at all times.
it is safe, effective and educates for a  lifetime.
the  histamine-directed chemical messenger systems are activated to arrange a new,  lower quota of water for the drought-stricken areas.
autism: is there a vaccine connection?
on learning that the baby was indeed "immunised", the  parents may be reassured that its symptoms will all clear up.
if they persist in considering the baby's reaction serious, they may be labelled as anxious parents or trouble-makers.
long term effects reported by teachers included more time on task and lower conners hyperactivity scores.
see his paper on sperm warfare.
there are some mothers who at an early age give a lot of fruit to their  babies.
he describes a variety of more reliable ones, and helps you learn to understand when your body is calling for water.
" other articles of possible interest: pesticides and breastfeeding http://www.lalecheleague.org/llleaderweb/lv/lvmayjun94p37.html
understanding your baby's needs natural birth and home birth ritalin free kids: helping children, not drugging them homeopathy for children and infants forced drugging of childrenparents facing jail over compulsory drug orders.
on learning that the baby was indeed "immunised", the parents may be reassured that its symptoms will all clear up.
in empowers; time out alienates.
she is doing better in school and feels better about herself.
if babies "knew" the difference, would they be content to nurse if they truly wanted water instead of mommy's milk?
sometimes children like to get into child’s pose or other poses  while receiving massage therapy to enhance its effect.
children with cancer  showed significant improvement on all blood count measures including white and  red blood count, platelet count and hemoglobin level.
yes - mother's milk is a complete food but it cannot substitute water and  air.
studies have shown that circumcision, far from being a harmless and painless procedure, is one of the most painful procedures that can be performed on an infant and has potentially far-reaching detrimental physical and psychological consequences.
this paper explores civil management of vaccine injury for victims seeking compensation through the national vaccine injury compensation program legal issues raised by the growing international movement away from mass mandatory immunization would you allow big brother to enforce vaccinations on your kids?
waterborne diseases fed straight to vulnerable babies causes what is now a common condition in many parts of the world - diarrhoea, vomiting, respiratory infections, malnutrition, dehydration and commonly death - known as bottle-baby disease."
massage offers a natural way to connect  and bond.
government enforced vaccinationsvaccination tracking registry - government programs that limit your choices -and
please read theother points of view from readers' emails water - a must for new born babies produced by the sai sanjeevini foundation in india and in some other countries, mothers of new born babies are being given the dangerous advice that the baby must not be given any water for the first 6 months.
an infant receiving three feedings of extra fluids a day  was almost three times more likely to die than an exclusively breastfed  infant'.
as to nipple confusion - well i have seen babies in the thick of their feed  when the hind milk is coming - actually stop the feed, ask for water and then  go back to the feed - almost exactly as adults tend to ask for water in the  middle of a meal (considered by some to be an unhealthy practice - but that is  another story) when the food is particularly dry.
for  this reason, an initial consultation that is child-centered and child-directed  is critical.
every few hours our body throws out poisons from the body in the form of urine.
they keep repeating to me, "i didn't know, i just didn't know, the doctor told me to drink it for my bones and give him soy formula." soy formulas and the effects of isoflavones on the thyroid - environmental scientist and long-time campaigneragainst soy-based infant formulas, dr mike fitzpatrick, warns about the risk of thyroid disease in infants fed soy formulas, high soy consumers and users of isoflavone supplements.
the acid-alkaline balance's impact on health allicin, the heart of garlic - mother nature's defender wheatgrass juice: nectar of health and rejuvenation healing earth: fulvic acid and shilajit
the  person who is writing to you has shifted the emphasis from "water" to  "bottle".
there is no standard quantity.
interestingly, they are invariably asked when the baby was  immunised.
he says that honey is an unsafe food for any infant and should not be given to children younger than 12 months old.
a dry mouth is  not a reliable indicator of your body's water needs.
an infant receiving three feedings of extra fluids a day was almost three times more likely to die than an exclusively breastfed infant'.
most are equally vague about the reasons for this "advice".
if your baby is a new-born, boil  the water with a few grains of sauf (fennel seeds) and one or two whole pepper  balls.
( note : be careful about giving honey to infants because honey is known to cause botulism in babies.
water is also needed to carry toxic waste away from the cells.
with children and adolescents, direct instruction may be given to the  parent or guardian; however, the older the child, the more common it is to have  the therapist perform the massage.
testimonials parents, caregivers, therapists and doctors have seen the benefits of  holistic pediatric massage therapy.
bovine growth hormones in your milk beware of genetically engeneered foods radiation emergencies:protecting the thyroid gland weight loss: natural and healthy solutions west nile virus - what the media won't tell you most popular natural health products safe and effective remedies for people and pets about the author of this website most popular health products doctors and parents expose how vaccines are crippling our children.
but i am disturbed by the article stating that babies
he  says, "the concern is with infant botulism.
profound life-giving properties of marine phytoplankton do you have a question or need guidance?
more at shirley's wellness cafe: holistic animal health natural health for children natural health for women natural health for men steroids' devastating side effects natural alternative to steroids superbug drug-resistant health threat natural support of immune function arthritis conditions - natural treatment eyesight conditions - natural solutions diabetes alternative medicine health issues: consumer alert!
this is not surprising, since it has been known for years that isoflavones in soy can depress thyroid function, causing autoimmune thyroid disease and even cancer.
email: madingj@execpc.com location: wisconsin, usa date: june 10, 2004
the controversy stems from the thousands of deaths and permanent disabilities attributed to vaccination annually, as well as the many published medical studies, government statistics, congressional testimonies, and other credible sources that directly contradict commonly held assumptions about vaccine safety and effectiveness.
crying for sleep or carrying 3.
it was usually  manifest as great difficulty in reading and writing, obvious problems with  memory and grossly impaired orientation to time, place and  person.
sincerely yours, name:   winnie mading, bsn, ibclc
this hindmilk is what satisfies his appetite.
please use your own common sense and your instinct to decide what is good  for your baby.
percussion is stimulating at first; however, over time it can have a soothing effect.
one  study in australia found that newborns who were given water with sugar after  each feeding at the breast lost more weight than babies who were breastfed  exclusively.
scores on the conners scale (a frequently used assessment for diagnosis) decreased from 28.0 to 11.3.
love and light to you and yours, poonam, from the sanjeevini foundation email poonam at sai sanjeevini foundation   web site: sai sanjeevini  foundation is a public charitable trust engaged in community service activities  related to health and healing - of human beings, animals and the environment.
"teresa pitman "in india and in some other countries, mothers of new born babies are being given the dangerous advice that the baby must not be given any water for the first 6 months.
in this way, he claims you can prevent, treat, and cure a variety of  conditions of ill health, at no cost, with what he calls nature's miracle  medicine: water.
these treatments can be safer, less expensive and possibly even more effective than traditional methods.
these mandates last for 40 or so years and they're impossible to repeal.
this is why babies are more  likely to be satisfied after a complete feeding on at least one breast rather  than a few minutes on each breast.
the foundation's health and healing activities are  centred around santhana sai sanjeevini a spiritual healing system to awaken the  body's own healing power.
if you  wish your baby's well-being -please give him or her water.
botulinum spores are found widely in soil, dust, and honey.
there is good scientific reasoning behind this.
practice therapeutic massage for infants, children and adolescents differs  from adult therapy in many ways: infant massage is usually taught to  parents/guardians and is easy to learn.
beyond this, aspartame disrupts fetal development by aborting it or inducing defects.
this can cause much frustration for children and their parents and can even result in relationship difficulties if the problem is not addressed.
our body is made up of 80% water.
we use  pure silver bowls with silver spoons and we give the water a few drops at a  time and very soon the baby wants the silver glass which is the next step.
human milk is much closer in composition to that of other animals whose young are born immature and totally dependent for nutrition (meaning both food and water).
by dr. jane bicks dvm why raw food?
according to dr.  batmanghelidj, the body possesses many different thirst signals.
they end up following all the advice that is convenient to them - they end up giving the formula and cows milk for their convenience and abstaining from the wter also since it is convenient not to have to worry about one more thing.
i can't help, and i don't  think anyone can.
the autism research institute of san diego is now widely known as an active support group for families with autistic children and is one of the more active organizations in this field.
they reduce depression, harmful effects of stress, and mood swings.
they are illiterate but they can hear the govt advertisement to go to the nearest medical centre if they are pregnant.
"nicholas regush abcnews.com civil management and criminal consequences of vaccine injury vaccine injuries can have both civil and criminal ramifications.
why parents with hiv dont treat their kids .
this book explains a new discovery that lack of water in the  body--chronic dehydration--is the root cause of many painful degenerative  diseases, asthma, allergies, hypertension, excss body weight, andsome emotional  problems including depression.
every grandmother knows and most mothers soon get to know these 4 ways of crying.
this has occurred even when the honey was only used to sweeten  a pacifier (european journal of epidemiology, nov 1993).
she discovered that neonates receiving regular massage gained47% more weight than those receiving no massage.
shirley do babies need water to drink?
they  also developed better organized sleep patterns and showed more appropriate  behavior after massage therapy.
"autism: is there a vaccine connection?
shirley the following article "water - a must for new born  babies"was produced by the sai sanjeevini foundation (ssf) and copied on  this site with ssf's permission.
water: how important is it for infants?
the baby cries in atleast 4 distinct ways when it wants to tell the mother what it needs: 1.
standard hospital practice is to place preemie twins in separate incubators to reduce the risk of infection.
mr. yurko  insists that he did not kill his son; rather, he now claims that his son died  from a combination of medical mistreatment and an adverse reaction to  immunizations.
during a session the reiki practitioner simply sends healing energy by putting his/her hands on or slightly above the clients body.
high soy diet during pregnancy and nursing may cause developmental changes in children two separate studies one in animals and the other in humans, suggest that a diet high in soybeans and other legumes during pregnancy and breastfeeding may have a subtle but long-term impact on the development of children.
the child has final approval on whether or not to book a future  session.
water must be available to carry vital elements, oxygen, hormones, and chemical  messengers to all parts of the body.
human babies don't walk to the waterhole  soon after birth!
without sufficient water to wet all parts equally, some more remote parts of the body will not receive the vital elements that water supplies.
the ability to  communicate with children is key.
with certified  organic food rapidly becoming the nutrition of choice by the health conscious  amongst us, why would you accept any less for your skin?
it is also closer in content to mammals who nurse very frequently such as kangaroos whose young do not get seaprate water.
children have an innate sense about who and what feels right and may help them.
the animal baby almost from day  one crawls to the mother's breast - the human baby has to be carried and  physically put to the breast.
the qualifying opinion that matters most, though, is your child’s.
human milk is much closer in composition to that of  other animals whose young are born immature and totally dependent for nutrition  (meaning both food and water).
this is why dehydration produces pain as its first alarm signal.
for parents-to-be and new parents understanding your baby's needs dispelling the fear of spoilingyour baby the family bed
our site also caters to these women and so does your site.
if they remain in the body they produce toxins i.e. poisons.
without sufficient water to constantly wet  all parts, your body's drought-management system kicks into action.
the book explains the damaging effects of  dehydration in the fourth dimension of time.
the infant who has a tummy full of water will drink less  milk at his feedings, and his mother's breasts will decrease milk production in  response.
the practitioner uses light pressure on meridian points to open and clear energy pathways, gently massages shoulders and feet, and clears chakras and auras through intention using crystals.
as toronto lactation consultant anne kirkham explains, "giving water to young babies can make some undesirable things happen and can suppress other good things."
i can't help but wonder if the infants cited who seemed to be short on water were not being nursed physiologically-in other words were being made to adhere to an arbitrary schedule rather than according to baby's needs.
(in very much the same way that cow's milk contains ddt and other pesticides that the cow takes in, the toxins that the mother takes in and also those which her own body produces, are passed on to the baby in the milk) - that mother's milk is complete - no water is therefore needed.
sandra k. knowles and her colleagues at the sunnybrook health sciences centre in toronto reviewed canadian data on more than 1,500 cases of drug reactions between 1985 and 1995.
vaccines and sudden infant death syndrome (sids) vaccine and diabetes connection anthrax vaccine facts and gulf war syndrome government enforced vaccinations: vaccination tracking registry how to legally avoid unwanted immunizations of all kinds avian, swine flu-virus, tamiflu drug: shocking discovery nosodes: alternative to conventional vaccines search shirleyswellnesscafe.com
choosing a practitioner
this can result in irreparable damage to the baby's kidneys.
what exactly is a healing crisis?
if you find yourself struggling to put your child to sleep night after night, then it is important to do something about it.
nmt neuromuscular technique employs light, sustained pressure with thumb or finger which reduces built-up knots and relieves the symptoms of stress.
it has some interesting articles.
sudden infant death syndrome: astonishing facts autism: is there a vaccine connection?
water for new born babies date: fri, 24 jul  1998 10:16:09 -0500 from: heidi armstrong  shirley, you have a lot of wonderful information on the natural  health for children page.
homeopathic medicine is one such alternative.
the question is of water.
for more information call 207 522-7257, e-mail  bcote@anewawakening.org or visit www.anewawakening.org.
holistic children's health : nutrition for babies and children attachment parenting ear infections: alternative to tubes and antibiotics pshychiatry - betraying and drugging children for profit childhood vaccinations: are they really safe and effective?
how shirley saved her dog's life with homeopathy and raw foods.
the baby milk action website athttp://www.gn.apc.org/babymilk/ claims that "where water is unsafe a bottle-fed child is up to 25 times more likely to die as a result of diarrhoea than a breastfed child."
professor l. vincent - founder of bioelectronics "many here voice a silent view that the salk and sabin polio vaccines, being made from monkey kidney tissue, has been directly responsible for the major increase in leukaemia in this country.
food unfit for pets all natural healthy pet food animal nutritional therapy natural animal health homeopathy for animals renal failure - urinary tract condition animals messengers of love and wisdom pet allergies, skin problems, obsessive biting self, chewing paws
published medical studies,government statistics, congressional testimonies, and other credible sources directly contradict commonly held assumptions about vaccine safety and effectiveness.
3-as far as comparing with animals whose young drink water soon (as was stated in one response from the original writer)-remember that different mammals make different composition milks based on the needs of that species.
“for the  first time he has been able to face his nightmares…
the parent/guardian is present at all times and serves a vital role.
the baby milk action  website athttp://www.gn.apc.org/babymilk/ claims that "where water is  unsafe a bottle-fed child is up to 25 times more likely to die as a result of  diarrhoea than a breastfed child."
this baby food action site http://www.anatomy.usyd.edu.au/danny/bfag/ puts it this way, "the water  mixed with the formula is often contaminated.
sai sanjeevini foundation is a public  charitable trust engaged in community service activities related to health and  healing - of human beings, animals and the environment.
there may be ideallyc situations but how many mothers are able to follow it - water is something that a mother wants to give instinctively - its doctors orders that say no water.
every grandmother knows and most mothers soon get to know these 4 ways of  crying.
in another study, computation time and accuracy were positively effected by therapeutic massage.
the chiidren you will meet here suffered a severe reaction to a routine dpt (diphtheria.
stress hormones cortisol, epinephrine and norepinephrine significantly decreased.
"dr f. klenner, m.d. why are a growing number of parents and health care professionals  around the world questioning vaccination?
buttram a criminal consequence of vaccine injury: misdiagnosed shaken baby syndrome by allan phillips "many infants who suffer the so-called 'shaken baby syndrome' may be victims of undiagnosed vaccine damage
silver has traditionally been used in india for feeding the baby.
long term effects reported by teachers included  more time on task and lower conners hyperactivity scores.
" professor l. vincent - founder of bioelectronics "many here voice a silent view that the salk and sabin polio vaccines,  being made from monkey kidney tissue, has been directly responsible for the  major increase in leukaemia in this country.
" other articles of possible interest: pesticides and breastfeeding  http://www.lalecheleague.org/llleaderweb/lv/lvmayjun94p37.html
the antibiotics amoxicillan and ampicillin accounted for 24 per cent  of total adverse reactions, with vaccines coming in second at 19 per cent.
according to dr. batmanghelidj, the body possesses many different thirst signals.
massage offers a natural way to connect and bond.
please  read theother points of view from readers' emails breast milk has many benefits for babies that are superior to formula.
the interview process is usually brief.
rob robertson, md more dr. jerry tennant, m.d. says that marine phytoplankton contains almost everything one needs to sustain life and to restore health by providing the raw materials to make new cells that function normally.
the most important lesson is how to connect, be  aware and present through all states (crying, quiet alert, active alert, drowsy  and sleeping) and stages of growth.
please check out this article by dr. greene.
i think most babies also know  when they want to change the breast - it is not the mother but the baby which  usually asks for a breast change.
what every parent should know before their childen are vaccinated!
reiki is easy to learn especially for children who have an innate sense of healing energy.
it involves lifting, grasping and releasing muscles.
babies who are breastfed are reportedly less likely to get sick (with diarrhea, gastrointestinal illness, urinary-tract infections, respiratory disease, pneumonia or sudden infant death syndrome (sids), less likely to have allergies, less likely to have later weight problems, less likely to have ear infections, and -- according to a study published in themay 8, 2002, issue of the journal of the american medical association -- likely to be more intelligent.
the only way these dead cells or toxins can be flushed out of the body is  if the baby drinks adequate water.
treatment steroids the sleaziest of drugs - natural alternative to steroids soy: the dark side of america's favorite "health" food tap and bottled water hidden toxins threatens our health the ugly side of cosmetics west nile virus - what the media won't tell you how shirley achieved optimum health after a lifetime of suffering no longer blind.
high soy diet during pregnancy and nursing may cause developmental  changes in children two separate studies – one in animals and the other in  humans, suggest that a diet high in soybeans and other legumes during pregnancy  and breastfeeding may have a subtle but long-term impact on the development of  children.
these findings were confirmed by recent research  from the philippines (4).
natural health care for children and babies ear tubes?
use of this site signifies your agreement to the disclaimer return to top
" i've read that many babies die because they get sick from mothers using contaminated water to mix their formula.
it was developed by  dr. randolph stone, a chiropractor who combined the wisdom of acupressure,  chiropractic, ayurvedic and chinese systems of healing.
. instructor and reiki master.
there cannot be absolutes  in this - we cannot say "never" give water and we cannot say "so  much water must be given".
besides, mother's milk also contains toxins passed on by the mother and only water can wash these out of the baby's body.
they tell me heartbreaking stories about baby girls who show signs of early  maturation, such as underarm  odour, breast development, body hair and  even menstruation as early as two, three and four years of age!
- personal stories of vaccine damage and its tiny victims.
sai sanjeevini foundation is a public charitable trust engaged in community service activities related to health and healing - of human beings, animals and the environment.
i would never give honey to an infant.
heidi email heidi heidi armstrong  web site: labor of love childbirth support
at the end of the session, children often report feeling a sense of peace and ease.
giving water in the early weeks can also interfere with breastfeeding.
giving water in the early weeks can also interfere  with breastfeeding.
after receiving a 15 minute massage for 10  consecutive school days, the percentage of time on task increased from 43% to  77%.
source of this dangerous"advice" and the reasons behind it.
in this way i feel that you can then make your own decision and choices.
until recently, the vaccine death would have just been labelled "sudden infant death", particularly if the symptoms and pathological findings were minimal.
'accidents' do happen and should be dealt with kindly and sensitively in order to prevent emotional problems.
note:  not everyone agrees with the following article.
how does it help your body?
water: how important is it for infants?water: how important is it for infants?
by far the  worst cases of soy damage are reported to us by women who have drunk soy milk  while pregnant, and then fed their babies soy formula.
the doctor also (sometimes) says give exclusively breast milk.
kneading relaxes muscles and takes pressure off nerves.
our site  also caters to these women and so does your site.
please read miracles of water medical report: a new medical discovery .
learn about the legal class action against aspartame.
the e-book covers in-depth the vaccine controversy, pediatric dentistry, oncology as well as childhood psychiatry and psychology.
many other conditions were positively effected my massage therapy including juvenile rheumatoid arthritis, diabetes, asthma, migraine headaches, dermatitis, bulimia, anorexia, and more.
silver inhibits the survival and growth of all kinds of germs.
the la leche league international mission is: to help mothers worldwide to breastfeed through mother-to-mother support, encouragement, information, and education and to promote a better understanding of breastfeeding as an important element in the healthy development of the baby and mother.
this is a national catastrophe."
many other  conditions were positively effected my massage therapy including juvenile  rheumatoid arthritis, diabetes, asthma, migraine headaches, dermatitis,  bulimia, anorexia, and more.
if there is insufficient water, the toxins become  concentrated and can result in severe "clogging" of the kidneys,  resulting in dangerous kidney disorders and even kidney failure.
"more... return to the main entrance of holistic health care for people and animals shirleyswellnesscafe.com (
cortisol, epinephrine, norepinephrine and serotonin are often targeted in drug therapy.)
more often than not,  children will ask to preview a session by “sampling” various  techniques.
suddenly, brielle went into critical condition.
the truth is that 99.9999% of babies  arefed formula and/or cows milk in addition to breast milk.
for some this is a first!
perhaps the greatest benefit of  hpmt is that it presents a unique opportunity for children, parents and  guardians to feel empowered and confident while learning about safe and  nurturing touch.
nature did not intend infants to be fed hormones, and life-threatening consequences occur when they are.
this is why babies are more likely to be satisfied after a complete feeding on at least one breast rather than a few minutes on each breast.
sickness - aspartame disease beware of canola oil and its marketing deception engineered fats and oils & the degenerative disease epidemic big pharma, ama, fda endangering your health for profit cholesterol myth,  danger of statin and low blood cholesterol diabetes deadly deception - natural treatments for diabetes fluoride deception: wide range of serious health problems gmo: health risks of genetically engineered foods gulf war syndrome causes and illnesses questioning chemotherapy, toxic drugs in cancer
dangers of modern medicine: iatrogenic diseases healing asthma: a drugless approach alzheimer's disease: there is hope!
this is a deadly  combination.
homeopathic medicine for yourself, your family, pets have you heard about urine therapy?
music is typically played during sessions.
babies who are breastfed are reportedly less likely to get sick (with diarrhea,  gastrointestinal illness, urinary-tract infections, respiratory disease,  pneumonia or sudden infant death syndrome (sids), less likely to have  allergies, less likely to have later weight problems, less likely to have ear  infections, and -- according to a study published in themay 8, 2002, issue of  the journal of the american medical association -- likely to be more  intelligent.
there is a typical dry hoarse cry for water which all grandmothers recognise  and crying in different ways is the only way a child can communicate with the  mother.
this deterioration may be fast, or may slowly inch in until the parents  notice that something is very wrong with their child and then rush it to the  doctor or hospital.
they are sent  home with the advice, "give your baby panadol".
click here to contact shirley .
nowhere in their training as doctors are they taught what happens if one does not drink an adequate amount of water every day. "
it works with the bodys bioenergy systems.
serotonin (a neurotransmitter that regulates mood, sleep and appetite) significantly increased with massage therapy.
one study in australia found that newborns who were given water with sugar after each feeding at the breast lost more weight than babies who were breastfed exclusively.
here is a quote from one of them...
the content of this page may be copied in part without specific permission as long as full credit is given with a link back to this page/website.
as to nipple confusion - well i have seen babies in the thick of their feed when the hind milk is coming - actually stop the feed, ask for water and then go back to the feed - almost exactly as adults tend to ask for water in the middle of a meal (considered by some to be an unhealthy practice - but that is another story) when the food is particularly dry.
if you need assistance to find information click here to contact shirley or call 206-984-3009 or 323-389-0560.
as a result of extensive research into the role of water in the body, the  author, a medical doctor, believes that he has found chronic dehydration to be  the cause of many conditions including asthma, allergies, arthritis, angina,  migraine headaches, hypertension, raised cholesterol, chronic fatigue syndrome,  multiple sclerosis, depression, and diabetes in the elderly.
this is a  religious belief, as is the belief that breastmilk does not supply sufficient  and adequate fluid for the newborn.
its founding director, bernard rimland, ph.d., has provided the statistics that, in their experience, from 50 to 60% of parents with autistic children believe that their children were damaged by vaccines.
it ruins female  sexual response and induces male sexual dysfunction.
coping with a fussy baby don't ignore your baby's cries attachment parenting...and more.
the wonder food with healing power antibiotic resitance crisis - the prebiotics and probiotic revolution the new healing science of glyconutrients what is homeopathy?
of course, breastmilk supplies all  the fluid a newborn needs, and adding water only throws the system out of  balance.
note: not everyone agrees with the following article.
doctors and scientists from 15 countries have rallied to support alans innocence, as have members of anti-vaccination/pro-choice groups from around the world.more "the fda admits that the 12,000 reports it receives annually on pharmacologic side effects from vaccines represent only a fraction of what actually occurs.
if there are  mothers whose children do not cry for water - well then, their milk must be so  pure that they truly do not need it.
emotional freedom technique combines techniques used in hypnotherapy and acupressure.
subject: about the article saying that newborns need water... date: sat, 20 nov 1999 02:27:58 -0800 from: "jeri" <approbat@aa.net hi!
ever since mass vaccination of infants began, reports of serious brain, cardiovascular, metabolic and other injuries started filling pages of medical journals."
detoxification for optimum health therapeutic fasting and internal cleansing the immune system: the body's defense department healing with flowers, herbs and things mind body spirit connection and miraculous healing overcoming stress and depression the natural way the parasite menace in humans and animals your liver: a powerful shield in a giant battle healthy solutions to weight problems the acid-alkaline balance's impact on health healing powers of living (raw) foods and juices marine phytoplankton: profound life-giving most popular nutritional life-giving products cayenne pepper medicinal use and health benefit oils that can save your life - the omega 3 fats engineered fats and oils & the degenerative disease epidemic colostrum, transfer tactor and your immune system magnesium's powerful impact on health and vitality healing herbal teas therapeutic healing herbs rain forest herbs and plants integrity and life force phytotherapy and enzyme therapy with green juice the-mud-that-heals, healing clay healing earth marine plants & fresh water algae enhance health, detoxify glyconutrient's role in people and animals' health chia seeds  is one of the richest sources of omega-3 oil coconut oil for health and vitality, anti-obesity healing power of sunlight and vitamin d salt deficiency: the cause of many serious diseases water the great healer !
while reciting positive affirmations, the client  is taught to tap certain meridian points which alleviates, and sometimes  eliminates, emotional distress.
i've read that many babies die because they get sick from mothers using  contaminated water to mix their formula.
the first thing to look for in a holistic pediatric massage therapist is completion of a reputable program and license to practice in the state where service is provided.
"babies who are breastfeeding  well don't have much problem with jaundice," says kirkham, "but those  who are given water as well will become more jaundiced, and this makes them  sleepy and lethargic."
he offers holistic  pediatric massage therapy, teaches classes in holistic healing for children and  families, and offers training in hpmt for parents, caregivers and massage  therapists.
6 minute video a story so heartwarming, it's unreal!
when i read "water- a must for new born  babies", i thought that this was important information to share with  others and decided to publish it on my site.
the baby puts its own hands and fingers into the mouth and these are loaded with bacteria picked up by the baby from the environment.
teas are one of the most effective ways to benefit from nature's healing herbs teas can help fight depression and anxiety, heal skin conditions and gastrointestinal disorders, regulate hormone imbalances, improve your sex life, prevent illness, and help you heal faster.
a dry mouth is not a reliable indicator of your body's water needs.
emotions such as fear, anxiety and anger are  reflected throughout the body as tight muscles and are sometimes stored there  as knots.
the child has final approval on whether or not to book a future session.
botulinum spores are found  widely in soil, dust, and honey.
this leads to diarhhoea,  malnutrition and often death."
these women cannot restrain their tears when describing the dreadful health problems their children have.
(both groups were fed the same amount of formula.)
several women have rung asking what to do for these pathetic boys, who refuse to participate in sports, fearing shower-room ridicule, and who will be dependent upon thyroid drugs for life.
if you need assistance to find information click here to contact shirley or  call 206-984-3009  or 323-389-0560.
each baby will take only how much he or she needs.
dr. myklebust, md: "teas are rich in antioxidants called polyphenols which are plant chemicals that may help prevent cancer, heart disease, and other diseases"more "i am only a child" 13 year old severm suzuki, plead for the future of her generation.
criminal consequence of vaccine injury anthrax vaccine facts and gulf war syndrome government enforced vaccinations: vaccination tracking registry how to legally avoid unwanted immunizations of all kinds tamiflu, flu vaccine: shocking discovery animals: chronic dis-ease caused by vaccines nosodes: alternative to conventional vaccines library: vaccine controversy books the terror of pediatric medicine is a free downloadable e-book from imva publications.
injury autism: is there a vaccine connection?
if our extreme and fanatical outlooks (however much  towards nature they may tend) prevent us from this listening we would have  harmed our babies more by being "natural".
childhood anxiety children are also vulnerable to stress.
in baby boys, 12 months of soy feeding can lead to gross effects by the age of 11 or 12.
this contains a lot of water and such children may require very little  or no water - i find such children having very little of the hoarse cry.
remember : there are millions of cells that die every day in the body and millions of new cells are born to replace the dead ones each day.
the risk of contracting serious diseases from  bottle feeding is therefore high, but it is further compounded by the fact  that, in the third world, many people don't have access to a clean water supply  with which to make up the formula, and poverty can lead to mothers  over-diluting the formula to make it go further.
upto now we have talked of mothers who are feeding their babies exclusively  with breast milk and sometimes fruits.
the ability to communicate with children is key.
2-if it is necessary to have water that is not part of another "food", does that mean that adults shouldn't drink water with meals or that water drunk with other foods doesn't "count"?
it can also be a useful method of assessment.
h. j. roberts, m.d.: "i have observed severe intellectual  deterioration associated with the use of aspartame products  (nutrasweet/equal/spoonful/canderal/benevia, etc.)
"many children don't drink enough water because they were raised on sugared beverages and juices."
---breast-feeding best bet for babies from the fda website danger of infant soy formula.
in addition, sleep patterns significantly improved; time asleep increased from 79.7% to 91.3%.
many diseases and conditions for which we turn to modern medicine can also be treated naturally with healing herbs.
the first few minutes of each  feeding consist of "foremilk" which contains much of the proteins,  vitamins, and lactose.
http://www.drgreene.com/970602.html
children should always feel empowered telling them that they are in charge.
re: water for new born babies date: sun, 26 jul 1998 00:09:32 -0700
infant massage is taught as an art that comes from the heart and is  simply administered with hands.
"bart classen, a maryland physician, published data showing that diabetesrates rose significantly in new zealand following a massive  hepatitis b vaccine campaign in young children, and that diabetes rates also  went up sharply in finland after three new childhood vaccines were  introduced.
using brief, rapid, rhythmic strokes increases  circulation and tones the muscles.
he describes a variety of  more reliable ones, and helps you learn to understand when your body is calling  for water.
while reciting positive affirmations, the client is taught to tap certain meridian points which alleviates, and sometimes eliminates, emotional distress.
to live, 3 things are essential : air and water are absolutely essential.
there is an increasing amount of research being conducted into the possible link between autism and vaccination.
the page called "mcspotlight on the  baby milk industry" claims that "every 30 seconds, a baby dies from  unsafe bottle feeding. . . .
"babies who are breastfeeding well don't have much problem with jaundice," says kirkham, "but those who are given water as well will become more jaundiced, and this makes them sleepy and lethargic."
let us tune in to mother nature - all our answers and doubts will be  cleared from that - the resident omnipresent, omniscient, omnipotent supreme  consciousness within us.
of equal importance, though, is specialized training along  with extensive and successful experience working with children.
love and light to you and yours, poonam, from the sanjeevini foundation email poonam at sai sanjeevini foundation  web site: sai sanjeevini foundation is a public charitable trust engaged in community service activities related to health and healing - of human beings, animals and the environment.
the first natural stem cell enhancer guide to natural treatments for fibromyalgia immune system: the body's defense department sunlight to restore health cayenne pepper: the great healer
substituting juices  and sodas for water may subject children to potential obesity because kids  become accustomed to sweet flavor.
some children suffer from anxiety and shyness and may struggle to adjust to new situations like school and friendships.
i doubt that there has been any scientific evidence of a different cry for water, especially in the early weeks and months.
the argument that animals do not bottle feed their young with water does  not hold water because within a few days the animal baby in most cases can walk  to the water - which the human baby cannot do.
in response to heidi's email, please read the comments below from the mailbag: other opinion from readers in response the above article response from sai sanjeevini foundation to the above email subject:
babies often cry when they are thirstymore... are you aware of the long-term health damage caused by nutrasweet in your kid's diet soft drink and food?
when my son, sterling, was born in 1979, i was a member of the lll and was taught that babies did not need water or anything else, other than mother's milk.
for this reason, an initial consultation that is child-centered and child-directed is critical.
of equal importance, though, is specialized training along with extensive and successful experience working with children.
from rest of india: 0124-351030 - fax : from overseas : 91-124-351430 from delhi : 8-351430 from rest of india: 0124-351430 - e- mail : healingprayers@saisanjeevini.org website: http://www.saisanjeevini.org/ "every function inside the body is regulated by and depends on water.
it is  soothing and healing during therapy and can played between sessions which  elicit the same effect.
bruce cote is a licensed massage therapist who specializes in  holistic pediatric massage therapy.
when histamine and its  subordinate "drought managers" come across pain-sensing nerves, they  cause pain.
by promoting bottle-given water for babies, you are also promoting potential nipple confusion.
a brazilian study showed that breastfed infants, who received teas or water in the first days of life, did not breastfeed for as long as those who were exclusively breastfed during their first week (2).
there is an increasing  interest in finding safe and effective methods for healing many of the  disabling psychological and physical conditions effecting children today.
these drinks are not a healthy source of hydration and can cause damage to proper development.
if there are toxins from the mother going into the baby - then the  baby needs water to wash these out.
we are now taking case  histories for class action on aspartame starting with seizures, brain tumors,  eye deterioration and blindness, etc.   learn about the legal class  action against aspartame  learn more from the mailbag: other opinion from readers in response the above  article name:   arly helm location: nevada city ca date: june 10, 2004 dear shirley:  your article addressing the so-called "need"  for water is based on a religious text.
cortisol and state anxiety levels significantly dropped.
it is a medically recognised fact that our  body absorbs significant amounts of what we put on our skin.
the baby cries in atleast 4 distinct ways when it wants to tell the mother  what it needs: 1.
more often than not, children will ask to preview a session by sampling various techniques.
this is why people who take antacids to silence their bodies thirst pain become more vulnerable and eventually develop other serious complications of dehydration.
childhood insomnia we all struggle to sleep sometimes and children are no exception.
mother's milk is a complete food but it cannot be a substitute for water and air.
if the dehydration persists and is not corrected naturally with water, it becomes symptom-producing and, in time, develops into a disease condition.
in aspartame murders infants he said: "at  every point in the fertility processaspartame  (nutrasweet/equal/spoonful/canderal/benevia, etc.)destroys.
the  foundation's health and healing activities are centred around santhana sai  sanjeevini a spiritual healing system to awaken the body's own healing power.
if there are mothers whose children do not cry for water - well then, their milk must be so pure that they truly do not need it.
a myth:  breast-fed infants need water supplement http://members.aol.com/tireswing/oldmyths.html#art3 also, i have concerns about the suggestion in the article to add honey to  the water.
along with many other groups throughout  the world, the autism research unit is committed to examining the nature of  this association through scientific research.
parents also report experiencing these same feelings.
when asked, most doctors are very vague as to the source of this "advice" being given to mothers of newborns.
significantly diminished.
more about the danger of soy "at the present time there are growing public and professional concerns about the safety of currently mandated childhood vaccine programs, as reflected in by a series of annual congressional hearings in washington dc that have taken place since 1999, sponsored by the u.s. house government reform committee under the chairmanship of congressman dan burton.
natural remedy for bedwetting bedwetting is common during the pre-school years and children vary in their ability to control their bladders at nighttime.
please  read theother points of view from readers' emails water - a must for new born babies produced by the sai sanjeevini  foundation
the question  is of water.
creative visualization along with breathing and centering exercises is fundamental for teaching a child how to take time-in.
the baby has no other way of communicating with you except by crying.
through observation and/or participation they learn  new ways to connect, communicate and assist their child in the future.
also, learn about legal requirements and exemptions vaccines information: childhood vaccinations: are they really safe and effective?
if our extreme and fanatical outlooks (however much towards nature they may tend) prevent us from this listening we would have harmed our babies more by being "natural".
and if a live child is born aspartame may have heinously damaged the dna of the baby cursing future generation."
they are only a few of the thousands of children who have died  or been left with medication resistant seizure disorders, mental retardation,  physical handicaps, learning disabilities or other chronic illnesses after a  reaction to a routine vaccination.
water for new born babies date: fri, 24 jul 1998 10:16:09 -0500 from: heidi armstrong  shirley, you have a lot of wonderful information on the natural health for children page.
several women have rung asking what to do for these pathetic  boys, who refuse to participate in sports, fearing shower-room ridicule, and  who will be dependent upon thyroid drugs for life.
so, the baby stops progressing, starts deteriorating, and usually  develops signs of respiratory tract infection.
if any other use is desired, permission in writing from shirley lipschutz-robinson is required.
a healing crisis: what is it?
for some readers the very idea of giving water to their nursing babies may  be choking.
this is what i discovered in my research that i mentioned earlier.
learn why some experts urge that breasted or bottle fed infants  drink water in in our chemically polluted environment often, when there are controversial subjects, wherein so called experts  disagree, i will give information about opposing points of view.
(in very much the same way that cow's milk contains ddt and other pesticides that the cow takes in, the toxins that the mother takes in and also those which her own body produces, are passed on to the baby in the milk)yes - mother's milk is a complete food but it cannot substitute water and air.
with children and adolescents, direct instruction may be given to the parent or guardian; however, the older the child, the more common it is to have the therapist perform the massage.
other holistic techniques other than massage therapy may be included to enhance each session or they may be used exclusively.
they  are illiterate but they can hear the govt advertisement to go to the nearest  medical centre if they are pregnant.
the founding principle of hpmt is: feeling comfort, peace and ease eliminates dis-ease; quieting the mind to a state of stillness heals illness.
after that comes the thicker "hindmilk" which provides the baby with the fat he needs.
the extra fluids may be made with unsafe water and given in feeding bottles which are contaminated.
any other food or drink introduced during that time will replace breast milk, therefore the marketing of cereals, teas, juices or water for children under six months can be interpreted intending to replace breast milk and undermine breastfeeding.
we are now taking case histories for class action on aspartame starting with seizures, brain tumors, eye deterioration and blindness, etc.
there is a typical dry hoarse cry for water which all grandmothers recognise and crying in different ways is the only way a child can communicate with the mother.
with the increase of killer viruses, mutated germs, super-resistant germs, and food contaminations, our only hope and defense, must lie within our own immune system.
learn how she was rescued by her twin search shirleyswellnesscafe.comsearch shirleyswellnesscafe.com raising public awareness most modern maladies are caused by prolonged exposure to a combination of negative lifestyles and toxic environmental factors, including junk food and malnutrition, pesticides, antibiotics, microwaves, chemical pollution of food, water and air, lack of exercise and chronic stress.
"sai sanjeevini foundation water - a must for new born babies  produced by the sai sanjeevini  foundation  not everyone agrees with the following article.
therapeutic massage also works for immune disorders.
doctors and scientists from 15 countries have rallied to support  alan’s innocence, as have members of anti-vaccination/pro-choice groups  from around the world.more "the fda admits that the 12,000 reports it receives annually  on pharmacologic side effects from vaccines represent only a fraction of what  actually occurs.
he does not come away hungry if he's gotten the milk that comes down after several minutes of feeding.
only rishis and  yogis can do without these.
disease tonic herbs for longevity, rejuvenation, immunity raw food and juice therapy therapeutic fasting healing with herbs and other natural remedies water: the great healer myth of osteoporosis -
if your baby is over 3 weeks old and you have so far not  given any water, then try the above method - if the baby rejects it (since it  is an unfamiliar texture and taste), then add a touch of honey.
creative visualization creates healthy thoughts and in turn, healthy emotions.
silver inhibits the survival and growth  of all kinds of germs.
it involves lifting, grasping and  releasing muscles.
polarity therapy is a more precise form of energy healing that balances and revitalizes ones energy field.
these women cannot restrain their tears when describing the  dreadful health problems their children have.
this could be due to wind or other digestive problems or even the incorrect formula.
- that water is often contaminated and can cause "infection" in the baby.
aka: mywellnesshouse.com
a brazilian study showed that breastfed infants, who  received teas or water in the first days of life, did not breastfeed for as  long as those who were exclusively breastfed during their first week (2).
" here's an interesting quote from an article about the "who code" http://www.lalecheleague.org/llleaderweb/lv/lvaprmay99p26.html on the la leche league website : "lll leaders know that six months of exclusive breastfeeding is recommended.
) the shirley's wellness cafe's website is personally designed and maintained by shirley lipschutz-robinson.
you can never tell what type of impact you may have on another's life by your actions ... or lack of action.
through observation and/or participation they learn new ways to connect, communicate and assist their child in the future.
this can result in irreparable damage to the baby's  kidneys.
people are taking interest in holistic pediatric massage therapy and it is  becoming a popular choice for many parents and caregivers.
sai sanjeevini foundation: address : 108/39 silver oaks aptts dlf phase 1 gurgaon 122 002  haryana - india phone: from overseas ; 91-124-351030 / from delhi : 8-351030 /  from rest of india: 0124-351030 fax : from overseas : 91-124-351430 from delhi : 8-351430 from  rest of india: 0124-351430 e- mail : healingprayers@saisanjeevini.org website:  http://www.saisanjeevini.org/ "every function inside the body is regulated by and depends on water.
healing eczema: a drugless approach healing psoriasis: a drugless approach parasites infections: symptoms and natural treatment (humans and pets)
however we understand that two reasons are most often given both of which, as we explain below, do not make any sense: yes - mother's milk is a complete food but it cannot substitute water and air.
government enforced vaccinationsvaccination tracking registry - government  programs that limit your choices -and
there are some mothers who at an early age give a lot of fruit to their babies.
another brazilian study showed that each additional daily 'feed' with teas or water was associated with a 40 per cent increase in diarrhoea mortality.
alternative cancer therapies gulf war syndrome causes and illnesses chia seeds:
the essence of these healing oils easily penetrates the olfactory membranes in the nose sending nerve impulses to the brain which ultimately affects the amygdala, the memory center for fear and trauma.
a 1997 study at the center for disease  control and prevention in atlanta found that about 25 percent of new mothers  gave their babies water at least three times per week in the first month of  life.
it was usually manifest as great difficulty in reading and writing, obvious problems with memory and grossly impaired orientation to time, place and person. "
bruce cote is a licensed massage therapist who specializes in holistic pediatric massage therapy.
(in very much the same way  that cow's milk contains ddt and other pesticides that the cow takes in, the  toxins that the mother takes in and also those which her own body produces, are  passed on to the baby in the milk) that water is often contaminated and can cause "infection" in  the baby.
sandra k.  knowles and her colleagues at the sunnybrook health sciences centre in toronto  reviewed canadian data on more than 1,500 cases of drug reactions between 1985  and 1995.
try it out - watch the difference in the baby's happiness.
at the bottom of this page, you will also find a very interesting articlemiracles of water medical report: a new medical discoveryby f. batmanghelidj, m.d which i urge you to read. -
it is administered with a flat hand or fist  and is applied with medium pressure in a rhythmical way.
substituting juices and sodas for water may subject children to potential obesity because kids become accustomed to sweet flavor.
air and water are absolutely essential.
according to pediatrics magazine, many children don't drink enough water  because they were raised on sugared beverages and juices.
"nicholas regush abcnews.com civil management and criminal consequences of vaccine injury vaccine  injuries can have both civil and criminal ramifications.
after only one 15 minute massage, student’s accuracy  increased from an average of 69% to 89% and time of completion decreased from  250 seconds to 234 seconds.
email:   madingj@execpc.com date: june 10, 2004 regarding water for breastfeeding infants: 1-if the water in  breastmilk isn't sufficient, why do women from tropical climates make milk with  a higher water content?
only rishis and yogis can do without these."
the doctors actually end up selling  nestles milk powder (other brands too) to the mother - the money involved in  this scandal is too large for words.
of course, these horrible  problems do not occur with every soy-fed baby, but is it worth taking such a  chance?
polarity therapy is a more precise form of energy  healing that balances and revitalizes ones energy field.
for  example, in the first days after birth, drinking water has been found to  increase the severity of newborn jaundice.
shirley the following article "water - a must for new born babies"was produced by the sai sanjeevini foundation (ssf) and copied on this site with ssf's permission.
it is a medically recognised fact that our body absorbs significant amounts of what we put on our skin.
silver oaks aptts dlf phase 1 gurgaon 122 002 haryana - india - phone: from overseas ; 91-124-351030 / from delhi : 8-351030 /
you need to see the situation in india and other third world countries where advice that you and i have to give does not reach the common man.
without sufficient water to wet all parts  equally, some more remote parts of the body will not receive the vital elements  that water supplies.
aromatherapy uses essential oils to improve  client’s psychological and physical well-being.
the first few minutes of each feeding consist of "foremilk" which contains much of the proteins, vitamins, and lactose.
i havepublished their emails in this  page to share their opininion with you.
if they persist in  considering the baby's reaction serious, they may be labelled as anxious  parents or trouble-makers.
as a result of extensive research into the role of water in the body, the author, a medical doctor, believes that he has found chronic dehydration to be the cause of many conditions including asthma, allergies, arthritis, angina, migraine headaches, hypertension, raised cholesterol, chronic fatigue syndrome, multiple sclerosis, depression, and diabetes in the elderly.
i hope this clarifies to some extent your dilemma in understanding why we  recommend water.
the researchers felt this was a significant problem.
other holistic techniques other than massage therapy may be included to enhance  each session or they may be used exclusively.
" what every parent should know before their childen are vaccinated!
statistics for children and adolescents were equally compelling.
the acid-alkaline balance's impact on health clay therapy - our earth, our cure bee pollen: healing from the hives magnesium medical miracles marine plants to enhance health profound life-giving properties of marine phytoplankton
in aspartame murders infants he said: "at every point in the fertility processaspartame (nutrasweet/equal/spoonful/canderal/benevia, etc.)destroys.
diabetes type 1 and type 2 eczema, atopic dermatitis - fibromyalgia and chronic fatigue syndrome gulf war syndrome causes and illnesses infection - drug-resistant bacteria parasites infections in humans and animals dental care - mercury free dentistry eye and vision natural care overcoming the sugar blues and getting off prozac psoriasis skin condition the skin is a reflection of our internal health stress and depression: the natural approach stem cell therapy - stem cell nutrition from aqua-botanical source glutathione - what is it?
rearing healthy pups and kittens saving shasta's life: a holistic approach sample raw pet food recipes toxic environment and your pet's illness alternative to antibiotics testimonials of amazing animal healing.
in peru, babies who received water and teas in addition to  breastmilk had twice as many days with diarrhoea in any given month as those  receiving only breastmilk (3).
if babies  "knew" the difference, would they be content to nurse if they truly  wanted water instead of mommy's milk?
hyperactivity/attention deficit disorder: no drugs avoiding ritalin: safe and effective alternatives.
these factors are further aggravated by the failure of modern medicine to recognize them as agents of dis-"ease" and death and the consequent failure to take preventative measures against them.more shirley was once a victim of the never-ending flow of propaganda from the medical establishment who wants to maintain a monopoly on the word "cure" and who wants us to believe that we have no control over our own health and that our only hope to get "well" is with drugs, surgery and radiation.
it is safe, effective and educates for a lifetime.
well, i don't agree that exclusively breastfed babies need water.
mother's milk is a complete food but it cannot be a  substitute for water and air.
also, they were found to be significantly less tactile defensive and less depressed.
sometimes children like to get into childs pose or other poses while receiving massage therapy to enhance its effect.
water must be available to carry vital elements, oxygen, hormones, and chemical messengers to all parts of the body.
they usually feel safer, more grounded and more in touch with themselves and their environment.
after receiving a 15 minute massage for 10 consecutive school days, the percentage of time on task increased from 43% to 77%.
when my son, sterling, was born in 1979, i was a member of the lll and was  taught that babies did not need water or anything else, other than mother's  milk.
he offers holistic pediatric massage therapy, teaches classes in holistic healing for children and families, and offers training in hpmt for parents, caregivers and massage therapists.
children have an innate sense about who and what feels right and  may help them.
this is a most ridiculous reason since bacteria is every where!
they usually feel safer, more grounded and  more in touch with themselves and their environment.
remarkable  results were also found with normal infants.