spend your summer with us by calling today to  learn more about our exciting employment opportunities.
publication date: 06/08/2010publication date: 06/08/2010 2010 legislative summary the 2010 legislative session ended in the early morning hours of may 17 after a brief special session was called by the governor.
summer is in full swing and so is clean water action’s canvass recruitment program!
asian carp are voracious eaters that have been moving up the mississippi river system threatening native species wherever they go.
we are currently hiring for part time and full time positions for our field and phone canvasses.
restoring the clean water act the drinking water sources for nearly 1 million minnesotans are at risk of losing clean water act protections.
if you would like to  host a healthy home, healthy water presentation in your community, contactkim  labo.
either dispose of  yard waste as directed by your county or city or use the waste as compost or  mulch.
avoid putting any yard waste and leaves in the gutters and storm drains.
you will need to have the adobe acrobat reader properly installed to view  pdf documents.
restoring the clean water act the drinking water sources for nearly 1 million minnesotans are at risk of  losing clean water act protections.
here is what phone canvass manager, terrance noble, and field canvass  manager, anna waugh, have to say about working for the clean water action  canvasses.
in addition to passing another bill  to keep toxins out of our environment, we were able to stop attempts to weaken  current environment laws and move minnesota towards dirty energy options.
initial results are promising that they have not  established themselves in the great lakes, yet, but efforts will continue to  determine the extent of the asian carp invasion.
don’t dispose of household hazardous waste down the drain, in the  storm drains or on the driveway.
asian carp are voracious eaters that have been moving  up the mississippi river system threatening native species wherever they go.
in addition to passing another bill to keep toxins out of our environment, we were able to stop attempts to weaken current environment laws and move minnesota towards dirty energy options.
use low-flow showerheads and take shorter showers.
clean water action would like to offer a few tips that each of us can do at home to help protect, restore and conserve our precious water resources: conserving water in your home: keeping our water safe at home: landscaping for better water: get the extension service water recommendations (pdf, 283 kb)
spend your summer with us by calling today to learn more about our exciting employment opportunities.
harvest and keep rainwater on your site by using rain barrels, rain  gardens and permeable paving.
the responsible purchasing network provides aproducts  database of greenseal and/or ecologo certified cleaning products.
fights over the state  budget and funding for health care and education dominated the atmosphere at  the capitol, making it a tough year to pass meaningful environmental  legislation.
congress now has an opportunity to fix this  and restore protections weakened by the supreme court and bush administration.
an electric fence was constructed near chicago to prevent the carp from traveling from the illinois river through the artificial canal system and into lake michigan.
these senators have been working with senator graham  (r-sc) to craft a bill capable of passing the senate since earlier efforts  stalled.
here is what phone canvass manager, terrance noble, and field canvass manager, anna waugh, have to say about working for the clean water action canvasses.
many of the most common cleaning chemicals have safer and less  expensive alternatives.
this past year, we educated over 500 minnesotans about how to  reduce their toxic chemical exposure in their homes and actively support  protective policies with our healthy home presentations.
recipes for  homemade cleaning products can be found atdo it green.
however, once again clean water action was able to celebrate  several legislative victories this session.
preserving the great lakes the potential invasion of asian carp has been one of the dominant great lakes issues as of late.
an  electric fence was constructed near chicago to prevent the carp from traveling  from the illinois river through the artificial canal system and into lake  michigan.
these senators have been working with senator graham (r-sc) to craft a bill capable of passing the senate since earlier efforts stalled.
if you would like to host a healthy home, healthy water presentation in your community, contactkim labo.
climate and clean energy clean water action and all of the other activists and allies working for  strong, comprehensive climate and energy legislation are still waiting for the  introduction of new climate and energy legislation by us senators kerry (d-ma)  and lieberman (i-ct).
increasingly, we all share a responsibility to do our part to protect our  waters.
turn off water when brushing your teeth and shaving.
you canget it free from adobe.
modern dishwashers tend to use less  water per load than washing by hand.
clean water action would like to offer a few tips that each of us can do at home to help protect, restore and conserve our precious water resources pesticide issues gain urgency at federal level pesticide issues have gained momentum and long awaited attention at the federal level this year.
landscaping for better water: avoid watering your lawn except under severe drought conditions.
sometimes it seems like there is not much we can do to  protect the health and vitality of our water because these problems seem too  big.
don’t dispose of medications down the drain.
increasingly, we all share a responsibility to do our part to protect our waters.
use low-flow aerators on the faucets in your house.
tips for water conservation and safety
instead, check with the  minnesota pollution control agency for guidelines on disposal of unused  medications or contact your county sheriff.
how we use water, what happens to the rainwater falling on our lands  and what we send down our drains are the next greatest challenges we must face  together.
sometimes it seems like there is not much we can do to protect the health and vitality of our water because these problems seem too big.
clean water action would like to offer a few tips that each of us can do  at home to help protect, restore and conserve our precious water resources: conserving water in your home: conserve electricity.
congress now has an opportunity to fix this and restore protections weakened by the supreme court and bush administration.
meet our canvassers - is this job
urban storm water washes over hard surfaces,  moving large volumes of water, sediment and pollution to sewers and adjoining  water bodies.
it is also a time when we tend to have our water closer to the  forefront of our minds.
summer is in full swing and so is clean water action’s canvass  recruitment program!
it is also a time when we tend to have our water closer to the forefront of our minds.
store filtered tap water in a pitcher in the fridge instead of bottled  water.
keeping our water safe at home: use green cleaning products that are safer for our waters as well as our  families.
preserving the great lakes the potential invasion of asian carp has been one of the dominant great  lakes issues as of late.
publication date:  06/08/2010
clean water action would like to offer a few tips that each of us can do at  home to help protect, restore and conserve our precious water resources pesticide issues gain urgency at federal level pesticide issues have gained momentum and long awaited attention at the  federal level this year.
use native plants appropriate for your area and plants that require a low  water input.
a draft was released during the middle of may. login or register to post comments printer-friendly version
these include solvents, pesticides and paint.
efforts since then have focused  on a dual track of determining the extent of the immediate problem and finding  a long-term solution.
you will need to have the adobe acrobat reader properly installed to view pdf documents.
a draft was released during the middle of may.
congressman keith ellison of minnesota is leading the fight to ban the highly toxic and commonly used pesticide atrazine, the environmental protection agency (epa) is seeking to disclose inert ingredients in pesticides and the president’s cancer panel released a report stating that chemicals threaten our bodies.
however, once again clean water action was able to celebrate several legislative victories this session.
earth day birthday bash highlights clean water action members, volunteers, allies and staff celebrated earth day’s 40th birthday with food, fun and activism!
this waste will eventually end up untreated in our waterways.
this past year, we educated over 500 minnesotans about how to reduce their toxic chemical exposure in their homes and actively support protective policies with our healthy home presentations.
in this issue of minnesota currents|online: 2010 legislative summary the 2010 legislative session ended in the early morning hours of may 17  after a brief special session was called by the governor.
efforts since then have focused on a dual track of determining the extent of the immediate problem and finding a long-term solution.
climate and clean energy clean water action and all of the other activists and allies working for strong, comprehensive climate and energy legislation are still waiting for the introduction of new climate and energy legislation by us senators kerry (d-ma) and lieberman (i-ct).
fights over the state budget and funding for health care and education dominated the atmosphere at the capitol, making it a tough year to pass meaningful environmental legislation.
initial results are promising that they have not established themselves in the great lakes, yet, but efforts will continue to determine the extent of the asian carp invasion.
how we use water, what happens to the rainwater falling on our lands and what we send down our drains are the next greatest challenges we must face together.
four decades tips for water conservation and safety the summer is a time for hot weather and enjoying our lakes, rivers and  streams.
learn valuable skills, work with fun and exciting people, chat with our members about important environmental issues and build your resume.
summer campgaign updates creating healthy homes and healthy water clean water action continues our work to protect environmental and human  health from toxic chemical exposure through our involvement in the healthy  legacy coalition.
the summer is a time for hot weather and enjoying our lakes, rivers and streams.
congressman keith ellison of minnesota is leading the  fight to ban the highly toxic and commonly used pesticide atrazine, the  environmental protection agency (epa) is seeking to disclose inert ingredients  in pesticides and the president’s cancer panel released a report stating  that chemicals threaten our bodies.
unfortunately, last year asian carp dna was found in the waterway beyond the electric fence sparking fears the fish have breached the barrier and will establish themselves in the great lakes.
native plants often require considerably fewer fertilizers,  pesticides and maintenance.
the summer is a time for hot weather and enjoying our lakes, rivers and  streams.
we are currently hiring for part time and full time  positions for our field and phone canvasses.
unfortunately, last year asian carp dna was found in the waterway  beyond the electric fence sparking fears the fish have breached the barrier and  will establish themselves in the great lakes.
summer campgaign updates creating healthy homes and healthy water clean water action continues our work to protect environmental and human health from toxic chemical exposure through our involvement in the healthy legacy coalition.
the largest use of water in minnesota is for energy  production.
don’t pre-wash dishes  but do scrape off large pieces of food.
cool  season grasses may turn brown and go dormant in the middle of the summer but  will re-grow when rain and cooler weather returns.
earth day birthday bash highlights clean water action members, volunteers, allies and staff celebrated earth  day’s 40th birthday with food, fun and activism!
only wash a full load of dishes and clothes.
contact your county to find your local hazardous waste disposal options.
other landscaping tips can be found at the university of minnesota  extension service get the extension service water recommendations (pdf, 283 kb)
learn valuable skills, work with  fun and exciting people, chat with our members about important environmental  issues and build your resume.