by rich bindell anyone lucky enough to see the grand canyon should understand why grand  canyon national park officials wanted toinstitute a ban on the sale of bottled  water in the park.
posted in bottled water, water | 3 comments | [the following was originally posted by our friends at ecocentric.]
an  hour debate was a small price to pay for free entrance to the $2,500.00 event  that gave us real insight into the newest plans of the global water cartel.
read the full article…posted in bottled water, right to water, tap water, water, water privatization, water shortage, water utility | no comments | by rich bindell
coke’s dasani brand has introduced a new kind of plastic bottle, 30  percent of which is made from plant-based materials.
it also creates mountains of garbage, with less than 25 percent of plastic bottles getting recycled.
read our report: hanging on for pure life  to find out what nestlé is doing to position itself for the future.
some may wonder why anil and i would go there to debate, especially when the audience was comprised of people employed in the water industry.
but national parks  service director jon jarvis blocked the ban right before it took effect, and  shortly after coca-cola made inquires about the ban.
even if you change their shape and keep them underwater, they are  still destructive to the marine environment.
plant bottle or plastic bottle, buying bottled water is  destructive and not at all necessary.
clearly, this salesperson did not do his homework.
according to stribling, coca-cola’s strategy isn’t to try to eliminate waste before it’s created, but to provide recycling bins instead.
read the  full article… posted in bottled water, tap water,  water  |  no comments  | april 28th, 2011
no fewer than six food & water watch staff members received emails from  a salesman with a nestle affiliated bottled water brand over the past few  weeks, asking if we’d be interested in purchasing their bottled water and  various products and services for our office.
(please explorethis  phenomenon further via jennifer grayson’s blog at the red, white and  green.)
the cathedral of st. john the divine’s "value of water: sustaining a green planet" exhibition logomark, on detail of upcycled plastic water bottle sculptural installation by winn rea.
coke’s dasani brand has introduced a new kind of plastic bottle, 30 percent of which is made from plant-based materials.
i think it does — it’s meaning is to distract consumers fromhow damaging the product is to the environment, especially since the remaining 75 percent of plastic bottles end up in landfills.
plant bottle or plastic bottle, buying bottled water is destructive and not at all necessary.
likewise, the price family of stallings, north carolina recently had their sewage service cut off by aqua north carolina despite having paid an overdue bill.
after several emails around the office discussing this ill-conceived sales maneuver, i decided to respond… dear bottled water salesperson, read the full article…posted in bottled water, water | 2 comments | whole foods recommends using bottled water when you brew their coffee.
a few ecocentric bloggers attended the value of water opening on september 22, and were happy to see an impressive turnout of 1,500 guests.
sponsored by all the bad actors in the water industry, from veolia to general electric, the conference url was www.watermeetsmoney.com.
sometimes you have to read between the lines to get to the heart of the story.
my colleague, anil naidoo from the council of canadians, and i were invited  to the meeting to debate the libertarian economist david zetland and william  muhairwe, managing director of uganda’s national water company.
when asked about the ban, susan stribling, a coca-cola spokeswoman, exposed a serious lack of understanding when it comes to waste and recycling.
but, while the entire industry reported losses, one bottled water brand stood alone with increased sales:
coming from a company that has a “green mission”—during a  time of economic crisis, no less—this seems particularly tone deaf.
the truth is that there is no better place to really figure out what they are up to.
plus it isa waste of fossil fuels in  production and transport, using the equivalent of 32 and 54 million barrels of  oil in 2007—enough to fuel about 1.5 million cars for a year.
the park’s ban would include providing water stations for reusable  bottles, but coke would, of course, prefer people buy their product.
the cathedral of st. john the divine’s "value of water:  sustaining a green planet" exhibition logomark, on detail of upcycled  plastic water bottle sculptural installation by winn rea.
many believe this decline was due to a combination of a troubled economy and a growing consumer consciousness about bottled water’s negative environmental impacts.
if he had, he would have figured out pretty quickly what we think aboutbottled water.
5th, 2011 is nestlé’s pure life brand a threat to public water?
blog categories▀ select category activism  (47)  agricultural policy  (32) antibiotics  (15)  aquaculture  (42) bottled water  (68) bp  (9)  catch shares  (7) consumers  (23)  desalination  (1) environment  (32)
this was good news for water advocates, and bad news for the bottled water industry.
but what allowed this brand to shine in an otherwise challenging  marketplace for bottled water?
nestlé's sales account managers should be more careful about their  potential client list.
read the full article… posted in bottled  water, right to water, tap water, water, water privatization, water shortage,  water utility  |  no comments  | march 17th,  2011 bells and whistles can distract consumers from the truth net pens, used for factory fish farming, are destructive to the marine  environment.
read the full article…posted in aquaculture, bottled water, fish, fish farming, tap water, water | 1 comment |
by wenonah hauter ruby williams, a 78-year-old aqua pennsylvania customer, got stuck with  a $40,000 water bill because of a serious leak in the pipes under her home  in bristol township, pennsylvania.
coming from a company that has a “green mission”—during a time of economic crisis, no less—this seems particularly tone deaf.
email help us build our community!
we’re familiar with water’s diverse natural expressions from fog,  rain, streams and rivers to oceans, lagoons, groundwater and springs.
visitors to the park should be able to see the canyon in its  pristine condition, not littered with plastic bottles.
it’s nice to get some good news in the form of a small but important victory from the field:pacific university has banned the sale of bottled water.
be one of the first to know each time a new blog  entry and podcast goes live by subscribing to the smorgasbord and snackcast:  audio food for thought.
stephen p. martin, a grand canyon park official, developed the ban because  30 percent of park waste is fromplastic bottles.
plus it isa waste of fossil fuels in production and transport, using the equivalent of 32 and 54 million barrels of oil in 2007—enough to fuel about 1.5 million cars for a year.
there’s really no reason to object to any attempt to keep a national park free from excess waste.
it also creates mountains of garbage, with less than 25 percent of  plastic bottles getting recycled.
posted in bottled water, water  |  3 comments  | september 28th, 2011 through art, the value of water expressed
invite your friends to  join fww's list share | soaking the customer
it’s not just american consumers that feel the pinch as our municipal  water systems change from public to private hands — and it’s not  just that aqua america is one bad actor, either.
but national parks service director jon jarvis blocked the ban right before it took effect, and shortly after coca-cola made inquires about the ban.
the exhibit – of which grace is a sponsor – is part of an ongoing endeavor by the cathedral to promote the theme of water throughits various programs and events.
this, of course, refers to the idea of consumers placing their empty water bottles into a recycling bin to be reconstituted for further use at a later time.
both  zetland and muhairwe are big proponents of full-cost pricing and dismissive of  the government’s role in providing water.
why make the comparison between the two schools?
last week i was in berlin at the global water summit 2011, a meet up for corporations that want to profit from water as it becomes scarcer.
in that tradition,  the cathedral clergy and staff have been considering the powerful role water  plays in these issues.
the exhibit – of which grace is a  sponsor – is part of an ongoing endeavor by the cathedral to promote the  theme of water throughits various programs and events.
this, of course, refers to the idea of consumers placing  their empty water bottles into a recycling bin to be reconstituted for further  use at a later time.
as part of the episcopal diocese of new york, the cathedral has a strong tradition of unifying people from various backgrounds, religions and faiths to address concerns of social justice, poverty and education.
many believe this  decline was due to a combination of a troubled economy and a growing consumer  consciousness about bottled water’s negative environmental impacts.
starting in august, no one will be able to purchasebottled water on campus or accessbottled water through official university functions.
was it brilliant marketing, or does the pure life brand represent something more than just a bottled water product?read the full article…posted in bottled water, right to water, tap water, water, water shortage | no comments | the take back the tap curriculum is designed to teach kids about the importance of protecting our most essential public resource: water.
read  the full article… posted in bottled water,  desalination, right to water, tap water, water, water privatization, water  shortage, water utility  |  2 comments  | april
by kai olson-sawyer, jamie leo and robin madel the most common chemical compound on earth, water, is everywhere.
no fewer than six food & water watch staff members received emails from a salesman with a nestle affiliated bottled water brand over the past few weeks, asking if we’d be interested in purchasing their bottled water and various products and services for our office.
again, thanks to bad publicity and  public outrage, aqua backed down.
after her situation garnered national media  attention, the private company agreed to reduce her bill to a few hundred  dollars.
like what we have to say?
private interests worldwide increasingly control our water.
no  doubt it will give whole foods naysayers more fodder for calling itwhole  paycheck, since bottled water is thousands of times more expensive than tap  water.
likewise, the price family of stallings, north carolina recently had their  sewage service cut off by aqua north carolina despite having paid an overdue  bill.
since coca-cola is a major donor to the national parks foundation, contributing about $13 million in total to the foundation and the parks, we have to ask: how much influence should a corporate donor have on the operations decisions of an entity like national parks service?
but, coca-cola sells its dasani brand of bottled water to park visitors.
thus, on thisworld water day , food & water watch is happy to launch a special initiative developed to teach the next generation about how to protect our water resources.
but, if only 25 percent of plastic bottles actually reach the recycling bin, does 100 percent recyclability have much meaning?
the truth  is that there is no better place to really figure out what they are up to.
seeing an ad with a vibrant green plant blooming into a plastic bottle from  the heart of its lovely pedals is enough to convince many consumers that a  product is eco-friendly, but it’s merely a distraction.
my colleague, anil naidoo from the council of canadians, and i were invited to the meeting to debate the libertarian economist david zetland and william muhairwe, managing director of uganda’s national water company.
private interests worldwide  increasingly control our water.
in 2008, bottled water sales in the united states experienced a decline  — one that lasted for two consecutive years.
sign up for email to learn how you can protect food and water in your community.
it’s nice to get some good news in the form of a small but important  victory from the field:pacific university has banned the sale of bottled water.
(please explorethis phenomenon further via jennifer grayson’s blog at the red, white and green.)
working with activists and grassroots groups across the state, we defeated  oil and gas industry pro-fracking legislation in colorado.
some may wonder why anil and i would go there to debate, especially when  the audience was comprised of people employed in the water industry.
it’s not just american consumers that feel the pinch as our municipal water systems change from public to private hands — and it’s not just that aqua america is one bad actor, either.
read the full article… posted in bottled water, consumers, justice, privatization, right to water, tap water, water, water  privatization, water shortage, water utility  |  no comments   | november 14th, 2011 is it coca-cola’s grand canyon or ours?
nestlé’s pure life brand could be a major threat to public  water and to water as a human right.
a great way to prepare to face the challenges of the future is to invest today in the knowledge of tomorrow’s leaders.
[the following was originally posted by our friends at ecocentric.]
this was good news for water  advocates, and bad news for the bottled water industry.
congratulations to  the students and alumni who made it happen!
too often, customers are getting a raw deal.
to get involved, fill out a volunteer form or follow the take action link above.
europe  (2)  factory farms  (63) farm bill  (18) farming  (54)  fda  (26) fish  (154) fish farming  (59)  fishing  (36) food  (235) food safety  (40)  fracking  (65) genetically engineered food  (24)  health  (33) justice  (1) labeling  (22)  meat  (34) milk  (37) monsanto  (13)  pollution  (21) privatization  (25) public  health  (15) questionable technologies  (18)  radiation  (1) rbgh  (38)
as part of the episcopal diocese of new york, the cathedral has a strong  tradition of unifying people from various backgrounds, religions and faiths to  address concerns of social justice, poverty and education.
invite your friends to join fww's list by wenonah hauter ruby williams, a 78-year-old aqua pennsylvania customer, got stuck with a $40,000 water bill because of a serious leak in the pipes under her home in bristol township, pennsylvania.
the ad declares that the bottle is made with “100 percent recyclability.”
in that tradition, the cathedral clergy and staff have been considering the powerful role water plays in these issues.
an hour debate was a small price to pay for free entrance to the $2,500.00 event that gave us real insight into the newest plans of the global water cartel.
you're reading smorgasbord - news bites and blogful commentary from food & water watch.
by darcey rakestraw it’s a common practice for brands to cross-market its products on  labels, but i have to say this is a blunder: whole foods suggests on its  “365 brand” coffee label that people brew it using its 365 brand  bottled water.
in a  special appearance, water flows through the cathedral of st. john the  divine’sthe value of water: sustaining a green planet exhibit,  which runs until march 25, 2012.
a great way to prepare to face the challenges of the future is to invest  today in the knowledge of tomorrow’s leaders.
read the full article… posted in aquaculture, bottled water, fish, fish farming, tap water,  water  |  1 comment  | page 1 of 7 1 2 3 4 5 6  ... »
right to water  (41)  school-milk  (16) seafood  (46) snackcast  (29)  tap water  (42) triclosan  (16) water  (221)  water privatization  (59) water shortage  (33) water  utility  (39) world  (10) blog archives▀ april 2006 (14)
even though pacific university is a smaller school than, let’s say,  portland state university (psu), this is still a great win for water advocates  across the country.
the park’s ban would include providing water stations for reusable bottles, but coke would, of course, prefer people buy their product.
sometimes  you have to read between the lines to get to the heart of the story.
read the full article…posted in bottled water, desalination, right to water, tap water, water, water privatization, water shortage, water utility | 2 comments | nestlé’s pure life brand could be a major threat to public water and to water as a human right.
congratulations to the students and alumni who made it happen!
to get involved, fill out a volunteer form or follow the  take action link above.
a few ecocentric bloggers attended the value of water opening on  september 22, and were happy to see an impressive turnout of 1,500 guests.
again, thanks to bad publicity and public outrage, aqua backed down.
according  to stribling, coca-cola’s strategy isn’t to try to eliminate waste  before it’s created, but to provide recycling bins instead.
even the koch brothers’  empire was represented (koch industries helped pollute water with its fossil  fuel operations, so why not profit also from cleaning up the mess?)
was it brilliant marketing, or does the pure  life brand represent something more than just a bottled water product?read the  full article… posted in bottled water, right to  water, tap water, water, water shortage  |  no comments  | march 22nd, 2011 teaching the tap today to protect water for tomorrow the take back the tap curriculum is designed to teach kids about the  importance of protecting our most essential public resource: water.
since coca-cola is a major  donor to the national parks foundation, contributing about $13 million in total  to the foundation and the parks, we have to ask: how much influence should a  corporate donor have on the operations decisions of an entity like national  parks service?
read the full article… posted in bottled water, right to water, tap water, water, water privatization,  water shortage, water utility  |  no comments  | july 20th, 2011 will portland state university be bottled water-free within five years?
click on this image  to see the photo gallery with images by robin madel and jamie leo.
stephen p. martin, a grand canyon park official, developed the ban because 30 percent of park waste is fromplastic bottles.
when asked about the ban, susan stribling, a coca-cola spokeswoman, exposed  a serious lack of understanding when it comes to waste and recycling.
after her situation garnered national media attention, the private company agreed to reduce her bill to a few hundred dollars.
no doubt it will give whole foods naysayers more fodder for calling itwhole paycheck, since bottled water is thousands of times more expensive than tap water.
read our report: hanging on for pure life to find out what nestlé is doing to position itself for the future.
read the full article…posted in bottled water, right to water, tap water, water, water privatization, water shortage, water utility | no comments | net pens, used for factory fish farming, are destructive to the marine environment.
it’s up to us to know that the product within that fancy, useless bottle is actually something that already belongs to us, regardless of what kind of bottle is used to contain it.
i think it  does — it’s meaning is to distract consumers fromhow damaging the  product is to the environment, especially since the remaining 75 percent of  plastic bottles end up in landfills.
the take back the tap curriculum is designed to educate young students about the critical importance of defending water as a public resource and to demonstrate the negative impact of bottled water on the environment and the community.
she offered this ridiculous and preposterous response:read the full article…posted in bottled water, water | no comments | nestlé's sales account managers should be more careful about their potential client list.
sponsored by  all the bad actors in the water industry, from veolia to general electric, the  conference url was www.watermeetsmoney.com.
▀ you're reading smorgasbord - news bites and blogful commentary from food  & water watch.
even the koch brothers’ empire was represented (koch industries helped pollute water with its fossil fuel operations, so why not profit also from cleaning up the mess?)
if you'd like to send us a note about a blog entry or anything else, please use thiscontact form.
the company demanded $1,000 to restore it — hundreds of dollars more than the actual cost to do the work.
in 2008, bottled water sales in the united states experienced a decline — one that lasted for two consecutive years.
even if you change their shape and keep them underwater, they are still destructive to the marine environment.
by darcey rakestraw it’s a common practice for brands to cross-market its products on labels, but i have to say this is a blunder: whole foods suggests on its “365 brand” coffee label that people brew it using its 365 brand bottled water.
starting in august, no one will be able to purchasebottled water on campus or  accessbottled water through official university functions.
the company demanded $1,000 to restore it — hundreds of dollars  more than the actual cost to do the work.
if he had, he would have  figured out pretty quickly what we think aboutbottled water.
the next big thing in industry: water profiteering executive director wenonah hauter got the inside scoop on what the water  industry is up to at the 2011 global water summit in berlin.
be one of the first to know each time a new blog entry and podcast goes live by subscribing to the smorgasbord and snackcast: audio food for thought.
read the full article…posted in bottled water, tap water, water | no comments | executive director wenonah hauter got the inside scoop on what the water industry is up to at the 2011 global water summit in berlin.
(thanks to our office manager ben schumin for the pic.)
nestlé waters’ pure life.
if you'd like to send us a note about a blog entry or anything else, please  use thiscontact form.
but,  while the entire industry reported losses, one bottled water brand stood alone  with increased sales:
by rich bindell talk about an overly optimistic sales strategy.
visitors to the park should be able to see the canyon in its pristine condition, not littered with plastic bottles.
in a special appearance, water flows through the cathedral of st. john the divine’sthe value of water: sustaining a green planet exhibit, which runs until march 25, 2012.
both zetland and muhairwe are big proponents of full-cost pricing and dismissive of the government’s role in providing water.
last week i was in berlin at the global water summit 2011, a meet up for  corporations that want to profit from water as it becomes scarcer.
more »  x food & water watch farm bill: better food starts here federal budget california: stop the corporate water grab fair farm bill welcome!
it’s up to  us to know that the product within that fancy, useless bottle is actually  something that already belongs to us, regardless of what kind of bottle is used  to contain it.
no comments | by rich bindell anyone lucky enough to see the grand canyon should understand why grand canyon national park officials wanted toinstitute a ban on the sale of bottled water in the park.
in a place like a national  park, a preserved location, protected from the usual scars (like garbage) left  by human beings, this seems like a reasonable course of action to take.
the ad declares that the bottle is made with “100 percent  recyclability.”
after several emails around the office discussing this ill-conceived sales  maneuver, i decided to respond… dear bottled water salesperson, read the full article… posted in bottled water, water  |  2 comments  | october 12th, 2011 photo of the day: whole foods suggests brewing coffee with bottled water whole foods recommends using bottled water when you brew their coffee.
stay informed sign up for email to learn how you can protect food and water in your  community.
there’s really no reason to object to any attempt to keep a national park  free from excess waste.
we’re familiar with water’s diverse natural expressions from fog, rain, streams and rivers to oceans, lagoons, groundwater and springs.
the take back the tap curriculum is designed to educate young students about  the critical importance of defending water as a public resource and to  demonstrate the negative impact of bottled water on the environment and the  community.
read the full article…posted in bottled water, consumers, justice, privatization, right to water, tap water, water, water privatization, water shortage, water utility |
click on this image to see the photo gallery with images by robin madel and jamie leo.
she offered  this ridiculous and preposterous response:read the full article… posted in bottled water, water  |  no comments   | october 19th, 2011 nestle wants to sell us bottled water?
in a place like a national park, a preserved location, protected from the usual scars (like garbage) left by human beings, this seems like a reasonable course of action to take.
seeing an ad with a vibrant green plant blooming into a plastic bottle from the heart of its lovely pedals is enough to convince many consumers that a product is eco-friendly, but it’s merely a distraction.
even though pacific university is a smaller school than, let’s say, portland state university (psu), this is still a great win for water advocates across the country.
but what allowed this brand to shine in an otherwise challenging marketplace for bottled water?
but, if only 25 percent of plastic bottles actually reach  the recycling bin, does 100 percent recyclability have much meaning?