if poisoned with such a large amount, he would receive whole-body daily exposures of 160 cgy.
i will always be there with the hp japan irregulars.
http://youtu.be/4yetlcp8sie...that one didnt work...
the canadian press - sun, 25 sep, 2011 ontario's rapid expansion in wind power projects has provoked a backlash from rural residents living near industrial wind turbines who say their property values are plummeting and they are unable to sell their homes, a cbc news investigation has found.
strontium 90 may cause leukemia.
knowing the french navy has warheads on its nuke subs and carrier at the chateau gives me, comment tu dis, peaux du poulet.
oh, "sorry" i'm so sorry to hear that sj.
extending the mataphor it seems most of the passengers on board our flight fit this description also.
it would be highly appreciated, because i was surprised.
ge also owns 80 percent of nbc universal.
despite this, some 27,700 tons of sludge --- 51 percent of the total --- remains in storage at water treatment plants.
that would be (1,525,000 μsv), close to severe radiation poisoning.
or to look at it another way!
about 18,000 households with 50,000 people in hawaii rely on rainwater as their sole source of drinking water.
off topic..just wanted to share a piece of the no nukes concert....
i want to hire their tax guys.
hey you crazy lovable zero hedge guys check this out http://enenews.com/book-govt-considering-plan-evacuate-all-90000-citizens-living-tokyo-knew-fuel-melted-early-global-hawk-data/comment-page-1#comment-120298 the truth about maher!
two of my adult friends have had their thyroids removed in the past 120 days!
http://youtu.be/e6gko_qzzdm....
today marks the one month anniversary of their stop loss program.
the fellow who died in the fukushima builing, and was found months later, is the only 'direct' casualty from this horror.
“why did the quake shorten the day?
i'm so proud of them!
this news is not covered by any media so now we are trying to figure out more details.
i almost missed previous post.
i gave my first long-coat chihuahua i bred to a good friend 10 years ago.
and the earth sped up its rotation, shortening the day 1.6 microseconds.
alpha particle radiation (wikipedia) when alpha particle emitting isotopes are ingested, they are far more dangerous than their half-life or decay rate would suggest, due to the high relative biological effectiveness of alpha radiation to cause biological damage, after alpha-emitting radioisotopes enter living cells.
wake up every morning to lies dont we arc?
another good one in common use in aviation describes the oblivious state of flight crew just prior to an avoidable crash... 'fat, dumb and happy'.
maybe that's an inspiration for you?
(reuters) - jx nippon oil & energy corp, japan's top refiner, said on saturday the fire at sendai refinery appears to have originated from a land oil product shipping facility, not from an lpg tank as earlier thought, following a strong quake that hit northeastern japan on friday.
nonetheless death would be expected from the poisoning within two or three months.
by the way, the meter i use for gauging the effectiveness of my reverse osmosis system shows that baltimore tap water is at 74 parts per million.
the actual toxic effect of this exposure would be lower than what the table below indicates, because radiation received over a period of time is somewhat less harmful than a dose received all at once.
and you can make a difference....
the fact that he became ill so quickly indicates he was poisoned with many times the lethal dose of po-210.
so physically i'm fit, though the knowledge of what might happen in the middle of the night if.... is quite a burden mentally.
acute poisoning is rare.
revolutionaries are a) less prone to brainwashing, b) are able to empower others, c) maintain an alter-ego or outsider mindset in all circumstances, at all times and with all individuals.
this would account for his falling ill apparently within hours of exposure.
one is that enormous amounts of this isotope were released so that, even though a large amount of half life cycles took place, there was still a significant amount remaining by the time it reached canada.
reporting of this, i think, really discredits the nuclear industry, the governments, the major news media.
rift 80 miles off the eastern coast of japan: the restless earth – how japan’s earthquake brought us closer…literally (part one) http://quixoteconsulting.com/blog/2011/03/16/the-restless-earth-how-japans-earthquake-brought-us-closer-literally-part-one/ “under our feet is a restless, restless earth.
this should be expected, a lot more of it should be expected.
all from japan i bet biden is heading to japan aug 23 http://mdn.mainichi.jp/mdnnews/news/20110816p2g00m0dm002000c.html clinton as we saw yesterday is a traitor http://tinyurl.com/3kqrkgt did you see this beautiful solar powered boat?
group wants radiation tests done in canada — health canada calls 300 times background levels of iodine-131 “minute” : canadian network for nulclear monitoring we are initiating a collaborative radiation awareness, monitoring and research initiative across canada.
dimethyl telluride is volatile and produces the garlic-like smell.
nobody dies 'directly' from a nuclear explosion unless they are onsite.
digressing a bit…the strange car crash death of oklahoma nuclear industry worker karen silkwood in 1974 (great 1983 movie with meryl streep) led to the industry losing the wrongful death $10 million civil lawsuit at the supreme court level and paying out over $1 million to her family before a retrial.
http://sankei.jp.msn.com/life/news/110816/bdy11081622130002-n1.htm "it's back!"
a whole new ball game!
it's likely tellurium or strontium, both of which are very dangerous.
best he doesnt know!...we dont want to give baby nightmares do we?
peace bobby1, interesting table.
if litvinenko were poisoned with, say, 40 millicuries (ten lethal doses) then severe exposure on the order of 400 cgy would occur to the gi system.
how about 'the rapid accumulation of the lack of altitude'.
come on guys, be realistic.
there was a 'small' leak of radioactive water into the lake the day after fukushima.
she will go first, since she has had cancer, and has compromised lungs.
sp great post, sickputer, except that i do not believe that mass media will report on it at all.
heres a link to the jet stream direction...
heros every single one of them.
i believe sean tomkins should be tested for radioactive substances... but also that he rest in peace and not be disturbed.... catch 22.
once the rain deposits the isotopes, their readings should decrease by half every 53 minutes.
we in north america are probably surrounded by powers plants, etc., that are silently spewing stuff without our knowing it.
“the 9.0 magnitude quake (the fourth-largest recorded since 1900) was caused when the pacific tectonic plate dove under the north american plate, which shifted eastern japan towards north america by about 13 feet.
not to mention farm soils.
or are you trying to say that this was from reactor three criticality explosion?
you are definitely on to a core point of view for the revolutionaries out here.
earthquake theory debunked http://www.agoracosmopolitan.com/news/intrnational/2011/08/15/584.html here's an example of damage caused by the earthquake, not the tsunami.
here is leuren moret's latest interview with alfred webre (made available a couple days ago) - http://www.youtube.com/user/exopoliticstv#p/u/0/nb49kkkkyps leuren moret: japan, u.s., canadian governments complicit in covering up fukushima radiation written version of this information available here: http://www.examiner.com/exopolitics-in-seattle/leuren-moret-japan-u-s-canadian-governments-complicit-radiation-cover-up posted to hp bleep.
if a few more people die of cancer well fine.
“the earthquake triggers several fires, among them a massive blaze at the oil refinery in ichihara city in chiba prefecture near tokyo.”
but heavier beta emmitters landing as far as the usa....not good!
http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-1365318/japan-earthquake-tsunami-the-moment-mother-nature-engulfed-nation.html from another thread: radioactive.eu.com august 16, 2011 at 4:37 pm cracks found in seabed off sanriku coast – video http://newsonjapan.com/html/newsdesk/article/91481.php http://enenews.com/unprecedented-spike-1501-atoms-of-radioactive-sulfur-per-meter%c2%b3-was-detected-in-california-air/comment-page-1#comment-119498 while the thread does get off topic it does remain informative.
thanks again whoopie for the heads up on this event.
i toured it as a field trip in grade school forty odd years ago.
i'll post that story/link at hp.
don't most of the things coming from fuk have longer half-lives than that (they must, to come across from japan).
aussi, il y a an site sous la mer, pres de normandie, avec beaucoup de boites plein avec les choses radioactif.
bump from: june 3, 2011 at 2:40 am · the northern hemisphere jet stream is rushing toxic deadly particles to hawaii, canada, the continental americas, and re-circling constantly the entire globe.
it was a sudden death,which is very shocking for the surroundings.
been doing that for decades.
haven't lived in ontario for over ten years didn't know about 9 mile point.
just see http://predictingquakes.blogspot.com/ for my update for march 11 2011 and how i e mailed genpatsu shinsai genpatsu shinsai - after kashiwasaki kariwa i was warning the world about the coming catastrophe because of the damned surges cumulative effects of meeting water needs with dams.
you think if pickering makes a radio-active fart toronto will be evacuated?
‘s founder died all of a sudden as well.
this delay is partly due to the time is takes to accumulate dangerous internal exposures, and partly due to the time delay of 1-2 weeks after dangerous exposure before serious illness becomes evident.
most of the canadian reactors are in ontario for some reason.
wouldn't it explain these readings?
all six reactors were designed by general electric.
i never knew that about the thyroid either.
the reactors for units 1, 2, and 6 were supplied by general electric, those for units 3 and 5 by toshiba, and unit 4 by hitachi.
@bobby1 interesting!
not so in southern ontario.
my advice…use an umbrella in the rain.
maybe canadians should start speaking out too.
one does what one can.
excessive levels of radioactive cesium found 100 km from plant / 186.000 bq/kg: "excessive levels of radioactive cesium were found in sludge in a ditch at a district court branch in fukushima prefecture, about 100 kilometers west of the crippled fukushima daiichi nuclear power plant, the court said tuesday.
it was the geologic time scale events happening instantaneously every sec of every year!
arclight: thanks also for the link re: southeastern pa.
ingested alpha emitter radioisotopes (such as transuranics or actinides) are an average of about 20 times more dangerous, and in some experiments up to 1000 times more dangerous, than an equivalent activity of beta emitting or gamma emitting radioisotopes.
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/technetium-99m "molybdenum-99 is produced commercially by intense neutron-bombardment of a highly purified uranium-235 target, followed rapidly by extraction.[3] it is used as a parent radioisotope in technetium-99m generators to produce the even shorter-lived daughter isotope technetium-99m, which is used in many medical procedures.
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/social/atoms4peace1/nuclear-regulatory-commission_n_923098_103109283.html whoopie, i love the first two comments given to that.
most of this is accumulated in the first 30 days, but significant amounts occur of the next several weeks following.
the 2004 sumatra quake knocked a whopping 6.8 micro-seconds off the day.
additionally,an npo “save fukushima children in toyama”
folks who are taking rad readings on their own can post their results here https://pachube.com/ toronto is near the pickering nuclear plant, which spilled radioactive water into lake ontario on march 12.
he fell off during the training game.
pickering has been dumping radio-active water in lake ontario for years.
(a4p) he hates that i post every morning
dear ram: the first article above is brilliant in one primary respect to my eyes in that it is quite true that "specialization" is an ultimate cast system, along with the destruction of high-context cultural norms, such as extended family and village or community mindedness.
radioactivity in rain 20 000cpm / sq. meter toronto canada, electrosyl, august 14, 2011: the most disturbing thing was when he blocked the radiation with his hand.
last week,ex professional soccer player matsuda died of cardiac infarct too.
“after the country's 1995 earthquake, japan placed high-tech sensors around the country to observe even the slightest movements, which is why scientists are able to calculate the quake's impact down to the inch.
we've always said it helps when the japanese speak out.
where still borns are becoming the norm.
we all "expected" the next meltdown to happen after chernobyl.
the majority of mo-99 produced for tc-99m medical use comes from fission of heu (highly enriched uranium) from only five reactors around the world: nru, canada; br2, belgium; safari-1, south africa; hfr (petten), the netherlands; and the osiris reactor in saclay, france.[1][2] production from leu (low-enriched uranium) is possible, and is produced at the new opal reactor, australia, as well as other sites.
the market is in ontario.
http://enformable.com/2011/08/planetsolars-turanor-the-world%e2%80%99s-largest-solar-powered-boat-docks-in-hong-kong/ heads up!!!
they wont remain lies for long on enenews
she was still only 32 years old.
does anyone smell government coverup?
the quake also shifted the earth's axis by 6.5 inches, shortened the day by 1.6 microseconds, and sank japan downward by about two feet.
we get our drinking water from the lake.
the club was able several times over the years to prove evidence of radioactive releases the french had "forgotten" to mention.
i am still not seeing why the man in canada would find that it is hotter immediately after the rain, but then "decays away" within about 30 minutes, unless it is not actually "decaying away," but simply evaporating back into the air or getting absorbed into the soil (or otherwise dispersing away from the spot where the rain had initially landed).
yep whoopie, they are quite cool indeed!!
my guess is that high readings in video are a combination of fuki and local sources.
the earth’s axis shifted.
the isotope in the sludge, sampled from a ditch at the fukushima district court's aizuwakamatsu branch, measured about 186,000 becquerels per kilogram, the court said, adding it plans to remove the sludge after consulting with local governments.
i was not that surprised.
i'm thrilled to death that enenews is getting the recognition it deserves finally!
when it went into service in 1988, concerned citizens founded a club and set up measuring devices to take their own readings 24/7 ever since.
i see what your trying to get at here...if it evaporates it should leave most of the particles behind, however it seems to me where the water went he found hot spots and the ground saturation must have taken the isotopes into the earth/mud...maybe these beta/alpha particles are water soluable!
in monthly newsletters.
the restless earth – how japan’s earthquake brought us closer…literally (part one) http://quixoteconsulting.com/blog/2011/03/16/the-restless-earth-how-japans-earthquake-brought-us-closer-literally-part-one/ “under our feet is a restless, restless earth.
lack of a parachute does not affect happy people.
maybe from fukushima but lots of old reactors operating and they don't want to disrupt their precious economy.
fire, magma, and wandering tectonic plates.
whats up with atoms for peace then....sounds like one of his strategies is to "run home to mummy" , so to speak!
i've been living in this area for 8 years now, and honestly i'm hesitating to look out for an apartment to buy because of that evil nuke around the corner.
that should awaken the cheerleaders.
see http://justiceinorout.blogspot.com/ i was glued to the hotspot web fire mapper with the hotspots surging suddenly- they were due to the hydrogenerators in synchronism surging the water levels in the dams in keeping with the electricity demand peaking.
when i click on you link it does not lead to your post.
the whole area from pickering to hamilton is the second biggest industrial area in north america.
it felt good to be around so many like minded people.....
had to respond here… some nice photos of group meeting at bart hq here!
http://nuclearweaponarchive.org/news/poloniumpoison.html i also read that women might have a bigger heart attack response than men!
now you have to take into account it looks like the particle is an alpha emitter.
the cbc has documented scores of families who've discovered their property values are not only going downward, but also some who are unable to sell and have even abandoned their homes because of concerns nearby turbines are affecting their health.
if the radiation decays so fast what is it?
“paid areas of bart stations are reserved for ticketed passengers who are boarding, exiting or waiting for bart cars and trains, or for authorized bart personnel.
oh and for any new readers out there, this link is a must..
polonium is excreted fairly quickly, its effective half-life in the body is about 30 days (mostly due to excretion, but also due to radioactive decay).
http://www.floridatoday.com/article/20110815/news01/108150307/1006/rss01/state-limits-beach-water-sampling
more of the earth’s mass shifted to the center – japan is now about two feet closer to the earth’s core.
rainwater and cow milk in hawaii is contaminated.
http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/03/12/refinery-operations-jx-fire-idustkg00706520110312 the sendai earthquake of march 11, 2011: what does it mean to us?
i at least hope that this is the case.
it did not make the headline news.
of all the lies this one tops the cake.
japan earthquake (日本地震) live video : oil refinery catches fire http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rzcdxit3fmy “14 industrial complexes on fire due to the earthquake (before the tsunami)” (about 1.46 on tape).
that is where my family lives.
suffice it to say, i don’t think you can keep your job at ge if you say discouraging words about nuclear energy.
so...every death now is going to be related to fukushima?
» rain near toronto measures 20,000 cpm per square meter (video)
naturally found tellurium consists of eight isotopes (listed in the table to the right); three of them are observed to be radioactive.
75 percent of it contains less than 8,000 becquerels per kilogram of radioactive cesium, the government-set limit for disposal by burial.
try again purdy please?
hi ir, it's still a diferent thing whether to expect something or to see it actually confirmed....
b and b, how healthy are you and your friends?
i live 30 miles from the 4 reactor nuke plant cattenom in france (which is situated right at the german border, so the westerly winds will carry the nasties over to us).
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=egc_k1n7j60 sad but pretty touching.
“polonium, when absorbed orally, tends to distribute widely through the tissues of the body, approximating whole body radiation exposure.
wonder what he made of chernobyl heart then??
a contaminated instrument is useless.
reactors in ontario because it is highly industrialized.
http://www.pej.org/html/modules.php?op=modload&name=news&file=article&sid=8926&mode=thread&order=0&thold=0 biggest misinformation story of the day: #fukushima children cleared of cancer.
peace atoms is showing a side of himself we've never seen.
also, doesn't strontium have a half-life of 29 years (i don't know what tellurium has).
because of its short half-life and rapid decay, a small quantity of polonium-210 is intensely active.
currently, workers at the plant are being evacuated from the refinery, and there was no work under way to extinguish the fire, a company spokesman said.
it emits soft beta particles (electrons) in this process, but no gamma rays (photons).
i'll post to hp posted by mochizuki on august 14th, 2011 the person,who was trying to save animals in 20 km died of acute leukemia.
pickering and darlington are two reactors within an hours drive of toronto.
"the accumulation of the lack of altitude" hehe you have to love some of the things people do with the english language.
the massive 8.9 magnitude earthquake in japan on march 11, 2011 reminded us of that.
i would like to know too.
it would have to be an insane amount of plutonium to generate that reading.
you can download the latest isotope readings from takasaki here: http://www.cpdnp.jp/pdf/110816takasaki_report_aug12.pdf look at the right side of the table, te-129 and te-129m. these are isotopes of tellurium, and fuku has been emitting these isotopes from the beginning, and still is.
http://www.youtube.com/results?search_query=shoreline+m.u.s.e.&aq=f @taco see your point!
contains the busiest highway in north america (401).
this is a long abandoned, but to our peril, backbone of revolution against the greedy.
http://motlc.wiesenthal.com/site/pp.asp?c=gvkvlcmviug&b=394901
goes for eastern parts of usa that report high radiation.
while husband was in fukushima,he got a phone call to tell his wife died suddenly.
actual video footage of people's symptoms, for the sake of the cause of warning the world about nuclear plants, is as devastating to the liars as it gets.
i am going to look at obituary notices to see if younger people start being mentioned in larger numbers.
article just posted saying 38 with food poisoning.
http://ca.news.yahoo.com/ontario-wind-power-bringing-down-property-values-195652724.html ex-skf recent posts (external):ex-skf recent posts (external): 2012 enenews.com llc - all rights reserved
i want to see it so bad!!
it's all going into the drinking water.
to give a standing ovation to the lady from green japan was the highlight of my summer.....
host reveals msnbc staff told him to stop saying people should  not believe the government about fukushima and should evacuate (video)
state to stop testing water at patrick air force base beach patrick only brevard beach to be dropped, effective july 5 to save more than $500,000 a year, florida health officials will stop weekly tests for bacteria at 58 beaches statewide, including patrick air force base.
"when dissolved in water, radionuclides are colorless, odorless, and tasteless, and typically cannot be detected by our senses, unlike many other contaminants that may cause an undesirable color, odor, or taste.
when it happened on 3/11, we were still surpised, weren't we?
"it's because it's a federal beach ...
it would be probaly be better if you did not inform this 11 year old what adults and other children are discussing!
the exposure rises eventually to 700 cgy after a few months.
or some other detonation?
the long-lived things from fuk presumably wouldn't suddenly decay away within thirty minutes of falling as rain (or am i not understanding something?)
" http://www3.nhk.or.jp/daily/english/16_21.html is it about 120 cpm when you start to worry?
“the quake caused a rift 15 miles below the sea floor that stretched 186 miles long and 93 miles wide, according to the ap.
i was puzzled by the fact that he said it decayed away very quickly (he seemed to say 30 or 40 minutes).
the particle decays to 0 radioactivity after about 40 min (according to the person who took the video).
as the nuclear industry says, no one has died directly from the known 99 plus major nuclear accidents in history.
iodine has half life of 8 days?
by the way, look at the entry in the pdf for 3/16-3/17.
we intend to network with interested organizations and individuals concerned with public health, the environment, renewable energies and sustainable agriculture and food production. ...
the fault dear friends lies not in our stars and planets but in the cumulative effects of modern civilisation's dams,nukesfed by demands!
precautions tellurium and tellurium compounds should be considered to be mildly toxic and need to be handled with care.
but if that is true i guess we are looking at a local source not fuki.
but i say that jumping out of an airplane without a parachute does not kill you directly either.
on august 4, the georgia straight ran an article on “fukushima fallout”, reporting, among other concerns, that air radiation measurements in several canadian cities exceeded legislated maximum concentrations after the fukushima disaster; that canadian radionuclide monitoring and reporting is lacking transparency and consistency; and that there are many concerned health professionals, including those interviewed in the article .
"josef goebbels has worn down the nerves of the enemy: he played the register of the propaganda organ.
this person has been working in 20km area of fukushima to save the starving animals left.
hi milk and cheese, i'm totally healthy (as far as i know, that is).
perhaps that is the best way after all.
ontario wind power bringing down property values cbc – mon, 3 oct, 2011 related content a proposed wind farm in saint-cyprien-de-napierville is angering some residents.
he lives up here in butte county calif.
couldn't have stated it better myself bb.
we get our water from lake ontario, which was rained on.
the other one was that a dog died of acute thyroid disorder.
it was the most recorded there in a single day since the ... http://www.nydailynews.com/ny_local/2011/08/14/2011-08-14_rain_snarls_traffic_floods_subways_in_new_york_city.html
it is important that people have the courage to be generalists, while also cultivating whatever specialized skills they may have.
he, jo jo died saturday of thyroid cancer.
we can post what we find.
thats just on the canadian side of the lake.
published: august 16th, 2011 at 7:44 am et by enenews radioactivity in rain 20 000cpm / sq. meter toronto canada, electrosyl,  august 14, 2011: published: august 16th, 2011 at 7:44 am et by enenews related posts oklahoma city rain at 1.62 microsieverts per hour — “dangerous  radiation background” (video)
the collusion between governments and nuclear goes way back.
the consequent illnesses from nuclear exposure take years to show, although i do not think i will have to wait that long.
ufc trainer sean tomkins dies at age 37.
natural radioactivity in drinking water and its effect on human health recently have become a major environmental concern.
recent studies have shown that activities of some radionuclides in the ground water of southeastern pennsylvania are elevated enough to pose potential health problems." http://pa.water.usgs.gov/reports/fs012-00.html let's say he is observing iodine 134 with a half life of 53 minutes.
seeing it makes it a whole new ballgame.
they routinely dispose of low level radio-active water into lake.
beautiful city, people are wonderful.
japan’s earthquake shifted balance of the planet http://www.amerisurv.com/content/view/8470/
they are also posting that many young people appear to be dying of strokes and cardiac arrest.
this is not covered by any media either,so now we are trying to figure out more details.
we need more people around our plants dont ya think?
if anyone in japan is reading this site, here is something that is needed: more reports of people with radiation sickness.
but it happens to be my reading of the real time data which the effect of the sun etc cannot explain- frequent man made natural disaster by the cumulative effects of modern civilisation's consumptive greedy profiteering life style.
"there are 30 known isotopes of tellurium with atomic masses that range from 108 to 137.
dear ramaswami, could you then please ring the alarm bell here next time??
if it does worsen to that point… there won’t be a lot of positive spin the governments of japan and america can muster for the new evacuation measures.
eastern japan shifted 13 feet closer to the u.s.
"this is overwhelmingly the best-recorded great earthquake ever," lucy jones, chief scientist for the multi-hazards project at the u.s. geological survey, told the los angeles times.”
as japan's eastern coastline sunk, the tsunami's waves rolled in.
i was indoors, with a friend, during the storm (which i barely noticed).
all of these characteristics ensure that the technetium-99 produced from technetium-99m produces very little extra radiation burden on the body.
the mass media will be drawn back into the story by forces beyond their control.
thus 4 millicuries (a minimal lethal dose for 80 kg person) is 0.89 micrograms, an almost invisible speck of matter.
off the deep end maybe..w/the news of nuclear layoffs?
in the hour or two that elapses during gastrointestinal uptake of the poison, the gi system (which is about 3% of body mass) receives disproportionate radiation exposure, amounting to perhaps a few days worth of whole body exposure.
technically you would eventually accumulate the same 'lack of altitude' even with the parachute deployed, so we should factor time into the equation...
i read it decays quickly and is present in the rain.
you will know it is really bad in japan when america evacuates the us troops stationed in southern japan.
its "specific activity" is 4490 curies/g (166 tbq/g).
the isotope ratios for that day demonstrate that a nuclear explosion occurred, especially the large amount of tc-99m.
this outsider (comparison of differences is the mother of all understanding) perspective can be cultivated to the destruction of mass brainwashing, conditioning (institutional, cultural or despotically intentional or not) by working hard to understand everything...be a generalist!!!
makes it much more real and personal.
the cat has started wheezing again.
these are the sheets of the readings the club shows on its website: http://www.maus-trier.de/seiten/m_2011.htm#jahresubersicht
je voudrais ecouter ton opinion a peu pres areva.
due to its short half-life, technetium-99m for nuclear medicine purposes is usually extracted from technetium-99m generators which contain molybdenum-99 (mo-99, half-life 2.75 days), which is the usual parent nuclide for this isotope.
off the top of my head i think the great lakes has twenty or so nuclear power plants on its shores.
something is going on and it isn't good at all.
high levels of radiation in the toronto area does not mean it came from fukushima.
#criminals 8 minutes ago that "cleared" story is all over tweets.
" http://schools-wikipedia.org/wp/t/tellurium.htm thanks for the info.
patrick was the only site to be dropped -- effective july 5 -- of nine beach sites in brevard county that undergo weekly testing for bacteria.
he was sent to the hospital but he was already cardio-respiratory arrest.
sorry for the grammar, i speak better than i write.
alfred frauenfeld, nazi deputy propaganda minister.”
slowly and inexorably the tragic events of march 11, 2011 (aka 311) and the aftermath may become the top story of the 21st century…or perhaps of the entire era of humankind.
but i don't think that would cause radio-active rain water.
flapdoodle, exactly!
the dam forces are comparable to the tectonic forces!
he was still 34 years old.
20,000 cpm at one location as a hot spot does not rule out even hotter spots.
pretty explosive piece in a canadian newspaper about jim stone: fukushima's nuclear catastrophe:
i guess there are others i am not aware of.
32 year old woman's sudden death from leukemia in fukushima is not being reported ...
this results in a maximum total exposure equal to about 43 times the first day exposure.
when the body metabolizes tellurium in any oxidation state, the tellurium gets converted into dimethyl telluride.
ge boasts they made umpteen billion dollars last year, but paid zero dollars in american taxes.
but i'm a vegetarian since age 13 (i'm 36 now) and never started smoking.
in may, when i got the system, it was in the mid-40's.
the decay of the polonium would deliver an accumulating exposure of 16 cgy a day initially.
i read about it thirty years ago.
or maybe it is really unusual and a consequence of other radioisotope fallouts.
don’t rely on mass media to help you stay informed.
i did some math on the level of radiation.
back to original article.
so that they soon thought they were hearing the shrieks of the last trumpet."
his last word was “wait..”
" http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/isotopes_of_molybdenum intense neutron bombardment of u-235 results from a nuclear detonation.
two, these are daughter isotopes of a parent isotope with a longer half life.
there are two possibilities if this is from fukushima.
in the case of absorbing a minimal lethal dose no initial illness would result.
pause for a moment – our day with it’s predictable measurements of seconds, minutes and hours – something that we regard as absolutely stable is now shorter.”
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/nuclear_and_radiation_accidents
if the radioactive releases are not stopped by late september i think we will see the us troops re-deployed.
i think you can see quite clearly the bigger cesium releases every once a week (those must be the massive ventings we saw on the cam), becoming more rare and with lower readings over time.
as mentioned by many general electric media-related holdings include television networks nbc and telemundo, universal pictures, focus features, 26 television stations in the united states and cable networks msnbc, bravo and the sci fi channel.
archives « unprecedented spike: 1501  atoms of radioactive sulfur per meter³ was detected in california air censored?
went to moderation but it'll show.
here is a video from 3 months ago when st16500 "invaded" fukushima to help the animals.
some french folks i know from work are totally clueless and are being intentionally misinformed by the nuke comp.
and they are still at it.
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=czyt6bjfbro how the quake shifted japan http://photoblog.msnbc.msn.com/_news/2011/03/12/6256280-how-the-quake-shifted-japan japan's network of 1,200 gps monitoring stations, operated by the geographical survey institute, shows a maximum springing-out effect of 13 feet (4 meters), with an average displacement of about 8 feet (2.5 meters) along a stretch measuring more than 300 miles (500 kilometers).
i believe you need to click on your post's date and then copy/paste that link if you want people on enenews to read the thread i just returned from brest, france.
more thought required here!
http://changeagents2011.wordpress.com/home/ since april, we have contacted local and national media, environmental and health organizations, responsible government agencies and individuals with concerns over the lack of transparent and comprehensive radionuclide monitoring and reporting in canada.
august 7, 2011 crippled nuke plant not prepared for heavy rain, wind — tepco: we  apologize for lack of significant measures may 28, 2011 “yellow rain” around tokyo caused by pollen officials say  – rain may have contained radioactivity march 24, 2011 report: 400,000,000,000 neutrons released per square meter surface of  spent fuel pools between march 13-20 august 15, 2011 fukushima risks chernobyl ‘dead zone’ — over 5,000,000  becquerels per square meter of cesium-137 outside 20 km zone may 30, 2011 august 16th, 2011 | tags: canada, highest yet, rain, toronto canada |  category:canada, rain, video « unprecedented spike: 1501 atoms of  radioactive sulfur per meter³ was detected in california air
atoms4peace just left a "dear hp" letter calling us out!
stay inside (a lot for now) and replace air filters.
cesium 134 and 137 may cause acute cardiac infarct.
in canada on the east coast.
you have no idea of the guy's health history, yet you jump to the conclusion that it is related.
by 9 p.m., 7.7 inches of rain had fallen at kennedy airport.
i dare not to assert it has something to do with radiation,but something might have begun.
i think after fuki ordinary people started to measure radiation and when they find high levels they blame it on fuki but could be a local source.
people think canada is some sort of untouched wilderness.
see the witchcraft theory of the vested interest science groupist cult narration in ecrr 2003 pp 13 ff authored by chris busby et al.
humans exposed to as little as 0.01 mg/m3 or less in air develop "tellurium breath", which has a garlic-like odour.
anyway, one thing is for sure, we are running the most significant experiment ever of the consequences of radioactive fallout.
in fact, 3 workers have already been irradiated there this year alone.
that is 200 μsv per min.
the instruments are set up on private properties near the plant.
last year's massive 8.8 magnitude earthquake in chile also shortened the day, but by an even smaller fraction of a second.
this scenario contrasts strikingly with the reported symptoms of litvinenko, who fell ill the day he was poisoned, was seriously ill on day 11 later, in critical condition on day 20, and was dead on day 23.
yes, the guy with the geiger counter did not use a control.
new york breaks city's rainfall record with nearly eight inches soaking city new york broke an all-time record for a one-day rainfall sunday as up to 8 inches of water soaked the city, snarling trains and flooding roadways.
" http://english.kyodonews.jp/news/2011/08/109260.html radioactive sludge piling up "contaminated sludge from sewage facilities now totals more than 54,400 tons.
http://youtu.be/s5ykhy8ttcg...whoopie if this does not work...you can find it on you tube...shoreline m.u.s.e.
(arc: does that include ingestion?)
i asked "why does he not protect his device with a plastic bag?"
today,i received two other news too.
it would be tantamount to bullying!
thanks for all the explanations.
https://webapps.utsc.utoronto.ca/ose/uploads/japan.pdf the following article includes pictures of earthquake damage in addition to damage by the tsunami.
japan was today plunged into chaos after a cataclysmic earthquake sent merciless tsunami waves rushing through its helpless streets.
that's not practical, nor is it logical.
geiger readings can go as high as 1 to 2microsievert/hour from what i heard or read.
i suppose it was just as well.
with sober calculation, he designed the ritual rallies of the nazis--the repeated oaths, the arm raising, the songs.”
i'll tell them they're reported about in us media lol it showed bb!
and so it begins... ty darth.
the garlic odour that is associated with human intake of tellurium compounds is caused from the tellurium being metabolized by the body.
just like many japanese workers from fukushima, and also many healthy who worked in chernobyl.
the epa has also stopped monitoring for radiation.
that is around 1525 μsv from the particle during its life, which is equal to a spinal x-ray.
even polonium that was not absorbed, but passed through the gi tract and was excreted would expose the radiation-sensitive gi lining.
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2011/08/12/nuclear-regulatory-commission_n_923098.html#comments @whoopie -
in addition, 7 storage facilities in 4 prefectures have had to set up "no entry zones" where radiation levels have gotten too high.
i wouldn't eat a fish from lake ontario....
i'm also not preparing to live to a ripe old age.
the resulting gastrointestinal syndrome, which is due to the destruction of the gi lining with exposures of about 700 cgy, would account for the severe illness that led to his death in scarcely more than three weeks.
so what do i think is going to happen in the coming weeks?
and if sean tomkins's body is full of radiation, and if people found this out with another autopsy...
the areas closest to the epicenter of the quake jumped a full 13 feet closer to the united states, geophysicist ross stein at the united states geological survey told the new york times.
and this is what im really trying to describe here “every form of physical stimulation and manipulation was used to mold the nazi party, and later all of germany into total compliance with nazi policy.”
we all must now be generalists to the best of our abilities.
thanks to all posters for informative and entertaining read!
what if it was as high as 1000x as dangerous?
how are things in hawaii?
but big pharmas got that one all figured out!
you sure your on the right thread mark????lol??
this is not going to be good.
no person shall conduct or participate in assemblies or demonstrations or engage in other expressive activities in the paid areas of bart stations, including bart cars and trains and bart station platforms.”
it is the accumulation of the lack of altitude that does.
the resulting technetium-99 then decays to stable ruthenium-99 with a half-life of 211,000 years.
thank heavens blogosphere is there!
one was that a 4 years old cat died of acute leukemia in tokyo.
sure makes northwest oregon look good!
to protect the instrument.
i am so impressed by these people bb.
the government and the wind energy industry have long maintained turbines have no adverse effects on property values, health or the environment.
there is a lot that must and can be done to change the status quo.
canadian newspaper tries to get soil tested for radiation — private companies, gov’t agencies, and universities all refused to get involved june 21st, 2011 at 02:49 pm http://enenews.com/canadian-newspaper-soil-tested-radiation-private-companies-govt-agencies-universities-all-refused-involved cant think why these two links look nice together........................?
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2011/08/12/nuclear-regulatory-commission_n_923098.html#comments thanks whoopie, for your neverending efforts to spread the news over at hp.
host reveals msnbc staff told him to stop saying  people should not believe the government about fukushima and should evacuate  (video)
128te has the longest known half-life, 2.2×1024 years, among all radioactive isotopes.
its so new and so against vested interest science that none of the msm sci jourals would accept... its like the specialist self interested circle that is neglecting/disregarding the interpretation of the data on the ground in favour of a decrepit theory put forward by icrp and iaea to keep up the nuke industry!
people are surprised...why exactly?
seemingly,this person has been working in 20km area of fukushima to save the starving animals left.
scratches head, again!
the temperature was 24.5c.
serious illness would not be expected for a month or more.
but they must be able to create it within the normal processes of the reactor, as they use the daughter product for medical use?
too bad it kills your immune system eventually-
local governments say some burial projects have been rejected by residents near proposed sites.
that means it is alpha or beta radiation.
this npo was founded by a couple in toyama,they came and back between fukushima and toyama for countless times.
anyone know where they stow the parachutes?
no visible effect would be expected for about a week, with mild symptoms developing over the next week.
so on the avaerage that 1525μsv will cause about 20x the damage as normal radiation (30,480μsv), which according to the chart is equal to smoking a pack a day for a year.
dealing with a4p does not exactly make it more convenient...
the majority of people will literally never know what hit them.
what seems static is a sea of endless change, with us just perched on the very thinnest small top layer looking out into the universe.
http://radiationnetwork.com/ absolute fucking pandemonium.
“the "alert level" for the national radiation map is 100 cpm, so if you see any monitoring stations with cpm value above 100, further indicated by an alert symbol over those stations, it probably means that some radioactive source above and beyond background radiation is responsible.”
we know things have actually worsened in the past 9 weeks...
http://squall.sfsu.edu/gif/jetstream_init_00.gif thank you arclight.
pickering is effectively a suburb of t.o.
activation of mo-98 is another, currently smaller, route of production.[3] demand for medical use of mo-99 to make tc-99m began to overtake a dwindling supply, in the late 2000s.
can't be proven caused by nuclear industry, right?
does this come from the burning of contaminated materials?...hope they took a sample of the rain and forwarded it to arnie and co!
this makes me wonder whether at least some of what he is finding are more short-lived isotopes from more local sources (maybe on top of the longer-live fuk stuff).
and that does not even include the 2053 nuclear explosions from testing since 1945 http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=llcf7vpanry
“josef goebbels, hitler's minister of propaganda, possessed a diabolical flair for orchestrating mass fervor and ecstasy.
tellurium is not reported to be carcinogenic.
so horrific it's come to this but since the media is not reporting anything, we must.
by the time of his death his total exposure might have reached a few thousand cgy, levels that would injur his cardiovascular system directly and might be related to litvinenko's heart attack shortly before his death.”
ditto for the thousands of scientists who rely on government grants to stay afloat.
80 miles off the eastern coast of japan, six miles below the surface on the ocean floor, a rift opened up hundreds of miles wide, causing huge portions of the earth’s crust to tumble inside.
the radiation is not caused by cesium, which is more of a gamma emitter.
never knew one could live without one,...
but these monsters will blame it on something other than nuclear power.
you all talked about this being what was going to happen, and now you see a vid of it happening and act as if you weren't expecting this.
great group there and here!
why doesn't he protect his device with a plastic bag??
how do you clear children from future cancer? must have hired that doctor from star trek!!
the earth's mass shifted towards the center, spurring the planet to spin a bit faster.
under government standards, sludge can be used in a landfill as long as the radioactive cesium contained in it measures 8,000 becquerels per kilogram or lower.
where is the jet stream currently moving?
us agencies says that is ok because the radiation particles in rainwater are diluted in public water supplies.