i love using stuff from nature in gardening, and what's more natural than the water that falls from the sky?
jul 09, 2008 rating try fish tank water, too by: anonymous i collect rain water also and my plants are doing great.
collect rain water for your plants!
not only is the water free, but it is also free of the chemicals that are found in tap water, as mentioned in the tip.
we get free 55 gallon plastic drums where i work.
rain water is not full of all the chemicals found  in city water and its full of nutrients absorbed during the evaporation process  that leads to rain.
not only is  it more pleasant to smell when using and helps your budget because its free,  the plants love it.
i had read somewhere...
anonymous we just started doing this a month ago.
anonymous i am very interested in doing this to conserve water and same money at the same time.
one slight disagreement, though, is that the rainwater will not be full of nutrients as stated in the tip.
i never would have thought to collect rain water to water my plants, but it makes perfect sense!
average rating click here to add your own comments sep 15, 2008
by scott lilly (delaware, oh, usa) for the past two years, i have been collecting rain water to water my garden plants with instead of using city what from the garden hose.
we have new bushes and flowers to water daily and this would be very helpful and convenient!
simply click here to return togardening tips
by scott lilly (delaware, oh, usa) for the past two years, i have been collecting rain water to water my  garden plants with instead of using city what from the garden hose.
rating great idea but... by: anonymous
jul 06, 2008 rating great idea by:
anonymous i am just curious if you use a cistern to collect the water, or if you use your gutters.
jul 05, 2008 rating rain water + fertilizer by: james chillinger
just as the evaporation process will leave behind bad chemicals that may be in the water, it will also leave behind nutrients (good chemicals) that are in the water.
plus, it's all-natural
plus, i don't feel like i'm wasting all that water, when i clean the tanks.
in addition to collecting rain water i also add in a fertilizer stick and the combination seems to be amazing for my house plants.
jul 05, 2008 rating saves money too by:
comments for collect rain water for your plants!
not only is it more pleasant to smell when using and helps your budget because its free, the plants love it.
click here to add your own comments join in and write your own page!
jul 05, 2008 rating i love it!
aug 23, 2008 rating great idea, but by:
the first time i saw someone do this was on living with ed.
rain water is not full of all the chemicals found in city water and its full of nutrients absorbed during the evaporation process that leads to rain.
anonymous this is truly a great idea.
i also use the water that i replace from my fish tanks instead of throwing it out.
by brand by type tips subscribe to this site collect rain water for your plants!
we place them under rain gutters and haven't had to run our pump and well yet to get water for the yard and garden.
it's a great way to conserve but it doesn't seem very practical.
can't remember where, sorry!...that there was a ton of nutrients in that water as well.