in the past i’ve had trouble keeping some kinds of packages out of the garbage because of the stuff left in them.
when safe plastics came up at a get-together at my house last week, and none of could remember exactly what we were trying to avoid, i realized it was time for a refresher.
last year i narrowly missed one that was perched in full view on a nearby washing pole.
from what stewardship ontario says, i’m gathering that the program’s reason for being is to more effectively divert hazardous waste out of landfills, and safely handle hazardous waste.
according to this paper from the university of california, “properly managed, diversity can also buffer a farm in a biological sense.
within a couple of years, hopefully i’ll have a robust garden full of pretty wildflowers that just come up and put their mettle to the petal.
my veggies, particularly my peppers and tomatoes, just couldn’t handle that.
this features kale, collard greens and spinach.
i have a great prize to get you started.
tags: composting, tea bags communication about a new “eco fee” on some goods sold in ontario has been less than stellar.
perhaps all is not lost.
it appears that some companies have decided to pass the fee on directly to the consumer.
eco alternative: reuseable bags for produce and all  your shopping needs.
who wants to keep that kind of waste around for several months?
no. 2 plastic is hdpe, or high-density polyethylene.
personally, i run around with my camera for days trying to catch a snapshot of these magnificent creatures.
you’ll see it  in reuseable food containers (not the lids, though), some condiment bottles,  and it’s used to make fleece jackets, that thin, clear film that envelops  stationery, and other uses.
going forward, i think i’m going to keep adding a bit of good soil, some leaves and mulch to my plants, to retain as much moisture as possible.
this plastic is also considered safe; you’ll find the no. 2 symbol on yogurt containers, juice jugs and in plastic bags such as those used by grocery stores and inside cereal boxes.
found in food  packaging and used in some cling wraps, there are enough studies showing  concerns about pvc that it’s best avoided.
my hope is next summer, the tranquility in my backyard will again be broken.
during toronto’s garbage strike last year, i started freezing my green bin material; a big part of my freezer was devoted to waste by the time the strike was over.
polystyrene is unrecyclable in many areas.
but these days i’m trying to use my green bin to the fullest, and that means getting icky spoiled food out of the bottom of containers so i can send the spoiled food for composting and the container it was in to be recycled.
ok fine, but what, specifically is the fee meant to do?
i’ve been trying to conserve water, saving hose waterings for long stretches of dry weather, performed at night when the water would seep into the ground and lose less to evaporation.
what are your favourite unconventional summer foods, and how do you prepare them?
no. 7 plastic can be a few things, but is most often polycarbonate, used to make hard, transparent plastic products, and which may contain bpa, or bisphenol-a. like polystyrene,bpa will release from polycarbonate more quickly when heated.
with the hawks’ arrival, my neighbours fall into a familiar routine – a jack russel a few doors down is no longer tied outside, and cats are kept indoors.
what attracts these birds of prey to my little corner of the world is a bank of 100-foot trees that pass along the edge of my yard.
i used rich, black soil when i’d potted my veggies, mixed with some dead leaves and topped with a thick layer of mulch.
the hawks rely on these trees and others like them for shelter and a base from which to hunt.
this is a tasty dip, and feels cool on hot days.
hope you had a great cuppa, ’cause that tea bag is forever, baby.
this second generation of smart evs (electric vehicles) will have a range of 135 kilometres and a home-charging system, the smart can handle many canadians’ daily needs.
of course this is a very good thing in terms of protecting our water supply, among other benefits.
that’s a lot more convenient than the infrequent collection opportunities offered by some municipal governments.
good tea in bags without labels and staples are even better (and make composting even easier).
so i look for paper tea bags, particularly fair trade, organic teas in paper bags that don’t appear bleached.
that once again i will hear the screech and know the hawks have made it back.
healthfully delicious!
aside from black-eyed susans, my garden family of native wildflowers includes wild columbine, yarrow, purple coneflower (echinacea), woodland sunflower, and i’m working on milkweed (most of the seeds i planted last fall didn’t germinate).
then i hear it, an ear piercing screech as a shadow moves along the pages of my book.
eco alternative: reuseable bags for produce and all your shopping needs.
manitoba is actually testing a hybrid vehicle made in the province, hoping for a home-grown alternative vehicle, but no word yet on rebates for individuals.
will the electric car wipe the gasser off the map?
cilantro and mint raita.
long stretches without rain, and no watering?
no. 5 plastic is pp, or polypropylene.
don’t get me wrong, i love these tasty veggies.
in the meantime, here are a few delicious recipes from homemakers that include veggies that, i’m betting, are outside of that top 12 list!
that’s made from petroleum.
well, watch for yourself.
are you avoiding certain plastics?
i grill, stir-fry and roast these things, put them in salads, saute them for pastas, drop them in risotto.
for example, in annual cropping systems, crop rotation can be used to suppress weeds, pathogens and insect pests.”
subscribe now to homemakers magazine “it’s 3, 5 and 7, right?
the eco-clean deck by annie b. bond (random house, $18.99) is not a book, it’s a deck of tabbed cards with recipes for homemade green-cleaning solutions.
not because it’s the right thing to do, but because it’s convenient.
buy your meat from a butcher who uses  butcher paper.
the graceful raptors swoop and soar in the sky, seemingly performing for their many admirers.
the program provides drop sites across ontario for our hazardous waste; you can search for siteshere.
so why are fees showing up when you buy certain goods?
but i recently learned a fact that made it clear i’d be doing the planet a favour if i expanded my shopping list.
making a cup of tea this morning, i paused to appreciate the simple pillow of earl grey tea wrapped in paper, a delicous gift from mom from her visit to harrods.
whether in my organic food delivery box, at the store or at the farmer’s market, i seem to like boston lettuce, button mushrooms, zucchini, asparagus, grape tomatoes and broccoli, maybe some fennel.
so the next time i’m at the farmer’s market (that should be tomorrow)
me, i’m just looking forward to an affordable zero-emission choice.
bring your own takeout food container  or, if you ordered something dry like a pizza, quesadilla or sandwich, ask the  server to put your leftovers in tinfoil.
it seems thatall we’re hearing from the governmentabout it is, “this is not a tax.”
today, only about 150 species are used anywhere in the world.
so how will we know if the program is really keeping hazardous goods out of landfills?
yes, jerusalem artichokes can be grown locally!
the tomatoes that i’d worked so hard bring to fruition (well, at least to fruit) had their leaves curled up, branches saggy, some of them tinged with yellow.
commonly used in foam takeout, egg, hot drink and other containers, as well as for meat trays and foam packing materials, polystyrenewill release styrene monomer, particularly when your food is hot and contains fat.
this  plastic is also considered safe; you’ll find the no. 2 symbol on yogurt  containers, juice jugs and in plastic bags such as those used by grocery stores  and inside cereal boxes.
an eerie silence creeps into my backyard.
not without a fight, i thought, not without a little more effort to see some juicy red seedy globes in a salad later this summer.
contest closes monday, july 19 at 12 p.m. est.
polystyrene is unrecyclable in many  areas.
so far this year i’ve only watered my garden this way twice.
according to the complete idiot’s guide to self-sufficient living, “throughout history, nearly 10,000 different plants have provided food for humans.
just like banking, where we once had just tellers, then we had tellers and phone banking, then we added atms, then we added internet banking, then mobile banking, adding electric cars simply means new options for the marketplace.
that is if they survive the city’s smog, changing climate and never ending development.
i’d been away for three days, and although i’d watered everything from my rain barrel before i left, it had been blindingly hot and uncomfortably humid, several degrees above seasonal norms (experts say climate change is a likely contributor) .
no. 7 plastic can be a few things, but is most often  polycarbonate, used to make hard, transparent plastic products, and which may  contain bpa, or bisphenol-a. like polystyrene,bpa will release from  polycarbonate more quickly when heated.
this  flexible plastic is used to make plastic bags and wraps, among other  applications.
i put it into the green bin and put the hummus container in the blue bin.
better safe than sorry, right?
green superstar soup.
the rest of the team and i are working hard to make sure every t is crossed!
i’m sure eco logic readers are all over this one!
they may not get all the sun they crave, but at least they won’t be crispy.
this sounds so tasty, i’m looking forward to finding some fresh bok choy!
beet and jerusalem artichoke salad with blue cheese dressing.
“it’s 3, 5 and 7, right?
considering i live in the largest city in canada, i am extremely fortunate to have such impressive towering giants so close.
commonly used in beverage bottles, pet is generally considered safe, although  some warn not to reuse it repeatedly because it may degrade over time.
i thought they were dead.
i’ve done a little research on your behalf to clarifywhich are safe plastics and which are best avoided.
the fee side of the program is applied to companies’ products to cover collection, transportation and processing of this hazardous waste, essentially spent containers and other product packaging of various kinds.
while i like the sweet blossoms of non-native annuals, and i do have a few types of adorable pansies tucked into baskets here and there, i am so impressed with my native plants’ ability to deal with extremes.
or is it 4, 6 and 7?”
while generally considered safe, not every municipality has recycling facilities for polypropylene.
trees ontario and ontario’s ministry of natural resources have joined together in an ambitious greening program.
by 2012, the car will be available in 40 countries.
and i also found that freezing leftover, spoiled dips and sauces, the remainders of pie stuck to a pie plate, and other food i should have eaten earlier makes it a lot easier to separate the food from its package.
i’m looking forward to hearing your tips!tags: composting, green bin super hot days?
while considered safe, who wants to see all those bags in the  landfill?
tags: bp oil spill let’s share our garbage-reduction tips.
tags: plastic grades, plastic rating, safe plastics, toxic plastics author(s):
in the spring we lost a 125-year-old tree a few streets over.
find out by pricing out how much you're spending on your average dinner meal.
consumers in ontario will now be asked to take household hazardous waste to a collection point, and we will also see an “eco fee” added to the purchase of 22 types of goods, from household detergents to fire extinguishers, syringes to pharmaceuticals.
you’ll see it in reuseable food containers (not the lids, though), some condiment bottles, and it’s used to make fleece jackets, that thin, clear film that envelops stationery, and other uses.
i have a great prize in store for your winning idea!
tags: electric vehicles hi everybody!
eco alternative: once again, stainless-steel or glass bottles are great choices.
instructions: simply post a garbage-collection tip below to win.
photo copyright catherine labelle.
more than 70 percent of our food comes from just 12 of these.”
found in food packaging and used in some cling wraps, there are enough studies showing concerns about pvc that it’s best avoided.
braised baby bok choy with lemon and lemon grass
(think about it: you could “fill up” overnight at home, when power rates are at their cheapest, rather than stopping by a station.)
while generally considered safe, not
provincial governments are offering rebates for buying or leasing evs; ontario is offering between $5,000 and $8,000.
july 27, 2010 plastics refresher: what number is safe again?
no. 4 plastic is ldpe, or low-density polyethylene.
eco alternative: stainless-steel or glass food containers, or containers made with no. 1 or no. 2 plastic.
i’ll share mine first, to get you started.
no. 6 plastic is ps, or polystyrene.
take it away catherine!
i like the idea of making tea with an infuser, but at work, with dozens of people sharing a kitchen, the handling process is not practical.
get homemakers.com's monthly newsletter.
i don’t mind coddling pretty flowers – they pay back in their cheeriness, but when a plant doesn’t make it i replace it with a native perennial wildflower.
no. 3 plastic is pvc, or polyvinyl chloride.
buy your meat from a butcher who uses butcher paper.
and how will the nasty waste be dealt with exactly?
commonly used in foam  takeout, egg, hot drink and other containers, as well as for meat trays and  foam packing materials, polystyrenewill release styrene monomer, particularly  when your food is hot and contains fat.
bring your own takeout food container or, if you ordered something dry like a pizza, quesadilla or sandwich, ask the server to put your leftovers in tinfoil.
here’s what i’ve learned so far: on july 1, stewardship ontario launched the “orange drop” program, a hazardous waste collection program.
rules: you must live in canada and be at least the age of majority for the province or territory in which you live.
when safe plastics came up at a get-together  at my house last week, and none of could remember exactly what we were trying  to avoid, i realized it was time for a refresher.
yes, diversity counts in the butcher shop as well!
not open to employees of transcontinental media, nor their families or anyone they live with.
these black-eyed susans (rudbeckia hirta) had lots of buds ready to pop, but they didn’t do so until after a good rain.
so there’s my tip for keeping more food – and containers – out of the garbage (while thwarting
are you growing any native wildflowers or other native plants this year?
in 30-degree heat, i think that’s all i can ask for.
i often try new kinds of tea, but i’ve noticed a disconcerting trend:many new premium teas, espousing health benefits, are packaged in silk, and i discovered that those fancy “pyramid” tea bags are made of nylon.
as the cost of fuel rises, and the scale of electric car production increases, no doubt evs will seem increasingly attractive.
but now the soil was compacted, likely thanks to heavy rains and then severe heat.
no. 1 plastic is pet, or polyethylene terephthalate.
i think the companies like these materials because it’s easier for us to see their premium ingredients.
prize will be drawn randomly from all entrants who comment with a garbage-reduction tip.
every summer a pair of red-tailed hawks descend upon my neighbourhood.
last night i took a spoiled container of hummus out of the freezer, and i just stuck a (dull) knife into it and pulled, and the whole disc of frozen hummus popped out at once.
i was rewarded for my efforts: this morning my potted veggies didn’t look entirely better, but they were significantly perked up.
eco alternative: once  again, stainless-steel or glass bottles are great choices.
i can see how not only eating locally, but trying new things would benefit local producers — and the environment.
this flexible plastic is used to make plastic bags and wraps, among other applications.
so i started freezing my green bin waste regularly, taking it from the freezer to the bin on collection morning.
eco alternative: stainless-steel or glass food containers, or  containers made with no. 1 or no. 2 plastic.
while considered safe, who wants to see all those bags in the landfill?
i’m swamped finalizing the september issue of homemakers magazine.
alberta is offering $3,000 rebates for hybrid taxis.
are you avoiding certain plastics?tags: plastic grades, plastic rating, safe plastics, toxic plastics i’m away for a few days, but writer catherine labelle has a story she would like to share with you.
it’s a race to the production line, but unless a shipload of nissan leafs (leaves?) or tesla s show up within the next couple of months, the first fully electric car to be available at canadian dealers, legal on canadian roads will be the smart.
i watered each plant thoroughly but lightly from my rain barrel, trying to urge the soil to absorb as much water as possible.
my native wildflowers, particularly the black-eyed susans shown here, are thriving in the swings of extremes in my street-side front garden.
commonly used in beverage bottles, pet is generally considered safe, although some warn not to reuse it repeatedly because it may degrade over time.
taking the pots into my makeshift plant hospital one by one, i tried to loosen up the soil by flexing the pots, adding more good soil and kelp meal, then adding a lot more mulch on top.
newsletter could you cut your grocery bill without sacrificing nutrition, variety and taste?
i usually just use a watering can and my rain barrel since saving water means protecting watersheds and conserving energy.
it is not unusual to spot one of the hawks perched on a branch scouring the ground below for squirrels, mice and snakes.
i learned something: when you don’t put smelly stuff in your green bin – particularly in summer –raccoons won’t tip over your bin in the middle of the night and make a big stinky mess.
i’m usually contacted about environment-related announcements, and i’m always on the lookout for this kind of information.
every  municipality has recycling facilities for polypropylene.
and next time i go away for a couple of days, i’ll put those veggies in partial shade.
the silk bags are natural fibres, sure, and could potentially break down given enough heat, microbes and time, but nylon?
organizations like leaf, a not-for-profit, are working to restore more tree-cover in urban centres.
my pansies tried to bloom in dry conditions, and some of the little blossoms quickly faded, their thin fleshy stems collapsing in defeat when i was away for a long weekend and not there to water them.
let’s face it, cities, particularly large ones, are not generally kind to trees.
their goal: plant50 million trees in southern ontario within 10 years.
hammering deluge of rain?
but i didn’t know about this program until it was mentioned on the tv news last night; the news crew showed people at a hardware store surprised by the new eco fee on their receipt.
to learn all about tea, have a look at this terrific article here at homemakers.com.
replacements, what few there are, are saplings that will take decades to grow to a decent size.
already sold in europe, 1,500 smart fortwo electric drive cars will be available for long-term lease in north america starting this fall, rumoured to cost approx.
tags: birds, habitat, hawks, red-tailed hawks, trees looking at my grocery list the other day, i realize that i often buy the same things.
the fees stewardship ontario is charging each company are based on the number of units of product they distribute in the ontario marketplace; the fee amounts are approved by the ontario minister of the environment.
i’ll pick something new, and let you know what it was and how i prepared it as part of a tasty meal.
they plan to offer recharging stations at some commuter hubs and allow ev drivers into hov lanes, even if there’s only one person in the car.
so until tomorrow, here’s an interesting video i found showing a reporter gathering water samples at various public beaches in alabama – beaches that are being enjoyed by lots of people, including little kids – in order to determine the oil levels at each beach.
you have a garbage-reduction tip to share?
i’ve done a little  research on your behalf to clarifywhich are safe plastics and which are  best avoided.
each year more and more mature trees in my neighbourhood disappear.
eco alternative: stainless-steel or glass bottles.
with urban trees facing such challenges, it is a wonder whether we will be seeing hawks in the city for much longer.
have you brought any plants back from the brink?tags: gardening, heat wave contests, recipes, member-only perks and more!
i’m not sure why these difficult or impossible to compost tea bags are considered “premium.”
like crispy-fried dead.
no more calls from the cardinals, and the squirrels have stopped leaping from tree to tree.
i’ll pose that question and get back to you!tags:eco fees, orange drop, stewardship ontario
but why do arguments against the electric car always assume it’s eat or be eaten?