your water usage and pressure.
heavy sodium or  potassium salt concentrations in the absence of calcium or magnesium may affect  swelling of soils and retard the growth of plants.
the exclusive four-layer construction of the quadra-hull® tank provides more protection than industry standard fiberglass and metal tanks.
culligan dealers are independently operated.
enjoy fresher laundry and  spotless glasses.
no minerals can be added to this product.
what payment options does your dealer offer?
your local culligan man can provide more details about all of  culligan’s environmentally friendly products and solutions.
this allows your water softener to use only the  amount of salt you need.
every factor should be considered,  including family growth and guest visits.
these can often serve more than one purpose, most commonly filtering water for a drinking water tap in the kitchen, plus an icemaker or refrigerator line.
softer laundry, linens and towels.
plus, a quality system may save you money because it’s  more efficient and requires less maintenance.
most products can be rented from your culligan dealer.
with regular use with moderately hard water, your water softener will only need to be refilled with salt every two or three months.
offer valid on products sold  for residential use.
these types of waters are  considered soft drinks.)
your local culligan man can help you decide which solution is right for you.
and they are uv resistant.
what is the difference between the various kinds of bottled  waters?
point-of-use (pou) water filtration products are systems designed to treat  only the water coming from the tap or water appliances to which it is  connected.
the soft, conditioned water you get from a culligan water softener system  offers a number of environmentally-friendly benefits: reduces chemicals used around your house – sinks, faucets, tubs and  showers come cleaner with fewer harsh chemical cleaning products.
bottles used for bottled water delivery, saving even more landfill space,  emissions and oil.
this convenient options offers a number of benefits: *culligan dealers are independently operated.
your local culligan man can show you more about our exclusive  products and solutions.
your culligan dealer can provide you with a free water analysis and recommend the right aqua-cleer filter combination for your unique water needs.
filtered water is water that has gone through filters to reduce the amount  of iron, hydrogen sulfide, aesthetic chlorine taste and odor as well as  microorganisms, such as cryptosporidium and giardia.
how long has the company or dealer been in business?
for high-efficiency water softening, nothing can match the intelligent  design of the culligan he.
this technologically advanced process provides one of the most proven ways to filter water.
when you purchase a culligan product, you are purchasing the finest water  treatment product available today.
culligan's quadra-hull® tanks offer a limited lifetime warranty on the tank and internal components.
offer valid on products  sold for residential use.
the aqua-sensor® technology is available on the culligan smart-sensor ®, platinum plus, culligan gold series and culligan medallist series® water softeners.
for outside sprinkling purposes the use of softened water is, first and foremost, wasteful.
reverse osmosis (ro) is a filtration process where water molecules are forced through a semi-permeable membrane under intense pressure.
soft water provides for easier maintenance of a humidifier.
as water enters the tank, dissolved calcium and magnesium are attracted to the resin.
your local culligan man can give you more details about our  worry-free water softeners.
culligan’s patented aqua-sensor® technology offers a  technologically advanced method to regeneration.
in addition, there are various financing options available for culligan products and services.
softeners use fresh resin beads with sodium ions attached to the resin.
many thrive best in slightly acid soils.
the semi-permeable membrane only allows water molecules to pass through, treating the water by reducing specified contaminants3 such as arsenic v, barium, chromium and radium 226/228 and microorganisms, such as cryptosporidium and giardia.
the resin “exchanges” the sodium for the dissolved chemicals  and the water is then rid of these impurities.
culligan water softeners offer unique bypass products that allow you to use your soft water supply for you and your home, not for your lawn, either at the softener or using culligan's remote display.
your local culligan man can provide a complimentary water  analysis to determine the hardness levels in your water, and recommend the best  water treatment options for your home.
increase water heater efficiency and more.
try using a quarter cup rather than the cup or more that may have been necessary prior to the installation of a water softener.
your local culligan man can show you all the benefits of using soft water in your home.
in addition, the culligan gold series water softener has been named as a  consumers digest “best buy” by consumers digest magazine (august  2003).
but a 180-pound man would need about 90 ounces of water a day or about 11-12 glasses.
does the company or dealer offer a satisfaction guarantee?
culligan has a number of point-of-use drinking water systems, such  as reverse osmosis systems, faucet filters, plumbed-in single tap filters,  drinking water coolers, and drinking water filtration.
soft water is water that contains few or no dissolved minerals, such as calcium, magnesium, iron and manganese.
will softened water affect my lawn or garden?
does the company or dealer offer references?
do less cleaning and scrubbing.
your culligan dealer can tell you more about the high efficiency  technology and how it will benefit your home.
talk to your culligan dealer about the convenient financing and  payment options for a water solution for your home.
reduced hard water buildup in your dishwater, hot water tank, and tankless  water heater.
where the amount of hardness minerals in the water is only moderate (less than 200 milligramsper liter), it is doubtful whether the sodium concentration would be sufficient to be a serious hazard to plants.
(an important note: soda water, seltzer water  and tonic water are not considered bottled waters.
you must notify your participating culligan dealer of your  decision to return the product no later than 30 days after your date of  purchase.
culligan's quadra-hull® tanks offer a  limited lifetime warranty on the tank and internal components.
filtering water involves separating mineral particles, like particulates,  iron, hydrogen sulfide or organic matter, from the water molecule (h2o).
can i rent culligan products?
*"home water treatment system discharges to on-site wastewater systems," j.f. harrison, c.f michaud, water conditioning & purification publication, (12/2005, pp.
a good way to adjust to the difference in cleaning efficiency is to use as little soap as possible.
brighter, cleaner clothes.
what are point-of-entry (poe) and point-of-use (pou) filtration  products?
regeneration is a process that “recharges” the resin beads after they’ve become exhausted by removing the hardness minerals.
the aqua-sensor® system measures the hardness of your water and only regenerates when necessary.
look for someone who not only sells  water conditioning and filtration products, but someone who truly knows how to  address your specific water problems.
water naturally becomes hard as it moves over  and through the earth to either a reservoir or into an underground aquifer.
water softening involves a process called "ion exchange" to  remove the dissolved minerals that can't be trapped by astandard filter.
hard water can leave spots on your glasses and dishes, make laundry dingy, dull or feeling scratchy, and cause soap scum and scale to build up around showers and faucets, which makes cleaning a chore.
how much water should you consume?
this convenient  options offers a number of benefits: benefit from affordable monthly rates a perfect option for apartments, rental properties or seasonal homes low monthly fee includes all service and repairs agreements are month-to-month with no long-term contracts*, so you can get  the system you want with no commitment.
your local culligan man may offer several types of bottled drinking water: drinking water – available in 20oz, 24oz, 1/2 liter, 1 liter and 1  1/2 liter, 1 gallon, 2.5 gallon, 3 gallon, and 5 gallon bottles spring water – available in 1, 2.5, 3 and 5 gallon bottles distilled water – available in 1 gallon bottles demineralized water your local culligan man can provide more information about our  bottled water delivery service.
your localculligan dealer may  also offer special financing options.
by  passing water through a "filter bed," or "media bed," these  granular particles are trapped – allowing the clean water to pass through.
your culligan dealer can provide you with a free water analysis  and recommend the right aqua-cleer filter combination for your unique water  needs.
3 contaminants are not necessarily in your water
why choose culligan?
the aqua-sensor® technology is available on the culligan smart-sensor ®, platinum plus, culligan gold series and culligan medallist series®  water softeners.
sparkling water: water that after treatment and possible replacement with  carbon dioxidecontains the same amount of carbon dioxide that it had at  emergence from the source.
the patented aqua-sensor® system monitors the hardness in your water to  determine exactly when your softener needs to regenerate in order to continue  to provide you with soft water.
offers may vary talk to your culligan dealer about the rental options on a culligan product for your home.
reverse osmosis (ro) is a filtration process where water molecules are  forced through a semi-permeable membrane under intense pressure.
household size may influence consumption, but  different families have different needs.
what is filtered water?
what are the environmentally-friendly benefits of culligan  drinking water?
when hard water evaporates, a hard scale forms that can be difficult to remove.
1 impurities not necessarily in your water.
for example, a 60-pound  child would need a minimum of at least 30 ounces of water a day, or about three  to four glasses.
*"home water treatment system discharges to on-site wastewater  systems," j.f. harrison, c.f michaud, water conditioning &  purification publication, (12/2005, pp.
the regeneration process restores the effectiveness of the resin beads, enabling the water softener to continue to create soft water.
what is culligan’s 100% satisfaction guarantee?
water is critical in regulating all body organs and temperature, and dissolving solids and moving nutrients throughout the body.
an ion exchange softener removes dissolved hard minerals from  the water, and creates “soft” water.
with soft water, you’ll see a difference all over the house: soft water is also better for your appliances and plumbing: your local culligan man can recommend the right water softener for your home.
hard water is water that contains dissolved minerals such as calcium, magnesium, iron and manganese.
once you choose the solution that is right for your home and your water  problems, the following questions may help you choose a company to suit your  needs: is installation included in the price?
as the leader in water treatment, there are a number of reasons culligan is  a better choice for better water: history: over 75 years of water treatment experience so you can trust that your  local culligan man will always be ready to help, today and tomorrow.
most house plants require specific soil conditions for healthy growth.
uses less energy – culligan products are designed to be energy  efficient.
cleaner, smoother skin and hair.
your local culligan man can recommend the right water softener  for your home.
if necessary, gradually increase the quantity used to produce the desired results.
your local culligan man can tell you more about how a water softener system will work with a septic system.
what type of maintenance contract or after-sales services does your  manufacturer or dealer offer?
when you purchase a culligan product, you are purchasing the finest water treatment product available today.
new rust and dirty water stains are virtually eliminated.
a good way to adjust to the difference in cleaning efficiency is to  use as little soap as possible.
culligan water softeners, whole-house filters and drinking water systems  are backed by the powerful good housekeeping seal.
check with your  local bank or finance company for information.
superior technology: with culligan, you get exclusive, patented technology like the  aqua-cleer® advanced drinking water system and the culligan he water  softener system that you won’t find on other systems.
this  exclusive option can result in a savings of up to two tons of salt and 20,000  gallons of water over the lifecycle of your water softener.
has your dealer tested your water?
culligan’s latest water softener innovation is our culligan high efficiency (he) technology, which maximizes the efficiency of your water softener.
your local culligan man can answer all your questions about your water solution and the best solution for your home.
once you choose the solution that is right for your home and your water problems, the following questions may help you choose a company to suit your needs: *dealer participation may vary
your local culligan man can tell you more about the benefits of  aqua-sensor® technology.
your local culligan man can show you more about the dependable  construction on every culligan water softener.
recycle – culligan recycles or reuses the 5 gallon (18.9 liter)
trust culligan for better water, pure and simple.
what is reverse osmosis (ro) technology?
the aqua-sensor® system  measures the hardness of your water and only regenerates when necessary.
34-39) your local culligan man can tell you more about how a water  softener system will work with a septic system.
try using a quarter cup rather than the cup or  more that may have been necessary prior to the installation of a water  softener.
most adults need eight to 12 eight-ounce  glasses of water or fluids daily, but needs vary by activity level, health  circumstances (including pregnancy) and even by age.
if necessary, gradually increase the quantity used to produce the  desired results.
please refer to your  humidifier’s operating instructions for more information.
in addition, the culligan gold series water softener has been named as a consumers digest “best buy” by consumers digest magazine (august 2003).
and people may need more water as they age, since  thirst signals may become dull, activity levels decline and prescription drugs  may dehydrate their bodies further.
point-of-use (pou) water filtration products are systems designed to treat only the water coming from the tap or water appliances to which it is connected.
less soap scum and stains in tubs, showers and shower doors.
because water is  naturally low in sodium, has no fat, cholesterol or caffeine and isn't flushed  straight through the body like many other beverages, it's the natural solution  to help reach your body’s daily fluid quota.
for more information about proper hydration, talk to your local culligan man.
with soft water, you’ll see a difference all over the house: cleaner sinks, and faucets with less crusty scale buildup.
appliances need less detergent and soap, which helps you save money and is  better for the environment.
innovation: culligan’s world-renowned research & development and analytical lab are constantly seeking new solutions for tomorrow’s water issues.
your local culligan man can explain all of the advanced functions  in a culligan water softener.
your local culligan man can recommend a water softening solution to address your hard water problems.
by passing water through a "filter bed," or "media bed," these granular particles are trapped – allowing the clean water to pass through.
distilled, reverse osmosis, or deionized water or rain water are better choices for watering plants to prevent mineral accumulation in the soil .
many thrive best in  slightly acid soils.
other types of water are defined by the fda as follows: artesian water: bottled water from a well that taps a confined aquifer (a  water-bearing underground layer of rock or sand).
*dealer participation may vary your local culligan man can answer all your questions about your  water solution and the best solution for your home.
we are so certain of this fact that if you  are dissatisfied with your culligan product for any reason within 30 days of  your purchase, culligan will remove the product and refund the purchase price.
your local culligan man can show you all the benefits of using  soft water in your home.
how often do i have to refill the salt?
is financing available for culligan products?
culligan’s latest water softener innovation is our culligan high  efficiency (he) technology, which maximizes the efficiency of your water  softener.
the  semi-permeable membrane only allows water molecules to pass  through, treating the water by reducing specified contaminants3  such as arsenic v, barium, chromium and radium 226/228 and  microorganisms, such as cryptosporidium and giardia.
culligan’s aqua-sensor® technology maximizes the efficiency of  your water softener.
if there is a high hardness concentration in the water being softened, the chances are good that ncessarily high hardness concentration of the soft water would be harmful to plants.
most house plants  require specific soil conditions for healthy growth.
with patented technologies to optimize salt, water  and electricity consumption by up to 46%*, it can save you money.
hard water can leave spots on your glasses and dishes, make laundry dingy, dull  or feeling scratchy, and cause soap scum and scale to build up around showers  and faucets, which makes cleaning a chore.
the system offers filters that reduce a wide range of impurities1, including sediment, chlorine, lead, radium, and arsenic for quality drinking water.
if you are not fully satisfied with your  culligan product within 30 days after your purchase, we will remove the product  and give you a full refund – no questions asked.
water softening involves a process called "ion exchange" to remove the dissolved minerals that can't be trapped by astandard filter.
choose from a reputable dealer.
in addition, using soft water will help reduce the mineral build-up and  keep the humidifier functioning properly.
your local culligan man can tell you more about the benefits of aqua-sensor® technology.
what are the benefits of the quadra-hull® tank?
the real value of a "quick fix.
how much water should i drink each day?
should i use soft water in my humidifier?
the patented aqua-sensor® system monitors the hardness in your water to determine exactly when your softener needs to regenerate in order to continue to provide you with soft water.
these can often serve  more than one purpose, most commonly filtering water for a drinking water tap  in the kitchen, plus an icemaker or refrigerator line.
enjoy fresher laundry and spotless glasses.
where the amount of hardness minerals in the water is only moderate (less  than 200 milligramsper liter), it is doubtful whether the sodium concentration  would be sufficient to be a serious hazard to plants.
they are regulated  separately and may contain sugar and calories.
with patented technologies to optimize salt, water and electricity consumption by up to 46%*, it can save you money.
your local culligan man can answer all your questions about a  water solution for your home.
your culligan dealer can show you our entire line of award-winning  products and solutions.
this makes cleaning your home easier because you won’t need  as many harsh chemical cleaners.
there is a culligan solution for every budget.
this technologically advanced process provides one of the most proven ways  to filter water.
regeneration is a process that “recharges” the resin beads  after they’ve become exhausted by removing the hardness minerals.
hard water is water that contains dissolved minerals such as calcium,  magnesium, iron and manganese.
your culligan man will provide you  with a recommended solution for your home and water.
the aqua-cleer® system features 13 interchangeable water filters, including reverse osmosis, that enable the system to be customized to address your specific water problems.
innovation: culligan’s world-renowned research & development and
using soft water in a humidifier will only leave a light residue that can be easily wiped away.
superior technology: with culligan, you get exclusive, patented technology like the aqua-cleer® advanced drinking water system and the culligan he water softener system that you won’t find on other systems.
dealer network: with over 800 culligan dealers worldwide, you can trust that your local culligan man will know your water conditions and have the right solution to provide you with better water.
culligan water softeners offer unique bypass products that allow you to use  your soft water supply for you and your home, not for your lawn, either at the  softener or using culligan's remote display.
please refer to your humidifier’s operating instructions for more information.
© 2011 culligan international company 9399 west higgins rd., ste 1100 rosemont, il 60018
culligan conditioning and soft water solutions include water softeners, water filtration systems, reverse osmosis water filters, and drinking water filters.
as the leader in water treatment, there are a number of reasons culligan is a better choice for better water: history: over 75 years of water treatment experience so you can trust that your local culligan man will always be ready to help, today and tomorrow.
broad expertise and products: culligan offers solutions not only for homes.
the resin “exchanges” the sodium for the dissolved chemicals and the water is then rid of these impurities.
analytical  lab are constantly seeking new solutions for tomorrow’s water issues.
even better, it can improve your daily life.
pipes are clearer with less corrosive elements and scale buildup.
culligan also offers water treatment solutions for commercial and industrial applications, including applications from filters and softeners for restaurants and coffee bars to water treatment for power plants and manufacturing facilities.
soft water is also better for your appliances and plumbing: appliances work more efficiently and last longer.
what questions should i ask when i have decided on a solution?
up to 46% less versus a time clock regeneration softener.
service: culligan’s trained and certified water technicians are among the world’s finest and offer the service and maintenance in your home.
the aqua-cleer® system features 13 interchangeable water filters,  including reverse osmosis, that enable the system to be customized to  address your specific water problems.
again, where the concentration of hardness minerals is heavy, the sodium salts replacing them might retard growth and might be sufficient to kill the grass.
point-of-entry (poe) water filtration products are systems that treat all  of the water used in a home or single building.
" inexpensive water filters  and other standard solutions are tempting but may not be enough to solve your  problem for good.
hard water is probably the most common water problem found in the home.
100% satisfaction guarantee: we stand behind our products.
your local culligan man is a genuine  water expert who will be able to help you address your specific water issues  with the right solution.
find your culligan dealer atculligan.com or contact culligan international by clickingcontact us.
this design makes them impervious to rust and  corrosion
how much soap should i use with softened water?
is the equipment capacity right for your household’s water usage?
the most common treatment for hard water in homes is an ion exchange  water softener.
most adults need eight to 12 eight-ounce glasses of water or fluids daily, but needs vary by activity level, health circumstances (including pregnancy) and even by age.
the amount of water used as well as  water pressure are factors to consider when fitting your home with a water  quality improvement system.
mineral water: contains no less than 250 parts per million of total  dissolved solids (minerals).
again, where the concentration of hardness  minerals is heavy, the sodium salts replacing them might retard growth and  might be sufficient to kill the grass.
talk to your culligan dealer about the convenient financing and payment options for a water solution for your home.
offer valid on products sold for residential use.
with soft water, you can use a lot less soap and detergent in your  appliances.
spring water: bottled water derived from an underground formation from  which water flows naturally to the surface of the earth.
what other services are included in  the price?
reverse osmosis filtration technology is available in the culligan aqua-cleer® system and point-of-use water coolers.
of course, if you have harder water then you may need to refill the system more frequently.
faq what are culligan’s newest products for soft water?
your local culligan man can explain all of the advanced functions in a culligan water softener.
studies* have shown that water softener regeneration  wastes do not interfere with the septic tank system drain field soil  percolation, and, actually could improve soil percolation, particularly in  fine-textured soils.
plus, with over 75 years of experience, you can trust  that your local culligan man will be here to help you now and down the road  with all of your water problems.
solutions: culligan offers a wide range of state-of-the-art solutions for drinking  water, filtered water, soft water and bottled water delivery.
your local culligan man can give you more details about our worry-free water softeners.
culligan’s aqua-cleer® advanced drinking water system is the most innovative water filtration system available today.
if you are not fully satisfied with your culligan product within 30 days after your purchase, we will remove the product and give you a full refund – no questions asked.
here are some helpful considerations you may want to take into account before purchasing a water treatment system: your local culligan man can answer all your questions about a water solution for your home.
if there is a high hardness concentration in the  water being softened, the chances are good that ncessarily high hardness  concentration of the soft water would be harmful to plants.
does the equipment carry a specific written warranty?
according to the water quality association (wqa), water softener regeneration discharges do not pose a problem to properly-sized septic systems or to the leach field.
culligan offers a salt service program where your local culligan man will  provide regular salt deliveries and refill the salt for you.
culligan has a number of point-of-use drinking water systems, such as reverse osmosis systems, faucet filters, plumbed-in single tap filters, drinking water coolers, and drinking water filtration.
according to the water quality association (wqa), water softener  regeneration discharges do not pose a problem to properly-sized septic systems  or to the leach field.
point-of-entry (poe) water filtration products are systems that treat all of the water used in a home or single building.
culligan’s quadra-hull® tank is one of the strongest water tanks available on a water softener.
with soft water, you can use a lot less soap and detergent in your appliances.
3 contaminants are not necessarily in your water what are the benefits of a water softener?
culligan’s aqua-sensor® technology maximizes the efficiency of your water softener.
according to the water quality association, water that contains more than 1 gpg (grain per gallon) of these dissolved minerals is considered hard water.
all “bottled water” is regulated by strict guidelines created by the food and drug administration (fda).
for high-efficiency water softening, nothing can match the intelligent design of the culligan he.
for outside sprinkling purposes the use of softened water is, first  and foremost, wasteful.
your culligan dealer can show you our entire line of award-winning products and solutions.
hard water also can build up,  causing stains and buildup inside your water appliances, including dishwashers,  washing machines, traditional water heaters, and new tankless waterheaters.
you must notify your participating culligan dealer of  your decision to return the product no later than 30 days after your date of  purchase.
your local culligan man can show you more about the dependable construction on every culligan water softener.
water is critical in regulating all body organs and temperature, and  dissolving solids and moving nutrients throughout the body.
in addition, using soft water will help reduce the mineral build-up and keep the humidifier functioning properly.
the soft, conditioned water you get from a culligan water softener system offers a number of environmentally-friendly benefits: your local culligan man can provide more details about all of culligan’s environmentally friendly products and solutions.
culliganoffers a wide range of  whole house filters that deliver cleaner water to every tap and water appliance  in the house.
or, if using softened water, water heavily to wash previously deposited  minerals through and beyond the plants' root zones.
distilled, reverse osmosis, or deionized water or rain water are  better choices for watering plants to prevent mineral accumulation in the soil .
heavy sodium or potassium salt concentrations in the absence of calcium or magnesium may affect swelling of soils and retard the growth of plants.
of course, if you have  harder water then you may need to refill the system more frequently.
a water softener removes the harsh minerals commonly found in hard water,  leaving you with softer, mineral-free water that is much easier and gentler on  everything that uses water.
decreases salt needs – culligan’s monitoring technology,  including the patented aqua-sensor® water softener technology and our  exclusive meters, monitors water quality and only regenerates the system when  needed, minimizing water and salt usage.
and people may need more water as they age, since thirst signals may become dull, activity levels decline and prescription drugs may dehydrate their bodies further.
*culligan dealers are independently operated.
your local culligan man can show you more about our exclusive products and solutions.
other types of water are defined by the fda as follows: your local culligan man may offer several types of bottled drinking water: your local culligan man can provide more information about our bottled water delivery service.
this allows your water softener to use only the amount of salt you need.
water conditioning equipment may qualify for  financing under fha title 1 or private lending agreements.
when hard water  evaporates, a hard scale forms that can be difficult to remove.
using soft  water in a humidifier will only leave a light residue that can be easily wiped  away.
an ion exchange softener removes dissolved hard minerals from the water, and creates “soft” water.
your local culligan man can help you decide which solution is  right for you.
this exclusive option can result in a savings of up to two tons of salt and 20,000 gallons of water over the lifecycle of your water softener.
culligan’s aqua-cleer® advanced drinking water system is the most  innovative water filtration system available today.
for more information about proper hydration, talk to your local  culligan man.
according to the water quality association, water that contains more than 1  gpg (grain per gallon) of these dissolved minerals is considered hard water.
what is regeneration?
this design makes them impervious to rust and corrosion and they are uv resistant.
usa as a world leader in water filtration, culligan water provides whole house water treatment and softener solutions for high-quality drinking water and soft water for your home.
aqua-sensor® technology can allow you to achieve a  savings of up to two tons of salt and 20,000 gallons of water overthe lifecycle  of your water softener.
minimizes dirty water discharge – dishwashers and washing machines  require less detergent and soaps.
but a 180-pound man would need about 90 ounces of water a day  or about 11-12 glasses.
the system offers filters that reduce a  wide range of impurities1, including sediment, chlorine, lead, radium, and  arsenic for quality drinking water.
dealer network: with over 800 culligan dealers worldwide, you can trust that your  local culligan man will know your water conditions and have the right solution  to provide you with better water.
your local culligan man can recommend a water softening solution  to address your hard water problems.
aqua-sensor® technology can allow you to achieve a savings of up to two tons of salt and 20,000 gallons of water overthe lifecycle of your water softener.
in addition, there are  various financing options available for culligan products and services.
here are some helpful considerations you may want to take into  account before purchasing a water treatment system: do you have hard water?
or, if using softened water, water heavily to wash previously deposited minerals through and beyond the plants' root zones.
your culligan dealer can tell you more about the high efficiency technology and how it will benefit your home.
what should i consider before buying a water treatment solution?
a culligan drinking water system and culligan bottled water offer two environmentally-friendly alternatives to single-serve bottled drinking water that can benefit the environment in a number of ways: your local culligan man can provide more details about all of culligan’s environmentally friendly products and solutions.
service: culligan’s trained and certified water technicians are among the  world’s finest and offer the service and maintenance in your home.
the exclusive four-layer construction of the  quadra-hull® tank provides more protection than industry standard  fiberglass and metal tanks.
with regular use with moderately hard water, your water softener will only  need to be refilled with salt every two or three months.
your local culligan man can help you determine the type of water filtration system you need.
rent-to-purchase agreements available add additional services like salt delivery for a low monthly fee professional installation and set up from your culligan service technician *culligan dealers are independently operated.
culligan’s patented aqua-sensor® technology offers a technologically advanced method to regeneration.
filtering water involves separating mineral particles, like particulates, iron, hydrogen sulfide or organic matter, from the water molecule (h2o).
culligan offers a salt service program where your local culligan man will provide regular salt deliveries and refill the salt for you.
for example, a 60-pound child would need a minimum of at least 30 ounces of water a day, or about three to four glasses.
increase water heater  efficiency and more.
according to the fda, water labeled  as “bottled water” cannot contain sweeteners or chemical additives  (other than flavors, extracts or essences) and must be calorie-free and  sugar-free.
culliganoffers a wide range of whole house filters that deliver cleaner water to every tap and water appliance in the house.
have culligan products received any endorsements?
culligan water softeners, whole-house filters and drinking water systems are backed by the powerful good housekeeping seal.
filtered water is water that has gone through filters to reduce the amount of iron, hydrogen sulfide, aesthetic chlorine taste and odor as well as microorganisms, such as cryptosporidium and giardia.
we are so certain of this fact that if you are dissatisfied with your culligan product for any reason within 30 days of your purchase, culligan will remove the product and refund the purchase price.
what are culligan’s newest products for drinking water?
your local culligan man can recommend a reverse osmosis filtration system for you.
your local culligan man can help you determine the type of water  filtration system you need.
a culligan drinking water system and culligan bottled water offer two  environmentally-friendly alternatives to single-serve bottled drinking water  that can benefit the environment in a number of ways: clean up landfills – your entire family can use fewer single-serve  bottles of water and canned drinks, preventing thousands of those single-serve  bottles and cans from ending up in landfills.
relative levels of hardness have been established: the most common treatment for hard water in homes is an ion exchange water softener.
what are the environmentally friendly benefits of soft water?
offers may vary talk to your culligan dealer about the rental options on a  culligan product for your home.
a water softener removes the harsh minerals commonly found in hard water, leaving you with softer, mineral-free water that is much easier and gentler on everything that uses water.
are there harmful effects of water softener discharges on  household septic tanks?
according to the fda, water labeled as “bottled water” cannot contain sweeteners or chemical additives (other than flavors, extracts or essences) and must be calorie-free and sugar-free.
your culligan dealer can give you more details about our 100% satisfaction guarantee.
because water is naturally low in sodium, has no fat, cholesterol or caffeine and isn't flushed straight through the body like many other beverages, it's the natural solution to help reach your body’s daily fluid quota.
a culligan water analysis will help you  understand precisely how hard your water is and which solution will best  address your water needs.
culligan also offers water  treatment solutions for commercial and industrial applications, including  applications from filters and softeners for restaurants and coffee bars to  water treatment for power plants and manufacturing facilities.
reverse osmosis filtration technology is available in the culligan  aqua-cleer® system and point-of-use water coolers.
does installation include such things as a bypass for lawn and garden  faucets, a faucet for unsoftened water or any other features you may need for  your home?
what is the aqua-sensor® technology?
hard water also can build up, causing stains and buildup inside your water appliances, including dishwashers, washing machines, traditional water heaters, and new tankless waterheaters.
relative levels of hardness have been established: soft water - less than 1 gpg slightly hard - 1 to 3.5 gpg moderately hard - 3.5 to 7 gpg hard - 7 to 10.5 gpg very hard - 10.5 and higher gpg
soft water is water that contains few or no dissolved minerals, such as  calcium, magnesium, iron and manganese.
the  regeneration process restores the effectiveness of the resin beads, enabling  the water softener to continue to create soft water.
water naturally becomes hard as it moves over and through the earth to either a reservoir or into an underground aquifer.
your local culligan man can provide a complimentary water analysis to determine the hardness levels in your water, and recommend the best water treatment options for your home.
studies* have shown that water softener regeneration wastes do not interfere with the septic tank system drain field soil percolation, and, actually could improve soil percolation, particularly in fine-textured soils.
culligan’s quadra-hull® tank is one of the strongest water tanks  available on a water softener.
your culligan dealer can give you more details about our 100%  satisfaction guarantee.
you must notify your participating culligan dealer of your decision to return the product no later than 30 days after your date of purchase.
solutions: culligan offers a wide range of state-of-the-art solutions for drinking water, filtered water, soft water and bottled water delivery.
your local culligan  man can recommend a reverse osmosis filtration system for you.
all “bottled water” is regulated by strict guidelines created  by the food and drug administration (fda).
lower emissions – by using fewer single-serve bottles of water and  canned beverages, you help reduce the emissions required to manufacture and  deliver those bottles.
today, culligan proudly holds more than 200 patents worldwide in water treatment , purification and conditioning.
as  water enters the tank, dissolved calcium and magnesium are attracted to the  resin.