you can have the most advanced water filtration system or water purification system in the world that treats tap water, well water, etc.
during the process of removing moisture from the air the air is first filtered then the water is thoroughly filtered and purified without using any chemicals.
traditional water filtration and water purification systems that treat tap water, well water, etc, still require an incoming source of ground water to treat and purify no matter how effective they may perform.
the benefits of making water from air are tremendous  combined with the fact that our atmospheric water makers don't need any  outside source of water to function.
no problem we have the engineering capacity to custom design and buildturn key, large-scale, "water factories " capable of producing tens of thousands (by placing systems in tandem or stacking) or even hundredes of thousands of gallons of fresh purified,filtered drinking water per day!
make environmentally friendly bottled water by using 98.5 %  biodegradable bottles to contain the bottled water, while also producing 99.9%  fresh pure water from air.
why choose i.w.f.a. i.w.f.a .
the international water from air mobile trailer system allows you to bring relief where it's needed when it's needed quickly.
the global fresh drinking water industry is the  fastest growing part of the global economy second only to energy.
freedom and independence from bottled water or ground water supplies.
many people have no idea that the extracting “water from air” technology exists, and most people have no idea how much water is readily available in earth’s atmosphere – there is over 3,100 cubic miles of water, or more than 3.4 quadrillion gallons at any one time in our atmosphere.
we offer a complete line of  first-classindustrial/commercial/residential and office atmospheric water  generators.
our units give you the liberty to harvest the water, filter the  water, and purify the water in one complete system.
because it's always there!
the  water is 99.9% pure delivering a cleaner, safer, healthier source of  drinking water!
the system can be fully powered (making it ideal in locations where demand may be high, but normal grid energy is unreliable at best) usingsolar power and/or wind turbine energy.
we can provide you with a complete automated bottling  plant.
harvesting water from air is one of the most viable and sound solutions presented as the world’s fresh water needs increase daily.
bottled water can be cumbersome, difficult to store, overpriced, and depletes existing ground water sources that are often siphoned off to manufacture the bottled water.
the water factory is here!
normally a baby is  made-up of approximately 75% water, an adult male about 60%, and an adult  female about 55% water.
solar power systems industrial/commercial/residential/officeatmospheric water generators environmentally friendly atmospheric  water generator's harvest, purify, and filter water using a perfect balance and  blend of science and nature!
make environmentally friendly bottled water by using 98.5 % biodegradable bottles to contain the bottled water, while also producing 99.9% fresh pure water from air.
in the event of a national, or local emergency that could disrupt water supplies, or if there is non-existing water supplies, or limited access to water supplies, “water from air,” gives you the freedom to extract, harvest, and generate a sustainable daily supply of fresh water.
by producing water from the moisture in the air, we  do not deplete water from natural resources (existing ground water  supplies).
water and your health.
these vitamins and nutrients increase your mental and physical performance, remove toxins and waste from your body, keep skin healthy and glowing, help in aid with weight loss, reduces headaches, and detoxifies the liver and kidneys.
let us deliver a turn-key fully operational system and you too can get in on one of the fastest growing most financially rewarding businesses available anywhere in the world today!
note: very respectfully, but due to the enormous amount of information that needs to be provided to a potential investor in a bottling plant operation after the initial contact and consultation verification of the ability to capitalize such an endeavor will be required.
the world  desperately needs alternative "water  cultivation" capabilities.
the international water from air atmospheric water  generating system is a literal "water factory"  that replenishes it’s water supplies daily.
also, if you are seriously consdering opening a bottling plant using atmospheric water generators as a long-term investment please see thehow atmospheric water generators work page for additional valuable information that will assist in your decision making process.
we know  how important the availability of clean drinking water is  to health and wellness for people everywhere.
in the event of an  emergency such as a terrorist attack, hurricane, tornado, water  contamination, or something as simple as a broken water main that  could disrupt water supplies; the depletion of existing water supplies  (drought); or there simply is no existing water supplies  available; water from air gives you the freedom to extract, harvest, and  generate a sustainable daily supply without fear or worry of interuption.
one of the most important considerations for using  atmospheric water generators to create bottled water is that there is no depletion of existing ground water supplies or the need for any ground water at all since you will be  harvesting fresh water from air.
for more information and to view our listing  please visitwater from air!
o ur systems are environmentally safe, friendly, and responsible!
our technology allows you  to enter the bottled water market with a tremendously high quality  water that rivals any competitors out there due to our advanced water  filtration systems and water purification systems.
the "water factory" extracts the water through a  sophisticated condensation process and then filters and purifies the water  prior to consumption.
we have the  technology to attach multiple units to a water bottling plant and produce  the highly popular oxygenated "bottled water" for  commercial sale.
the system can be fully powered (making it  ideal in locations where demand may be high, but normal grid energy  is unreliable at best) usingsolar power and/or wind turbine energy.
the "water factory" extracts the water through a sophisticated condensation process and then filters and purifies the water prior to consumption.
traditional water filtration and water  purification systems that treat tap water, well water, etc, still require an  incoming source of ground water to treat and purify no matter how effective  they may perform.
the international water from air mobile  trailer system allows you to bring relief where it's needed when  it's needed quickly.
water from air is a completely sustainable, environmentally friendly source of water that is readily available for you to use everyday.
atmospheric water generators produce water similar to the way rain is made and are the most environmentally friendly water dispensing methods available on the market.
lean muscle tissue contains about 75% water.
units are available with  or without the air conditioning systems depending on your need and application.
atmospheric water generation is an environmentally friendly and "green" alternative water source for any person, business, or other entity wishing to maintain control over the purity and source of their water supply and the quality of their air, while using an electrically efficient system to do so.
if requesting information regarding a mobile unit please specify the size of the unit or approximate size that you are interested in as the prices and spec info is different for each unit and this will assist us better in giving an accurate price quotation.
this creates a never ending continuous supply of fresh water that is  readily available and accessible almost everywhere in the world.
water from air is a completely  sustainable, environmentally friendly source of water that is readily  available for you to use everyday.
we can provide you with a system that will produce  from 60 gallons per day up to 3,200 gallons per day.
the international water from air atmospheric water generating system is a literal "water factory" that replenishes it’s water supplies daily.
our patented water purification systems and  water filtration systems ensure the highest quality fresh water.
this is an intelligent and responsible use of condensated  water with no additives thus maintaining water purity.
the water factory is here!
thehow atmospheric water  generators work page for additional valuable information that will assist in  your decision making process.
these vitamins and nutrients  increase your mental and physical performance, remove toxins and waste from  your body, keep skin healthy and glowing, help in aid with weight loss, reduces  headaches, and detoxifies the liver and kidneys.
we have available two different size systems that can be  configured and made capable of producing up to 3,000 bottles or up to  5,000 per hour.
nature  working together creates highly purified, filtered, and oxygenated water that  tastes great!
we do not  always manufacture or produce cookie cutter models like some of our  competitors.
water from air for your whole  house or building combined with air-conditioning creates a water  making and air quality control system in one complete package!
water is necessary in order for your body to digest foods and absorb vitamins and nutrients.
how atmospheric water generator fresh drinking water  purification systems, and water filtration systems can improve your  quality of  life!    creating very healthy  water
blood contains 95% water, body fat contains 14% water, and bone has 22% water.
atmospheric water generators have numerous applications including the ability to create environmentally friendly bottled water be a pioneer in the exciting and profitable, 30 billion dollar a year and growing, bottled water industry by having your very own environmentally friendly bottled water plant, and bottled water label .
producing thousands of gallons of crystal pure, fresh filtered drinking water  everyday in remote areas, hard to reach places, disaster  areas or army bases.
both functions utilize  a single source of energy making our water machines a totally unique  water harvesting, water filtration, water  purification, air-conditioning, air-dehumidification, and air purification  system contained in one complete package!
the benefits of making water from air are tremendous combined with the fact that our atmospheric water makers don't need any outside source of water to function.
o ur systems are environmentally safe, friendly, and responsible!
water is the essence of life for all  living organisms on our planet.
with i.w.f.a. atmospheric water generating system you can literally go off  the grid when it comes to fresh water and fresh air.
we offer a complete line of first-classindustrial/commercial/residential and office atmospheric water generators.
a complete "self-contained" and "self sufficient water making, water filtration system, and water purification system," which includes an atmospheric water generator, water storage tank, and a power generator that are all installed and securely mounted on a durable trailer for quick and easy mobility from place-to-place.
clean, pure drinking water not available anywhere else!
emergency water  response units and specs..........learn more!
our a.w.g. systems pre-filter and pre-clean the air in order to eliminate much of the unwanted, unhealthy particles prior to chlling the air and collecting the moisture for water purification and filtration.
no problem we have the engineering capacity to  custom design and buildturn key, large-scale, "water factories " capable of producing tens of thousands (by placing systems in  tandem or stacking) or even hundredes of thousands of gallons of  fresh purified,filtered drinking water per day!
fresh water where you need it and when you need it.
all the water is cultivated from moisture in the  air.
fresh water where you need it and when you need  it.
a complete drinking water purification system and water filtration system on wheels.
our mobile a.w.g.  systems can be transported and moved easily from location-to-location,
international water from air l.l.c. industrial/commercial/residential/officeatmospheric water generators environmentally friendly atmospheric water generator's harvest, purify, and filter water using a perfect balance and blend of science and nature!
it is  anticipated by many highly regarded investment firms that the water sector will  grow as much as times the global economy over the next 20 years with the  bottled water industry leading the way!  .
by producing water from the moisture in the air, we do not deplete water from natural resources (existing ground water supplies).
the international water from air l.l.c. mobile water generating system makes it fast and easy!
a complete  "self-contained" and "self sufficient water making, water  filtration system, and water purification system," which includes an  atmospheric water generator, water storage tank, and a power generator that are  all installed and securely mounted on a durable trailer for quick and easy  mobility from place-to-place.
as fresh  water supplies dwindle, ground water is polluted, and bottled water threatens  the environment, the a.w.g. makes available a healthy, more  environmentally friendly, more sustainable water source that fuses  nature and science together in a way never before seen that benefits all  mankind!
filtration systems      why i.w.f.a. water   residential systems how it  works residential systems    faq contact us copyright 2009 .â international  waterâ from airâ l.l.c. all rights reserved.
our a.w.g. systems pre-filter and pre-clean the air  in order to eliminate much of the unwanted, unhealthy particles prior to  chlling the air and collecting the moisture for water purification and  filtration.
for those that want to blaze a path and set a new  standard in the bottled water industry you have the powerto  create the most environmentally friendly bottled water in the  world.
we can provide you with a system that will produce from 60 gallons per day up to 3,200 gallons per day.
our water is evaporated and condensed, and at no time does it  ever have chemicals used to treat it or in it that need to be removed or  reduced like water that comes from a tap, well, lake, river, stream, ocean, etc.
the air is  then both cooled, filtered, purified, and dehumidified.
the a.w.g. system can also come with air conditioning capabilities.
the water is 99.9% pure delivering a cleaner, safer, healthier source of drinking water!
many people have no idea that the extracting  “water from air” technology exists, and most people have no  idea how much water is readily available in earth’s atmosphere  – there is over 3,100 cubic miles of water, or more than 3.4 quadrillion  gallons at any one time in our atmosphere.
our unique combination ofwater harvesting, water filtration , and water purification systems will allow you the freedom to become completely self-sufficient and independent of any need for municipal water sources, well water, or other outside water sources, while delivering the absolute best tasting water you've ever had!
consideration of your average air temperature, relative  humidity, longitude, latitude, and specific application is evaluated before  production begins.
our units give you the liberty to harvest the water, filter the water, and purify the water in one complete system.
our complete water generating,water purification, water filtration, air-conditioning, air-quality control systems will allow you to enjoy great tasting fresh water while creating a perfect indoor environment as it produces fresh, clean high quality air for breathing.
our systems manufacture the water, filter the water, and purify the water in one complete package.
greater energy efficiency by using the international water from air water factory.
also, if you  are seriously consdering opening a bottling plant using atmospheric water  generators as a long-term investment please see
the air to water technology along with our advanced water filtration and water purification system not only creates great tasting drinking water but can also serve as air conditioning, dehumidification, and air purification; a complete air quality control package in addition to manufacturing clean, fresh drinking water.
but no matter how good, efficient, or effective that system may be they all require an existing incoming source of readily available water to treat and purify.
water is necessary in order for your body  to digest foods and absorb vitamins and nutrients.
the result of this blend of science and nature working together creates highly purified, filtered, and oxygenated water that tastes great!
however, unlike tap water or bottled water there is a distinct difference.
in the event of an emergency such as a terrorist attack, hurricane, tornado, water contamination, or something as simple as a broken water main that could disrupt water supplies; the depletion of existing water supplies (drought); or there simply is no existing water supplies available; water from air gives you the freedom to extract, harvest, and generate a sustainable daily supply without fear or worry of interuption.
our systems produce water and condition air simultaneously.
introducing the "water  factorytm."
the air to  water technology along with our advanced water filtration and water  purification system not only creates great tasting drinking water but can also  serve as air conditioning, dehumidification, and air purification; a  complete air quality control package in addition to  manufacturing clean, fresh drinking water.
with our  "water factories" you have the ability to create a sustainable  readily available limitless source of water daily....all you need is air!
with our "water factories" you have the ability to create a sustainable readily available limitless source of water daily....all you need is air!
however, unlike tap water or bottled water there is a distinct  difference.
our systems manufacture the  water, filter the water, and purify the water in one complete package.
the result of this blend of science and
we have the technology to attach multiple units to a water bottling plant and produce the highly popular oxygenated "bottled water" for commercial sale.
introducing the "water factorytm."
a significant portion of our bodies are made up of water.
for more information and to view our listing please visitwater from air!
filtration systems why i.w.f.a. water residential systems how it works residential systems faq contact us
all the water is cultivated from moisture in the air.
units are available with or without the air conditioning systems depending on your need and application.
our technology allows you to enter the bottled water market with a tremendously high quality water that rivals any competitors out there due to our advanced water filtration systems and water purification systems.
with little effort you can easily disconnect the mobile unit from the water storage tank and move it with ease and efficiency to provide fresh safe drinking water when and where you need it the most.
the exceptional technology removes all inorganic materials, undesirable odors, particulate matter as small as .01 microns, and all forms of bacteria, metals, minerals, viruses and other elements that might pose any kind of health risk.
the average tds (total disolvable solids) for our systems is 5.
it is anticipated by many highly regarded investment firms that the water sector will grow as much as times the global economy over the next 20 years with the bottled water industry leading the way! .
the hydrologic cycle ensures  that billions of gallons of water are evaporating into the atmosphere,  condensating and then precipitating out of the air every day.
our systems are also great for agricultural use as the systems can be  designed solely for manufacturing non-potable water for crops.
this creates a never ending continuous supply of fresh water that is readily available and accessible almost everywhere in the world.
atmospheric water generation is an environmentally friendly and  "green" alternative water source for any person, business, or  other entity wishing to maintain control over the purity and source of their  water supply and the quality of their air, while using an electrically  efficient system to do so.
the water factory atmospheric water generatoring technology pulls moisture out of the  ambient air (water from air) similar to that of a dehumidifier and turns it  into 99.9% clean drinking water.
if  requesting information regarding a mobile unit please specify the size of the  unit or approximate size that you are interested in as the prices and spec info  is different for each unit and this will assist us better in giving an  accurate price quotation.
both functions utilize a single source of energy making our water machines a totally unique water harvesting, water filtration, water purification, air-conditioning, air-dehumidification, and air purification system contained in one complete package!
you can make the water and system even more environmentally friendly and do away with the of use standard grid energy.
here are just a few of the benefits of using the  international water from air atmospheric water generator freedom and independence from bottled water or  ground water supplies.
tweet "making  water from air......
it  can be used solely for agriculture in which the use of our sophisticated water  purification and water filtration methods aren't  necessary.
the air is purified during this process as it passes through an electrostatic filter which effectively removes dust, pollen, mold spores, bacteria, and other airborne particulates the water generator can also successfully serve as centralized air filtration and air purification.
after careful evaluation of  pertinent information  each model is individually built to suite your particular need, and  location.
during the process of removing  moisture from the air the air is first filtered then the water is  thoroughly filtered and purified without using any chemicals.
atmospheric water generators have numerous applications including  the ability to create environmentally friendly bottled water be a pioneer in the exciting and profitable, 30 billion dollar a  year and growing, bottled water industry by having your very  own environmentally friendly bottled water plant, and bottled water label .
the units can also be used on a 24 hr basis to produce fresh water for storage tanks, and when filled they are ready to be moved to a the next location of your choice.
nevertheless, when clean drinking water is essential  the water created by the a.w.g. goes through both uv light, and/or  ozone water purification techniques in addition to the multi-step  patented carbon water filtration system to produce 99% pure drinking  water.
in  the event of a national, or local emergency that could disrupt water supplies,  or if there is non-existing water supplies, or limited access to water  supplies, “water from air,” gives you the freedom to extract,  harvest, and generate a sustainable daily supply of fresh water.
our atmospheric water generating machines can  be custom made to fit your specific need and application.
our unique  combination ofwater harvesting, water filtration , and water purification systems will allow you the  freedom to become completely self-sufficient and independent of any need for  municipal water sources, well water, or other outside water sources, while  delivering the absolute best tasting water you've ever had!
blood contains 95% water,  body fat contains 14% water, and bone has 22% water.
do you have a special need or  requirement?
consideration of your average air temperature, relative humidity, longitude, latitude, and specific application is evaluated before production begins.
we also make systems available without water filtration and water purification if your needs doesn't require potable water.
one of the most important considerations for using atmospheric water generators to create bottled water is that there is no depletion of existing ground water supplies or the need for any ground water at all since you will be harvesting fresh water from air.
atmospheric water generators produce water similar to the way rain is made  and are the most environmentally friendly water  dispensing methods available on the market.
our complete  water generating,water purification, water filtration, air-conditioning,  air-quality control systems will allow you to enjoy great tasting fresh water  while creating a perfect indoor environment as it produces fresh,  clean high quality air for breathing.
the exceptional technology removes all inorganic  materials, undesirable odors, particulate matter as small as .01  microns, and all forms of bacteria, metals, minerals, viruses and other  elements that might pose any kind of health risk.
a complete drinking water  purification system and water filtration system on wheels.
we can provide you with a complete automated bottling plant.
water plays a major role in determining the quality of your overall health.
note: very respectfully, but due to the enormous amount of  information that needs to be provided to a potential investor in a bottling  plant operation after the initial contact and consultation verification of  the ability to capitalize such an endeavor will be required.
after careful evaluation of pertinent information each model is individually built to suite your particular need, and location.
harvesting water from air is one of  the most viable and sound solutions presented as the world’s  fresh water needs increase daily.
" atmospheric water generators use some of the most advanced drinking water  purification systems and water filtration systems in the world atmospheric water generating systems harvest fresh great tasting water from air.
the revolutionary technology makes  available the ability to help meet, and fill the growing and and at times  overwhelming demand for sustainalbe, economincal, and safe great tasting  drinking water in an evironmentally responsible way.
the global fresh drinking water industry is the fastest growing part of the global economy second only to energy.
the hydrologic cycle ensures that billions of gallons of water are evaporating into the atmosphere, condensating and then precipitating out of the air every day.
the average tds (total  disolvable solids) for our systems is 5.
let us deliver a turn-key fully operational system and you too can get  in on one of the fastest growing most financially rewarding businesses  available anywhere in the world today!
greater energy efficiency by using the international water  from air water factory.
we know how important the availability of clean drinking water is to health and wellness for people everywhere.
the air is then both cooled, filtered, purified, and dehumidified.
bottled water can be cumbersome, difficult to  store, overpriced, and depletes existing ground water sources that are often  siphoned off to manufacture the bottled water.
each plant is fully automated and will generate the  water, blow mold the bottles, rinse, fill, cap, label, and package the bottled  water for resale.
water plays a major role in determining the quality  of your overall health.
water from air rivals any water on the market today on quality and purity.
tweet "making water from air......
we do not always manufacture or produce cookie cutter models like some of our competitors.
" atmospheric water generators use some of the most advanced drinking water purification systems and water filtration systems in the world atmospheric water generating systems harvest fresh great tasting water from air.
we have available two different size systems that can be configured and made capable of producing up to 3,000 bottles or up to 5,000 per hour.
the multi-step air-water filtration,water purification system process allows you to continually produce purified, fresh filtered, crystal clear water thatcontains no undesirable chemicals , pollutants, contaminants, additives, or unpleasant odors.
we also make systems available without water filtration and  water purification if your needs doesn't require potable water.
the units can  also be used on a 24 hr basis to produce fresh water for storage tanks, and  when filled they are ready to be moved to a the next location of your choice.
the international water from air l.l.c. mobile  water generating system makes it fast and easy!
the atmospheric water  generator is an environmentally safe source of sustainable water.
you can make the water and system even more  environmentally friendly and do away with the of use standard grid  energy.
with i.w.f.a. atmospheric water generating system you can literally go off the grid when it comes to fresh water and fresh air.
water from air for your whole house or building combined with air-conditioning creates a water making and air quality control system in one complete package!
with little effort you can easily disconnect the mobile unit from the  water storage tank and move it with ease and efficiency to provide  fresh safe drinking water when and where you need it the most.
water from air rivals any water on the market today on  quality and purity.
nevertheless, when clean drinking water is essential the water created by the a.w.g. goes through both uv light, and/or ozone water purification techniques in addition to the multi-step patented carbon water filtration system to produce 99% pure drinking water.
our systems produce water  and condition air simultaneously.
water is the essence of life for all living organisms on our planet.
our systems are also great for agricultural use as the systems can be designed solely for manufacturing non-potable water for crops.
incorporate our systems with solar or wind turbine energy and you have created a completely off the grid sustainable, source of energy, water and conditioned air!
for a list of competent and reliable product and service providers in your area visit thumbtack online!
the air is purified during this process as it passes through an electrostatic filter which effectively  removes dust, pollen, mold spores, bacteria, and other airborne particulates  the water generator can also successfully serve as centralized air filtration  and air purification.
the water factory atmospheric water generatoring technology pulls moisture out of the ambient air (water from air) similar to that of a dehumidifier and turns it into 99.9% clean drinking water.
normally a baby is made-up of approximately 75% water, an adult male about 60%, and an adult female about 55% water.
the world desperately needs alternative "water cultivation" capabilities.
each plant is fully automated and will generate the water, blow mold the bottles, rinse, fill, cap, label, and package the bottled water for resale.
you can have the most advanced  water filtration system or water purification system in the world that treats  tap water, well water, etc.  but no matter how good, efficient, or  effective that system may be they all require an existing  incoming source of readily available water to treat and purify.
the atmospheric water generator is an environmentally safe source of sustainable water.
as fresh water supplies dwindle, ground water is polluted, and bottled water threatens the environment, the a.w.g. makes available a healthy, more environmentally friendly, more sustainable water source that fuses nature and science together in a way never before seen that benefits all mankind!
our atmospheric water generating machines can be custom made to fit your specific need and application.
do you have a special need or requirement?
incorporate our systems with  solar or wind turbine energy and you have created a completely off the grid  sustainable, source of energy, water and conditioned air!
for  a list of competent and reliable product and service providers in your area  visit thumbtack online!
our mobile a.w.g. systems can be transported and moved easily from location-to-location, producing thousands of gallons of crystal pure, fresh filtered drinking water everyday in remote areas, hard to reach places, disaster areas or army bases.
our water is evaporated and condensed, and at no time does it ever have chemicals used to treat it or in it that need to be removed or reduced like water that comes from a tap, well, lake, river, stream, ocean, etc.
the revolutionary technology makes available the ability to help meet, and fill the growing and and at times overwhelming demand for sustainalbe, economincal, and safe great tasting drinking water in an evironmentally responsible way.
the a.w.g.  system can also come with air conditioning capabilities.
emergency water response units and specs..........learn more!
it can be used solely for agriculture in which the use of our sophisticated water purification and water filtration methods aren't necessary.
the multi-step air-water filtration,water  purification system process allows you to  continually produce purified, fresh filtered, crystal clear  water thatcontains no undesirable chemicals , pollutants, contaminants, additives, or unpleasant odors.
for those that want to blaze a path and set a new standard in the bottled water industry you have the powerto create the most environmentally friendly bottled water in the world.
this is an intelligent and responsible use of condensated water with no additives thus maintaining water purity.
our patented water purification systems and water filtration systems ensure the highest quality fresh water.
a significant portion of our bodies are made up of  water.