if grown from a... popularity: 25   •   tools:   recategorize what are the uses of epsom salt?
you can repot it and get away with the dirt being 1 inch higher than... popularity: 26 • tools: recategorize bamboo is an attractive house plant.
the function of the prop root is achor the plant to the ground & absorb  water popularity: 29   •   tools:   recategorize how to eliminate mites on house plants?
popularity: 63   •   tools:   recategorize should you cut down your winter iris leaves or should  you let the leaves die back as you do with daffodils?
popularity: 32   •   tools:   recategorize is an amaryllis a annual or a perennial?
popularity: 33 • tools: recategorize a couple of tablespoons in the bucket will work fine
popularity: 103   •   tools:   recategorize what is an indigenous flower?
but the water may be lacking some of its natural  minerals.
popularity: 46   •   tools:   recategorize what happened when violet seeds fall into soft soil?
tools: recategorize a necessary first step is growing bonsai (or undertaking any endeavor) is research.
sugar water i think a 1 to 3 thing like... 1 cup of sugar for every 3 cups  of water... and if you have any animals their... popularity: 38   •   tools:   recategorize does an indoor bamboo plant need direct sunlight?
popularity: 103 • tools: recategorize rather than give you a scientific botanical answer, here's a simple one related to human beings that helps to describe this kind...
many people ask, "will the chlorine... popularity: 24   •   tools:   recategorize
tools: recategorize never add icy cold water to an orchid plant.
tools: recategorize from the book extraordinary uses for ordinary thingsget rid of raccoons are the masked night marauders poking around your trash... popularity: 25 •
popularity: 34 • tools: recategorize answerone day i was walking then suddenly my headphones got stuck in a cactus, and while i was trying to get them out, the...
for more details and information, please see related link below.
how do you get a christmas cactus to bloom?
popularity: 24 • tools: recategorize full sun to partial shade.
23:24 cheryl mchugh [0] added how many garden shops in us by regions tohouseplants 10 feb 2012 23:21 id1354259998 asked what are the adaptations in a cactus and said it was different fromwhat are the adaptations of a cactus 10 feb 2012 16:46 in general, sunlight is better for plant growth as it is intense and contains the full spectrum of electromagnetic radiation...
mites on plants: wipe them down with diluted alcohol once a week.
the need of those two things is... popularity: 25 • tools: recategorize wait until spring then cut the truck about a foot or so above the soil level and it will sprout some new growth's within a couple...
how can you stop a ficus tree from releasing a sticky  film on the floor?
determine where the halfway mark... popularity: 38 • tools: recategorize growing plants without sunlight is possible using "grow lights" to replace sunlight.
it grows fine in the worst dirt you can find, better dirt better plant.
how often to water plants--too vague a q not every plant is the same, so  this question should include the type of plant, its... popularity: 59   •   tools:   recategorize
popularity: 47   •   tools:   recategorize names of plants that grow without soil?
no, because the lamp does not produce the type of light and heat energy  like the sun produces and the plant can not perform its... popularity: 26   •   tools:   recategorize
i... popularity: 40 • tools: recategorize filtered water is better for plants as it removes the chlorine and chloromides that are harmfull to the living cells of the...
another answer baking soda, sodium bicarbonate, is used to... popularity: 30 • tools: recategorize there are several types of attachments depending on the manufactuer some of the common ones: three screws spaced (120 degrees...
popularity: 24   •   tools:   recategorize can you water potted plants with swimming pool water?
late winter/early spring, before the buds start to put out new growth is  the best time.
popularity: 30   •   tools:   recategorize is baking soda good for plant growth?
popularity: 29   •   tools:   recategorize what is the function of prop root?
it takes a couple of years to...
popularity: 30 • tools: recategorize have you trimmed it back lately?
tools: recategorize you might get better blooming with osmocote, peter's, or jacks fertilizer.
and i got sun burn and  my mom went outside and got a peice of an aloe vera...
the angle of the sun prompts the budding.
the less light the seed has will either make the seed take  longer to germinate or not germinate at all.
the plant would die it will kill the plant's roots.
popularity: 60 • tools: recategorize
popularity: 24 • tools: recategorize lucky bamboo is not bamboo at all, it's a member of the lily family that grows in the tropical rainforests of southeast asia and...
cam popularity: 98   •   tools:   recategorize
total questions 9000\ lazarus (supervisor)
try as much as possible...
it's a... popularity: 37 •
tools: recategorize - gardenias must be grown outside where there is sufficient humidity air circulation, and light.
popularity: 57 • tools: recategorize planting flower bulbs in pots inside summer bulbs can be planted inside.
yes it is safe unless you or your partner have allergies.
popularity: 23 • tools: recategorize i am not sure if this is what you're looking for, but here's the latin name and family i found for parrot's bill-
how are all plants the same?
popularity: 99 • tools: recategorize
--- just remember that they require high light and sandy soil.
popularity: 51   •   tools:   recategorize why do plants grow better in soil than sand?
cam popularity: 98 • tools: recategorize the speed of this depends on ph, temperature and volume of water.
popularity: 24 • tools: recategorize helianthus annuus.
spray the perimeter and between the rows and no more... popularity: 22 •
another  answer baking soda, sodium bicarbonate, is used to... popularity: 30   •   tools:   recategorize
sunflower - helianthus annuus - the garden favourite not  only looks good, but is increasingly being grown as... popularity: 24   •   tools:   recategorize
plants become "leggy" when they are allowed to grow too long without being clipped.
i have given an informative link...
many people are  using silk plants (look very real) for decoration more...
how often do you water an orchid?
if you own the airplane you can, but it would still be illegal under us  federal law, and under most state laws.
i just got a new  variety, can't wait.
answer to second answer.
popularity: 25 • tools: recategorize yes it does.
soil grows better plants soil holds nutrients that plants need a lot better  than sand or clay.
entry bench, foyer furniture, coat racks, hall stand, coat valets and hat  racks.
this will force it to... popularity: 41   •   tools:   recategorize can a plant grow if watered with milk?
some mosses and liverworts can grow on moist rocks and on tree stems.
many people are using silk plants (look very real) for decoration more... popularity: 29 • tools: recategorize joe pye weed is the common name for a road side perennial, whose botonical name if eupatorium.
bleach formula for miracle gro in house plants?
that's was a guess so... :(
it can be found in lightening and when you rub fur against a metal rod.
popularity: 26   •   tools:   recategorize will lye soap control aphids on house plants?
yes because the seed uses the water to grow and you can't make the plant  back into a seed.
the less light the seed has will either make the seed take longer to germinate or not germinate at all.
in general, sunlight is better for plant growth as it is intense and  contains the full spectrum of electromagnetic radiation...
plants become "leggy" when they  are allowed to grow too long without being clipped.
a  bonsai is simply a miniature version of a tree, which... popularity: 22   •   tools:   recategorize can you put cayenne pepper on your plants to keep  cats and dogs away?
you could have any one of a number of plants.
an amaryllis, the flower we commonly see in november and december, will  continue to come back every year over several years if it...
popularity: 29 • tools: recategorize mites on plants: wipe them down with diluted alcohol once a week.
all plants have the ability to photosynthesize, or create their own food  using light and water.
i did a science fair project on it and they do help us they are also useful to plants!
popularity: 29 • tools: recategorize the function of the prop root is achor the plant to the ground & absorb water
how do you make a bonsai?
popularity: 31 • tools: recategorize leaf tips may turn brown due to too little humidity.
popularity: 108   •   tools:   recategorize
that's called a "cutting" or "cloning".
according to the vinegar institue, use equal parts of distilled white...
when they are seedlings, a small pot is fine.
but, you can  certainly use the pebbles in the bottom of the pots, to... popularity: 74   •   tools:   recategorize is potpourri safe for children?
leaf tips may turn brown due to too little humidity.
a bonsai is simply a miniature version of a tree, which... popularity: 22 •
see... popularity: 43   •   tools:   recategorize can you use water from a dehumidifier to water house  plants?
to raise the... popularity: 57   •   tools:   recategorize can you plant flower bulbs in pots inside or do they  have to go in the ground?
today there are many homes that have swimming pools as well as municipal  pools in the cities.
if you're asking what to give a succulent plant to "eat" then any  fertilizer will do.
how do you grow bougainvillas?
planting flower bulbs in pots inside summer bulbs can be planted inside.
popularity: 26   •   tools:   recategorize what causes the leaves of tomato plants to turn  yellow?
hostas, hostas hostas.
growing plants without sunlight is possible using "grow lights"  to replace sunlight.
the plant usually referred to as a primrose is a simple, flat, pale yellow  bloom with a darker marking around the center.
tools: recategorize all or most types of galápagos finches do.
popularity: 32 • tools: recategorize an amaryllis, the flower we commonly see in november and december, will continue to come back every year over several years if it...
popularity: 108 • tools: recategorize a simple insecticidal soap will get rid of the fungus gnats without harming the basil.
popularity: 59 • tools: recategorize how often to water plants--too vague a q not every plant is the same, so this question should include the type of plant, its... popularity: 59 •
of liquid castile soap, 1... popularity: 107   •   tools:   recategorize what kills plants the fastest bleach or vinegar?
it may... popularity: 30 • tools: recategorize first, find the ideal location, which is preferably the northern side of the house.
how do you remove cactus thorns?
popularity: 71   •   tools:   recategorize
where you live and what type of soil you have makes a big difference.
how should you raise the ph level of a poinsettia  plant?
but when they get bigger, they will need more room to grow.
answer it... popularity: 25 • tools: recategorize entry bench, foyer furniture, coat racks, hall stand, coat valets and hat racks.
shortly, sweetly & very simply yes.
only use warm or tepid water.
if you must make spikes, i use uncooked spaghetti or plastic...
nice buds, tangerine.... popularity: 24 • tools: recategorize
of liquid castile soap, 1... popularity: 107 • tools:
the spikes of a cactus prevents a herbivore from eating it as well prevents  water loss through transpiration.
popularity: 70 • tools: recategorize no.
tools: recategorize pinch back to a lower set of leaves.
popularity: 102 • tools: recategorize according to this website,yes: http://www.aspca.org/pet-care/poison-control/plants/cyclamen.html popularity: 100 • tools: recategorize plants wilt when water and nutrients from the roots can't reach the leaves to supply the raw materials for photosynthesis.
when backwashing a salt water pool will the water  kill plants and flowers?
some form of sunlight is needed to provide...
have you trimmed it back lately?
popularity: 39   •   tools:   recategorize
how much vinegar do you put in with water to clean  windows?
from the book extraordinary uses for ordinary thingsget rid of raccoons are  the masked night marauders poking around your trash... popularity: 25   •   tools:   recategorize
how do you take care of potted fern?
how can you get a spindly 12-inch tall sensitive  plant to be more bushy?
tools: recategorize mint is a play so forever?
it may... popularity: 30   •   tools:   recategorize
should shift the little blighters...
if they are very little no but don't use those crystal elements those  definitely look like candy i mean i'm 15
it is a relatively slow-grower,  though, and patience is an absolute must.
answer a bonsai tree is one where you train it with wires to...
how do you get the cover off a globe ceiling light to  change the bulb inside?
popularity: 0 • tools: recategorize international sites english deutsch español français italiano tagalogcopyright © 2012 answers corporation
how often should you water plants?
popularity: 24   •   tools:   recategorize what causes a plant to droop?
the people who've tried  it, that is, people who grow from oats to orchids, have... popularity: 23   •   tools:   recategorize
popularity: 34   •   tools:   recategorize
how do you stop cats from going bathroom in potted  plants?
popularity: 26 • tools: recategorize
popularity: 60   •   tools:   recategorize
i think you should conduct your own experiment and research and form your  own conclusions.
popularity: 26   •   tools:   recategorize
first, find the ideal location, which is preferably the northern side of  the house.
it's a... popularity: 37   •   tools:   recategorize do plants grow faster in light or dark?
then the sun shines down on the plant giving the leaves oxygen and... popularity: 25 • tools: recategorize that's called a "cutting" or "cloning".
see... popularity: 43 • tools: recategorize it wont hurt the plants.
for dogs, try using vinegar in a spray bottle.
- gardenias must be grown outside where there is sufficient humidity air  circulation, and light.
the corpse flower what is the structure that ferns produce spores?
popularity: 31   •   tools:   recategorize
yes, but it might not work.
but the water may be lacking some of its natural minerals.
regardless if it touches the plant or not.
clay is hard, so it makes it... popularity: 47   •   tools:   recategorize can a norfolk island pine be used as a bonsai plant?
bulbs are planted in the fall, placed in small pots,... popularity: 53   •   tools:   recategorize function of the plant embryo?
but don't use those crystal elements those definitely look like candy
if you're asking what is the best food from...
popularity: 35   •   tools:   recategorize what is a bonsai tree?
dumbcane and rubber plants are also toxic.
i just got a new variety, can't wait.
and i thought they...
never add icy cold water to an orchid plant.
roots are in earth,  which is usually a steady 55 degrees f. and hot water...
popularity: 92   •   tools:   recategorize do plants grow better in different light?
answer a  bonsai tree is one where you train it with wires to...
for more details, check out my favorite site on gardening!
there are specific species of plants that are best suited for either sun or  shade.
the northern side of any home is cooler and...
popularity: 25   •   tools:   recategorize where does the water travel through a plant?
how do you trim roots on a deciduous bonsai tree?
full sun to partial shade.
see  below- popularity: 92   •   tools:   recategorize what is the stinkiest flower in the rainforest?
popularity: 190 • tools: recategorize generally you need to water it when the soil starts to feel dry, otherwise you might rot the roots.
popularity: 34 • tools: recategorize well first of all is your cat an outside or ever was an outside cat?if there used to going outside they'll look for that same...
nice buds, tangerine.... popularity: 24   •   tools:   recategorize what is the best succulent plant food?
why do the ends of the house plant leaves turn brown?
this will force it to... popularity: 41 •
a couple of tablespoons in the bucket will work fine
tools: recategorize soil grows better plants soil holds nutrients that plants need a lot better than sand or clay.
tools: recategorize try filling a spray bottle with water mixed with washing up liquid and spraying on the plant.
how do you care for an ivy plant?
if grown from a... popularity: 25 •
popularity: 26   •   tools:   recategorize can olive trees be grown and fruit from self seeded  plants from an established olive tree?
popularity: 35 • tools: recategorize for more details and information, please see related link below.
popularity: 30   •   tools:   recategorize what would cause a plant to grow skinny stems?
well first of all is your cat an outside or ever was an outside cat?if  there used to going outside they'll look for that same...
popularity: 24   •   tools:   recategorize what is the scientific name for a sunflower?
popularity: 33   •   tools:   recategorize can bean seeds grow faster in a small pot with a lot  of space or with less space?
electricity has been on earth since the beginning of time.
there are many... popularity: 44   •   tools:   recategorize what does a primrose flower look like?
bamboo is an attractive house plant.
i did a science fair project on it and they do help us they  are also useful to plants!
popularity: 33   •   tools:   recategorize
lucky bamboo is not bamboo at all, it's a member of the lily family that  grows in the tropical rainforests of southeast asia and...
sunflower - helianthus annuus - the garden favourite not only looks good, but is increasingly being grown as...
wait until spring then cut the truck about a foot or so above the soil  level and it will sprout some new growth's within a couple... popularity: 25   •   tools:   recategorize does the amount of light a seed is exposed to affect  seed germination?
popularity: 24 • tools: recategorize
popularity: 104   •   tools:   recategorize is zucchini flower edible?
it can be found  in lightening and when you rub fur against a metal rod.
how much sunlight does a tiger lily need?
growing an entire new plant from part of the original  plant is called?
you just have to trim them every end or beginning of  the winter and let them do the rest.
"i've recommended it to just about everybody.
tools: recategorize "i've recommended it to just about everybody.
keep tulips out of sunlight and away from drafts and heat.
recategorize bleach popularity: 107 •
popularity: 78   •   tools:   recategorize can you use river pebbles for a house plant?
answer it... popularity: 25   •   tools:   recategorize what is another name for hall tree?
popularity: 59   •   tools:   recategorize
it is a relatively slow-grower, though, and patience is an absolute must.
the need of those two things is... popularity: 25   •   tools:   recategorize
a necessary first step is growing bonsai (or undertaking any endeavor) is  research.
plants wilt when water and nutrients from the roots can't reach the leaves  to supply the raw materials for photosynthesis.
how often do you water wheatgrass?
but when they get bigger,  they will need more room to grow.
if you  must make spikes, i use uncooked spaghetti or plastic...
yes, it can, and fairly easily, too!
you will need knowledge of repotting and...
there are specific species of plants that are best suited for either sun or shade.
how do you restart a massangeana or corn plant it has  only a few leaves at very top and just a tall stem otherwise?
answerfirst of all, the term "ivy" is very common.
a simple insecticidal soap will get rid of the fungus gnats without harming  the basil.
i can tell you from personal experience that african violets will die if  watered with milk thanks to my 10 year old niece.
popularity: 30   •   tools:   recategorize is it safe to put a plant inside a bedroom?
joe pye weed is the common name for a road side perennial, whose botonical  name if eupatorium.
two  broad groups of plants live on other plants with out... popularity: 47   •   tools:   recategorize do tulips do well indoors do they need lots of  sunlight?
spray the perimeter and between the rows and no more...
the lucky bamboo plant doesn't need a significant amount of direct sunlight  but does prefer plenty of indirect sunlight.
from a pure... popularity: 37 • tools: recategorize
popularity: 27 • tools: recategorize you can use vinegar to spray the soil and cats will not bother it.
first of all, many kinds of trees and shrubs can be made into a bonsai.
popularity: 25   •   tools:   recategorize what type of soil do aloe vera plants need to grow?
when repotting a norfolk island pine can you pot the  trunk deeper than just the roots?
popularity: 62   •   tools:   recategorize
popularity: 24 • tools: recategorize put it outside.
clay is hard, so it makes it... popularity: 47 • tools: recategorize
water travels through the roots and throughout the leaves.
how do plants grow without sunlight?
popularity: 26 • tools: recategorize no, because the lamp does not produce the type of light and heat energy like the sun produces and the plant can not perform its... popularity: 26 •
pinch back to a lower set of leaves.
popularity: 25 • tools: recategorize it grows fine in the worst dirt you can find, better dirt better plant.
softwood is just normal wood from a tree, but it's only wood from certain  types of trees.
poinsettia and oleander and the seeds of a cardboard palm tree are toxic to  mammals.
olives grow very readily from seed, so much so that they are a serious  problem in some areas such as australia.
popularity: 25 • tools: recategorize water travels through the roots and throughout the leaves.
yes, because the plant would grow faster and it will be healthy!!!
if you're asking what to give a succulent plant to "eat" then any fertilizer will do.
regular incandescent lighting is the least...
no, some trees will die if planted deeper than the roots.
popularity: 47 • tools: recategorize some mosses and liverworts can grow on moist rocks and on tree stems.
popularity: 63 • tools: recategorize i have a couple types of iris plants and i either cut them back as they start to die in the fall or just wait and mow them over... popularity: 62 •
is orchid a flowering plant?
i am not sure if this is what you're looking for, but here's the latin name  and family i found for parrot's bill- there is... popularity: 23   •   tools:   recategorize does aspirin affect plant growth?
you can use vinegar to spray the soil and cats will not bother it.
a couple of links are provided to get the...
how do you prune a yucca plant?
how long has mint been around?
popularity: 22   •   tools:   recategorize
tools: recategorize answerfirst of all, the term "ivy" is very common.
popularity: 0   •   tools:  recategorize [first page] 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 next > click here to browse the new [ houseplants  questions] or [ all unanswered houseplants questions].
put a clean, white piece of paper on  the floor, shake the branches above the paper then look... popularity: 70   •   tools:   recategorize
according to this website,yes:  http://www.aspca.org/pet-care/poison-control/plants/cyclamen.html popularity: 100   •   tools:   recategorize what is the meaning of wilt?
you might get better blooming with osmocote, peter's, or jacks fertilizer.
they will most likely germinate and start new plants popularity: 46   •   tools:   recategorize what are the best plants and flowers to plant in a  small yard in a climate with cold winters?
many people ask, "will the chlorine... popularity: 24 •
the flower of zucchini and other summer squash are quite edible and have  become regular fare in mexico and other third world...
two broad groups of plants live on other plants with out... popularity: 47 •
because the seed uses the water to grow and you can't make the plant back into a seed.
the... popularity: 99   •   tools:   recategorize what are the spikes on the cacti used for?
i... popularity: 40   •   tools:   recategorize do plants grow better with tap water or filtered  water?
best place is two sets of leaves above  an already existing branching.
all unanswered questions | new questions | new  answers [first page] 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 next > [ last  houseplants page] do plants grow better under sunlight or artificial light?
the people who've tried it, that is, people who grow from oats to orchids, have... popularity: 23 •
popularity: 33 • tools: recategorize when they are seedlings, a small pot is fine.
popularity: 78 • tools: recategorize most houseplants need to be planted in a good potting soil.
you just have to trim them every end or beginning of the winter and let them do the rest.
popularity: 27 • tools: recategorize electricity has been on earth since the beginning of time.
according to the  vinegar institue, use equal parts of distilled white...
popularity: 38   •   tools:   recategorize what household products can be used as plant  fertilizers?
popularity: 26   •   tools:   recategorize will your house plant grow with heat from a lamp?
other possible  problems are too much or too little water, too much or too... popularity: 30   •   tools:   recategorize what plants are unsafe for pets?
popularity: 25   •   tools:   recategorize
there are many... popularity: 44 • tools: recategorize the plant usually referred to as a primrose is a simple, flat, pale yellow bloom with a darker marking around the center.
tools: recategorize the corpse flower popularity: 90 •
ficus trees check for spider-mites.
popularity: 38 • tools: recategorize sugar water i think a 1 to 3 thing like... 1 cup of sugar for every 3 cups of water... and if you have any animals their... popularity: 38 • tools: recategorize the lucky bamboo plant doesn't need a significant amount of direct sunlight but does prefer plenty of indirect sunlight.
there are many house plants that...
tools: recategorize late winter/early spring, before the buds start to put out new growth is the best time.
plants require light for photosynthesis, so it is impossible for plants to  increase in dry biomass without any light.
popularity: 71 • tools: recategorize ficus trees check for spider-mites.
popularity: 35   •   tools:   recategorize do vitamins help a plant grow?
bulbs are planted in the fall, placed in small pots,... popularity: 53 • tools: recategorize
but, you can certainly use the pebbles in the bottom of the pots, to... popularity: 74 • tools: recategorize if they are very little no
where can i find spikes to place in pot plants to  keep cats out?
generally you need to water it when the soil starts to feel dry, otherwise  you might rot the roots.
the  most important thing is light exposure.
try filling a spray bottle with water mixed with washing up liquid and  spraying on the plant.
today there are many homes that have swimming pools as well as municipal pools in the cities.
all or most types of galápagos finches do.
you could have  any one of a number of plants.
ok, the answer is yes, depending on what plants you are talking about, if  you are talking about epsom salts that is a good thing...
from a pure... popularity: 37   •   tools:   recategorize do plants grow faster with or without sun?
rather than give you a scientific botanical answer, here's a simple one  related to human beings that helps to describe this kind...
the major factor in successfully growing bougainvilleas is to provide them  with a warm, sunny position.
popularity: 25 • tools: recategorize all plants have the ability to photosynthesize, or create their own food using light and water.
be certain to not...
popularity: 23   •   tools:   recategorize what is the genus of the flower called parrots bill?
popularity: 27   •   tools:   recategorize what is electricity's origin?
popularity: 39 • tools: recategorize when your yucca plant becomes too tall for the space, it is in, gently remove it from the pot.
tools: recategorize sorus containing several sporangia.
tools: recategorize where you live and what type of soil you have makes a big difference.
popularity: 46 • tools: recategorize they will most likely germinate and start new plants popularity: 46 • tools: recategorize hostas, hostas hostas.
popularity: 58   •   tools:   recategorize
popularity: 30 • tools: recategorize yes, because the plant would grow faster and it will be healthy!!!
mites  hate moisture, don't allow plants to stay dry all the... popularity: 28   •   tools:   recategorize can you take a pot plant on a airplane?
in a science fair project will a plant in a  smoke-filled habitat or healthy habitat grow faster?
popularity: 105   •   tools:   recategorize what eats prickly pear cacti?
popularity: 41   •   tools:   recategorize
popularity: 29   •   tools:   recategorize is there a plant called joe something?
the flower of zucchini and other summer squash are quite edible and have become regular fare in mexico and other third world...
then the sun  shines down on the plant giving the leaves oxygen and... popularity: 25   •   tools:   recategorize
popularity: 102   •   tools:   recategorize is the cyclamen plant poisonous to cats?
popularity: 24 • tools: recategorize tap water will cause a plant to droop because of the addititve such as flouride, rain water is best for plants if the plant is... popularity: 24 • tools: recategorize i think you should conduct your own experiment and research and form your own conclusions.
ok, the answer is yes, depending on what plants you are talking about, if you are talking about epsom salts that is a good thing...
[960] removed the answer of weight of oak tree 10 feb 2012 23:25 id2381193030 wrote the first answer to weight of oak tree 10 feb 2012
tap water will cause a plant to droop because of the addititve such as  flouride, rain water is best for plants if the plant is...
popularity: 41   •   tools:   recategorize what area does aloe vera grow in?
all the pine and fir trees are softwood...
there is... popularity: 23 •
tools: recategorize i can tell you from personal experience that african violets will die if watered with milk thanks to my 10 year old niece.
popularity: 26 • tools: recategorize olives grow very readily from seed, so much so that they are a serious problem in some areas such as australia.
it wont hurt the plants.
filtered water is better for plants as it removes the chlorine and  chloromides that are harmfull to the living cells of the...
how do you gid rid of gnats on inside basil plant?
well i remember i was at my uncles house in arazona
tools: recategorize the major factor in successfully growing bougainvilleas is to provide them with a warm, sunny position.
how fast does chlorine evaporate from tap water?
create accountjoin using: already a member?
mint is a play so forever?
popularity: 35 • tools: recategorize
tools: recategorize shortly, sweetly & very simply yes.
popularity: 106   •   tools:   recategorize what will happen if you put hot water in plants?
and i got sun burn and my mom went outside and got a peice of an aloe vera...
popularity: 99   •   tools:   recategorize is a seed growing into a plant a chemical change?
sorus containing several sporangia.
mites hate moisture, don't allow plants to stay dry all the... popularity: 28 • tools: recategorize if you own the airplane you can, but it would still be illegal under us federal law, and under most state laws.
most houseplants need to be planted in a good potting soil.
the... popularity: 99 • tools: recategorize the spikes of a cactus prevents a herbivore from eating it as well prevents water loss through transpiration.
popularity: 106 • tools: recategorize
determine where the halfway mark... popularity: 38   •   tools:   recategorize
tools: recategorize first of all, many kinds of trees and shrubs can be made into a bonsai.
answerone day i was walking then suddenly my headphones got stuck in a  cactus, and while i was trying to get them out, the...
well, the plant is not mature enough for fertilization until a single large  nucleus within the embryo sac divides to form an egg...
i have a couple types of iris plants and i either cut them back as they  start to die in the fall or just wait and mow them over...
the speed of this depends on ph, temperature and volume of water.
--- just remember that they require  high light and sandy soil.
popularity: 27   •   tools:   recategorize
best place is two sets of leaves above an already existing branching.
there are several types of attachments depending on the manufactuer some of  the common ones: three screws spaced (120 degrees...
sign in houseplants are potted plants that don't require direct sunlight.
tools: recategorize plants require light for photosynthesis, so it is impossible for plants to increase in dry biomass without any light.
how do you start growing bonsai?
other possible problems are too much or too little water, too much or too... popularity: 30 • tools: recategorize poinsettia and oleander and the seeds of a cardboard palm tree are toxic to mammals.
well, the plant is not mature enough for fertilization until a single large nucleus within the embryo sac divides to form an egg...
popularity: 190   •   tools:   recategorize
popularity: 70   •   tools:   recategorize can an african violet clone itself?
popularity: 24   •   tools:   recategorize
put a clean, white piece of paper on the floor, shake the branches above the paper then look... popularity: 70 •
popularity: 30 • tools: recategorize
you can repot it  and get away with the dirt being 1 inch higher than... popularity: 26   •   tools:   recategorize do bamboo trees make good houseplants?
when your yucca plant becomes too tall for the space, it is in, gently  remove it from the pot.
click on the links below for tomato-related problems.
how do you get an indoor gardenia to bloom?
questions on propagation, re-potting, watering, fertilizing, general care of houseplants, lighting, and where to grow the plant.
tools: recategorize keep tulips out of sunlight and away from drafts and heat.
the most important thing is light exposure.
popularity: 33 • tools: recategorize softwood is just normal wood from a tree, but it's only wood from certain types of trees.
regardless if it touches the  plant or not.
popularity: 33   •   tools:   recategorize what is softwood made of?
roots are in earth, which is usually a steady 55 degrees f. and hot water...
popularity: 26 • tools: recategorize click on the links below for tomato-related problems.