hello from the arctic!
download pdfs: asian carp have invaded the mississippi, and destroyed the lucrative fishing industry.
sorry to everyone around us.
oceana wins policy victories for the oceans using science-based campaigns.
if any more cross that barrier, prepare for carpageddon.
we also visited the viking world museum and it was amazing to see how the vikings have shaped icelandic culture and traditions over the years.
i think they just make up names for places (like the famous volcano eyjafjallajokull) and have a laugh as tourists try to pronounce the places they want to visit.
6 turn the tap off - brush your teeth without the water  running and save up to 31 litres per day.
in the garden – there are lots of way to cut down on water use in the garden.
although provinces such as ontario  (a) and nova scotia (a-) received excellent grades the overall findings of the  report conclude that many other provincial and territorial governments along  with the federal government are still failing to ensure all canadians have  reliable access to safe, clean water.
download pdfs: the mekong river is the last great river in the world without major dams along all of its 3,000 mile journey through 6 countries.
5 in the garden – there are lots of way to cut  down on water use in the garden.
the northwest passage will soon be an international shipping lane.
you’ll save lots of water … and money!
100% of the electricity throughout iceland and this relatively small city of 115,000 people is generated from domestic renewable sources like geothermal and hydroelectricty.
they use 100% of public donations to directly fund sustainable water solutions in areas of greatest need.
it’s the greatest marketing campaign ever.
below is a pic of tyler and i trying to look tough in our viking helmets … i don’t think we looked very authentic carrying backpacks but we tried our best to look the part under the circumstances.
a leaky faucet alone can waste up to 55 liters of water per day and if left unchecked that could add up to over 20,000 liters per year!
the polar bear may soon be extinct.
it is a very simple concept but it  will go a long way towards saving water, time, energy and money.
geoff green from students on ice and our resident icelandic geologist ari gudmundsson (always good to know an icelandic geologist) were able to set up a special event with the president at the last minute and it was such an honour to have a chance to discuss arctic climate issues with the head of state of an arctic nation.
10 fruits and vegetables – wash your fruits and  vegetables in a pan of water instead of running water from the tap.
7 eat less meat - it takes over 4,500 litres of water  to make one average-sized steak!
so reducing the amount of hot water used in the shower can go a long way towards yearly energy and water savings.
water a plant – if you drop an ice cube, place it in a plant instead of throwing it in the sink.
have about the themes covered in each episode in  real time.
use a refillable water bottle – millions of plastic water bottles are filling up the landfills each year.
this will cut down on evaporation losses and  will keep it cleaner and warmer.
2 install an ultra low flush or dual flush toilet -  toilets are the single largest water guzzling appliances in the home and make  up about 1/3 of an individuals daily water use.
hey everyone, just wanted to wish you all a happy world water day.
cool water - keep a pitcher of water in the refrigerator rather than running tap water until it is cool enough to drink.
fred obedkoff is a retired science  teacher of 30 years who has written a number of resource documents for teachers.
if you don’t already know, reykjavik is considered the “greenest” city on earth.
this will cut down on evaporation losses and will keep it cleaner and warmer.
although we can’t pronounce many names of the places we visited during our time in iceland, the memories will still last a lifetime.
run full loads – always try to run full loads when running your dishwasher and laundry.
global in scope, oceana has offices in north, south and central america and europe.
november 15th, 2011 - ecojustice,  canada’s preeminent non-profit environmental law firm, has just released  its 3rd canadian drinking water report card titledwaterproof 3.
iceland is definitely one of the most beautiful countries we have ever visited but we don’t know why everything is so hard to pronounce.
install a low flow shower head - shower use accounts for about 1/5 of an individuals daily water use
it is really unfortunate to see that our federal government received an ‘f’ grade and we encourage you to visit theecojustice website to view the full report and learn what can be done to improve source water protection in this country.
run full loads – always try to run full loads  when running your dishwasher and laundry.
the highlight of our time in reykjavik had to be our surprise meeting with the president of iceland, ólafur ragnar grímsson.
the following are the science curriculum units that the  water brothers episodes and activities specifically complement: grade 9 – sustainable ecosystems grade 11 – diversity of living things grade 12 – population  dynamics educational guides by fredao educational consultants dao tran is currently a science teacher and an active committee member of the  science teacher association of ontario.
while the series will broadcast on tvo, it will also be simulcast online at  tvo.org/waterweek.
you can also save lots of water by throwing tissues in the garbage instead of flushing it down the toilet.
new ultra low flush and  dual flush toilets use between 3-6 litres per flush compared to the traditional  13-20 litres.
this interactive component will give your students the chance to get involved in, and excited about the world of science and most importantly water.
have about the themes covered in each episode in real time.
8 use a refillable water bottle – millions of plastic  water bottles are filling up the landfills each year.
14 cool water - keep a pitcher of water in the  refrigerator rather than running tap water until it is cool enough to drink.
during this online streaming event the water brothers will  be hosting a live chat from 7 – 9pm, where they will answer any questions  viewers (like your students!)
change in the arctic is happening at warp speed.
the same goes for giving your pets  new water – use the old water for a household plant.
today, only an electric fence is keeping them from entering the great lakes, and a few have already been spotted.
the report  evaluates water policies, programs and legislation across the country and gives  the provincial, territorial and federal governments a grade based on their  current efforts to protect drinking water.
it is a very simple concept but it will go a long way towards saving water, time, energy and money.
this interactive experience can be an excellent complement to your class, no matter the grade.
for example, on our second day we visited þingvellir national park (is that a p?) which is a unesco world heritage site and the location of iceland’s first legislative and judicial assembly in 930.
some city buses actually run on hydrogen power and the country  has set a goal to be fossil fuel free by 2050!
this includes surface and groundwater resources, the interface between freshwater and seawater and water-related disasters.
eat less meat - it takes over 4,500 litres of water to make one average-sized steak!
the water brothers take you to the second longest reef system on earth, the mezo-american reef.
fruits and vegetables – wash your fruits and vegetables in a pan of water instead of running water from the tap.
and where do the thousands of plastic [...]learn more > canadian antiglobalization activist barlow (blue gold) calls for a blue covenant among nations to define the world’s fresh water as a human right and a public trust rather than a [...]learn more > with hundreds of entertaining facts, thomas kostigen gives simple tips for water saving, both the water you see and use and “virtual water,” the water you cannot see but is [...]learn more > canada has long been seen as a land of natural bounty–a country of lush forests, abundant agriculture, and pristine lakes.
plus, tap water costs  less than a penny and it is absolutely delicious!
water.org traces its roots back to the founding of waterpartners in 1990.
we also visited the viking world museum and it was amazing to see how the  vikings have shaped icelandic culture and traditions over the years.
i hope that you are able take some time out of your day to learn about how you can help reduce your water footprint, and hopefully make a donation to a water charity of your choosing, or even better donate some of your time to a good water cause.
ari gudmundsson  (always good to know an icelandic geologist) were able to set up a special  event with the president at the last minute and it was such an honour to have a  chance to discuss arctic climate issues with the head of state of an arctic  nation.
100% of  the electricity throughout iceland and this relatively small city of 115,000  people is generated from domestic renewable sources like geothermal and  hydroelectricty.
plus, tap water costs less than a penny and it is absolutely delicious!
fix leaks – the most common areas for leaks in your home are faucets, showerheads and toilets.
the water brothers blow the lid off of bottlegate.
they live in the … valley of the dammed.
the highlight of our time in reykjavik had to be our surprise meeting with  the president of iceland, ólafur ragnar grímsson.
convince the public that free, tap water is unhealthy; and that bottled water is better.
alex and i just arrived in reykjavik, iceland this weekend and were  immediately astounded by the beauty of this city.
some city buses actually run on hydrogen power and the country has set a goal to be fossil fuel free by 2050!
it is really unfortunate to see that our federal government received an  ‘f’ grade and we encourage you to visit theecojustice website to  view the full report and learn what can be done to improve source water  protection in this country.
while the series will broadcast on tvo, it will also be simulcast online at tvo.org/waterweek.
download pdfs: we are launching this adventure series as a premium viewing experience that we would like to invite you and your students to join us onmarch 19th 2012 at 7pm!
we are also going to look at the importance of mangroves to these coastal areas, and the damaging effect, unchecked coastal development, can have on the oceans.
blog canada’s latest drinking water report card released by ecojustice!
– use a broom to clean your driveway of leaves instead of hosing it down.
why are we killing the most important, underwater sanctuaries on earth?
even as the sustainability of many resources has been questioned, [...]learn more > alex mifflin tyler mifflin promo stills behind-the-scenes h2br0 our locations
download pdfs: tips 1 install a low flow shower head - shower use  accounts for about 1/5 of an individuals daily water use so reducing the amount  of hot water used in the shower can go a long way towards yearly energy and  water savings.
with rising sea levels, the fate of the world depends on slowing the big thaw.
financial assistance – get government grants for a low flush toilet (dual flush); there is even a toilet that also regulates water amount to type of use.
this interactive component will give your students the chance to get  involved in, and excited about the world of science and most importantly water.
you can  also save lots of water by throwing tissues in the garbage instead of flushing  it down the toilet.
most people know ted danson as the affable bartender sam malone in the long-running television series cheers.
alex and i just arrived in reykjavik, iceland this weekend and were immediately astounded by the beauty of this city.
co-founded by matt damon and gary white, water.org is a nonprofit organization that has transformed hundreds of communities in africa, south asia, and central america by providing access to safe water and sanitation.
i think  they just make up names for places (like the famous volcano eyjafjallajokull)  and have a laugh as tourists try to pronounce the places they want to visit.
ocean currents activity interactive learning opportunity we are launching this adventure series as a premium viewing experience that  we would like to invite you and your students to join us onmarch 19th  2012 at 7pm!
more than 500,000 supporters have already joined oceana.
13 flush – never flush garbage down the toilet.
since 2001, we have protected over 1.2 million square miles of ocean and innumerable sea turtles, sharks, dolphins and other sea creatures.
in july 2009, waterpartners merged with h2o africa, resulting in the launch of water.org.
this interactive experience can be an excellent complement to your class,  no matter the grade.
if you own a pool, be sure to use a pool  cover when it’s not in use.
we will be traveling up the entire meso-american reef (2nd largest in the world), which spans from honduras through belize and up to cancun, mexico.
3 fix leaks – the most common areas for leaks in  your home are faucets, showerheads and toilets.
ecojustice has also put together an excellent video that provides some examples on how we can all help protect canada’s drinking water!
for example, on our second day we visited þingvellir national park  (is that a p?) which is a unesco world heritage site and the location of  iceland’s first legislative and judicial assembly in 930.
install an ultra low flush or dual flush toilet - toilets are the single largest water guzzling appliances in the home and make up about 1/3 of an individuals daily water use.
un-water strengthens coordination and coherence among un entities dealing with issues related to all aspects of freshwater and sanitation.
with 11 mega-dams being proposed long its valley basin , the most productive inland fishery in the world may soon be destroyed – and tens of millions asians left hungry.
flush – never flush garbage down the toilet.
oceana is the largest international organization working solely to protect the world’s oceans.
– use a broom to clean your driveway of  leaves instead of hosing it down.
geoff green  from students on ice and our resident icelandic geologist
a leaky faucet alone can waste  up to 55 liters of water per day and if left unchecked that could add up to  over 20,000 liters per year!
iceland is definitely one of the most beautiful countries we have ever  visited but we don’t know why everything is so hard to pronounce.
the following are the science curriculum units that the water brothers episodes and activities specifically complement: grade 9 – sustainable ecosystems grade 10 – climate change grade 11 – diversity of living things grade 12 – population dynamics educational guides by fredao educational consultants dao tran is currently a science teacher and an active committee member of the science teacher association of ontario.
and how do we stop reefer madness?download pdfs: the water brothers will examine the fascinating history of water in california as it is constantly being artificially diverted and dammed to create electricity and maintain growing populations and immense agricultural industries in one of the driest places in north america.
download pdfs: the world’s coral reefs are home to a quarter of all marine life – and they’re being wiped out.
during this online streaming event the water brothers will be hosting a live chat from 7 – 9pm, where they will answer any questions viewers (like your students!)
turn the tap off - brush your teeth without the water running and save up to 31 litres per day.
alex and i have both made donations to water.org today and have agreed to not shower for the next 48 hours among other things.
if you don’t already  know, reykjavik is considered the “greenest” city on earth.
you’ll save lots of water … and  money!
to learn more about world water day events that are taking place visit: http://www.worldwaterday.org/ cheers, tyler in canada, one drop is a charitable organization that develops integrated, innovative projects with an international scope, in which water plays a central role as a creative force in generating positive, sustainable effects for local and foreign populations and in the fight against poverty.
rain barrels, drip irrigation systems,  moisture sensors and choosing low water intensive plants and shrubs are all  great options.
9 water a plant – if you drop an ice cube, place it in  a plant instead of throwing it in the sink.
although we  can’t pronounce many names of the places we visited during our time in  iceland, the memories will still last a lifetime.
rain barrels, drip irrigation systems, moisture sensors and choosing low water intensive plants and shrubs are all great options.
ecojustice has also put together an excellent video  that provides some examples on how we can all help protect canada’s  drinking water!
the same goes for giving your pets new water – use the old water for a household plant.
so why does someone buy a bottle of water every second of every day?
below is a  pic of tyler and i trying to look tough in our viking helmets … i  don’t think we looked very authentic carrying backpacks but we tried our  best to look the part under the circumstances.
new ultra low flush and dual flush toilets use between 3-6 litres per flush compared to the traditional 13-20 litres.
download pdfs: the north pole is melting faster than ever.
we would also like to let everyone know that we are two weeks away from beginning to shoot our first episode called “reefer-madness”.
a non-profit organization bringing clean, safe drinking water to people in developing nations.
fred obedkoff is a retired science teacher of 30 years who has written a number of resource documents for teachers.
as you may have guessed it’s about the importance of coral reefs, and how we need to starting to taking better care of these fragile eco-systems with the introduction of more marine protected areas’s (mpa’s).
11 financial assistance – get government grants for a  low flush toilet (dual flush); there is even a toilet that also regulates water  amount to type of use.
if you own a pool, be sure to use a pool cover when it’s not in use.
but fewer realize that over the course of the past two and a half decades, [...] tap water is safe almost everywhere in the u.s.