according to the u.s. environmental protection agency, a single 100 gallon  rain barrel can save up to 1,300 gallons of utility-provided water during the  high demand summer months.
many varieties of rain barrel systems, starting at just $100, are available  for home installation.
read past columns at:  www.emagazine.com/earthtalk/archives.php.
beyond the benefits to individual homeowners, rainwater harvesting can also be good for the local community, as it reduces the erosion, flooding and pollution runoff associated with heavy rainfall, and lessens reliance on public water supplies, alleviating some of the burden on utilities.
the walton sun provides dedicated news and information for the beautiful beaches of walton county, in the panhandle of florida.
of course, most of us would only use rainwater to irrigate our lawn or garden, and there should be plenty to go around for doing that in all but the most drought stricken areas.
downspouts is a no-brainer.
utah and parts of washington  state have antiquated but nonetheless tough laws banning anyone but owners of  water rights from collecting rainwater flowing off privately owned rooftops.
homeowners should set up a water purification system if they do plan to use rainwater for interior needs.
send your environmental questions to: earthtalk®, p.o. box 5098, westport, ct 06881; earthtalk@emagazine.com.
but if you’re motivated to save a little water and  re-distribute it on your lawns or plants - or even use it for laundry, dishes  or other interior needs - collecting rainwater from your gutters’
plants and grass actually do better when fed rainwater instead of tap water, which is usually treated with softeners that actually inhibit plant growth.
according to john c. davis, writing in e – the environmental magazine, just about any homeowner can collect rainwater, given that the roof and gutters do most of the work.
about the sun | contact information | privacy policy | user agreement | advertising info | local business listings | site map | rss feeds autos | homes | jobs | classifieds freedom communications, inc.
most nurseries and garden centers offer a range of choices (as well as advice), but websites such as aquabarrel, clean air gardening and rainxchange make it easy to order a system online.
of course, most of us would only use rainwater to irrigate our lawn or  garden, and there should be plenty to go around for doing that in all but the  most drought stricken areas.
collecting rain water from your gutters' downspouts is a  no-brainer september 25, 2009 3:49 pm | print story | e-mail story dear earthtalk: how can i make good use of the rainwater that runs down my  roof and into my gutters?
many varieties of rain barrel systems, starting at just $100, are available for home installation.
send your environmental questions to: earthtalk®, p.o. box 5098,  westport, ct 06881; earthtalk@emagazine.com.
given these benefits, some states, including even drought-prone texas, subsidize residential rainwater collection systems.
a typical set-up is simply a rain barrel positioned under a gutter’s downspout.
using rainwater for plumbing uses can also extend the life of pipes and water heaters, since the salts added to tap water facilitate corrosion.
such laws are rarely enforced, however, and one in colorado was recently overturned.
for most of us, the rain that falls on our roof runs off into the ground or the sewer system.
handy homeowners can make their own water harvesting systems, but buying one pre-made is a lot easier.
according to john c. davis, writing in e – the environmental  magazine, just about any homeowner can collect rainwater, given that the roof  and gutters do most of the work.
tornado watch in effect until 1 p.m. revolutionary robot:
given these  benefits, some states, including even drought-prone texas, subsidize  residential rainwater collection systems.
plants and grass actually do better when fed rainwater instead of tap  water, which is usually treated with softeners that actually inhibit plant  growth.
and, reports davis, the lack of minerals in rainwater actually makes it  more effective than tap water for shampooing or doing dishes.
contacts: aquabarrel, www.aquabarrel.com, clean air gardening,  www.cleanairgardening.com, rainxchange, www.rainxchange.com.
according to the u.s. environmental protection agency, a single 100 gallon rain barrel can save up to 1,300 gallons of utility-provided water during the high demand summer months.
a typical set-up is simply a rain barrel positioned under a gutter’s  downspout.
“the barrel is typically fitted with a spigot at its base to  fill a watering can or attach a soaker hose (which bleeds out water all along  its length, providing effortless drip irrigation), and a filter or screen at  its top to prevent a buildup of leaves and other debris,” wrote davis.
contacts: aquabarrel, www.aquabarrel.com, clean air gardening, www.cleanairgardening.com, rainxchange, www.rainxchange.com.
most viewed stories rep. steve southerland shares the pains of hwy.
beyond the benefits to individual homeowners, rainwater harvesting can also  be good for the local community, as it reduces the erosion, flooding and  pollution runoff associated with heavy rainfall, and lessens reliance on public  water supplies, alleviating some of the burden on utilities.
homeowners should set up a water purification system if they do plan to use  rainwater for interior needs.
and since an inch of rain falling on a 2,000-square-foot roof produces some 1,200 gallons of runoff, one can harvest enough to supply all the water needs of a family of four for about two weeks.
and, reports davis, the lack of minerals in rainwater actually makes it more effective than tap water for shampooing or doing dishes.
“the barrel is typically fitted with a spigot at its base to fill a watering can or attach a soaker hose (which bleeds out water all along its length, providing effortless drip irrigation), and a filter or screen at its top to prevent a buildup of leaves and other debris,” wrote davis.
rainxchange   rain barrels are an inexpensive way to collect rainwater.
and since an inch of rain falling on a  2,000-square-foot roof produces some 1,200 gallons of runoff, one can harvest  enough to supply all the water needs of a family of four for about two weeks.
for most of us, the rain that falls on our roof runs off into the ground or  the sewer system.
see archived 'opinion' stories »
seaside neighborhood school gets to try out da vinci  robot (photos) construction delays on 98 at grand boulevard marie's bistro in blue mountain beach expands earth talk:
utah and parts of washington state have antiquated but nonetheless tough laws banning anyone but owners of water rights from collecting rainwater flowing off privately owned rooftops.
such laws are rarely enforced, however, and one in colorado was recently  overturned.
but if you’re motivated to save a little water and re-distribute it on your lawns or plants - or even use it for laundry, dishes or other interior needs - collecting rainwater from your gutters’ downspouts is a no-brainer.
using rainwater for plumbing uses can also extend the life of pipes and  water heaters, since the salts added to tap water facilitate corrosion.
most nurseries and garden centers offer a range  of choices (as well as advice), but websites such as aquabarrel, clean air  gardening and rainxchange make it easy to order a system online.
handy homeowners can make their own water harvesting systems, but buying  one pre-made is a lot easier.
331 with walton county
read past columns at: www.emagazine.com/earthtalk/archives.php.
sign up for newsletters/alerts/mobile dear earthtalk: how can i make good use of the rainwater that runs down my roof and into my gutters?
if it’s allowed in your state, that is.