dr. marc gorelick, chief of  pediatric emergency medicine at the medical college of wisconsin, led a group  of researchers that studied the incidence of illnesses following rainfall.
berkey water filter systems also significantly reduce the fluoride and arsenic  levels in your water via the pf line of filters.
based on previous usgs research, this 19 percent of wells that were discovered in this study compare with 7 percent of wells contaminated with nitrates and 1 to 2 percent for pesticides and volatile organic compounds.
we’ve stressed the importance of conservation of karsts before as most folks do not realize that once these groundwater supplies are contaminated naturally or by human pollution, it is very difficult and expensive to reverse the condition.
these  were not isolated to a couple regions, but rather found to be persistent  nationwide stating, “wells with human health benchmark exceedances were  widespread across the united states; they occurred in all aquifer groups and in  both humid and dry regions.”
researchers found  that the average number of emergency room visits increased by 11 percent for  four days after any amount of rainfall.
it doesn’t matter whether you are on a well or have city water,  turning on the tap can sometimes be a crap-shoot.
however, they also contaminate the wells indirectly by surface water runoff flowing into the underground waterway systems and ultimately finding their resting spots in karsts and water aquifers that these wells feed off of.
we also recommend a home water filter like the berkey to remove these harmful trace elements from the water.
according to epa, common sources of drinking water pollution may be human-caused or naturally-occurring and include the following: naturally occurring human activities · microorganisms from wildlife and soils · radionuclides from underlying rock · nitrates and nitrites from nitrogen compounds in the soil · heavy metals from underground rocks containing o arsenic, o cadmium, o chromium, o lead, and o selenium · fluoride.
that is why a handyhome water filter is required in every home.
yet these levels are well below the reduction levels of the berkey which reduces both voc’s and thm’s to beyond detectable limits.
joseph ayotte makes another statement many should pay heed to.
according to mclellan, water leaving milwaukee’s treatment plant is very high quality.
in a follow-up post, i will go into a more detailed analysis on this comparison.
unfortunately, bottled water adds to pollution, it can get expensive, and in some cases is simply municipal water that’s been bottled in a city like atlanta.
no comments » clean drinking water is essential to one’s health.
that is why a handyhome water filter is required in  every home.
radon gas decays into radioactive particles that can get trapped in your lungs when you breathe it.. ..radon in indoor air is the second leading cause of lung cancer.”
no comments » berkey home water filters - higher quality for less money saturday,  november 7th, 2009
extreme rainfall can deluge sewage systems, especially those systems that  are called upon to manage both waste water and storm water runoff.
· bacteria and nitrates from human and animal wastes—septic tanks and large farms · heavy metals from mining construction or older fruit orchards that used heavy metal pesticides · fertilizers and pesticides used on crops or lawns · industrial products and wastes from o local factories o industrial plants o gas stations o dry cleaners o leaking underground storage tanks o landfills, and o waste dumps · household wastes, including o cleaning solvents o used motor oil o paint o paint thinner and more · lead and copper from household plumbing materials · water treatment chemicals, including chlorine and chlorine byproducts to find out exactly what contaminants may be present in your water, you can contact your public water utility, which is required to publish an annual report for you, or consult theenvironment working group tap water database.
all of the stainless berkey home water filters are produced with the  highest quality 304 grade stainless steel, durable enough to last for decades.
it has been in the market for over 100 years and has  proven to be one of the best water filters on the market.
tags: home water filter, home water filters, water filters posted in uncategorized, home water filters, water filters |
even when the berkey secondary fluoride filters are added on, the black berkey / pf-2 combination is still cheaper.
as our lands continue to be treated  with fertilizers and chemicals, in concert with continued land  development, population growth, and industry pollution we experience an ever  increasing trickling of chemical waste into our groundwater systems  and waterways.
as a  result, an increased amount of contaminants and health effecting trace minerals  have seeped into these wells unnoticed.
basically, the longer  the water has been in contact with the aquifer, the  more chemically evolved it is deemed to be and thus the greater  concentrations of these trace minerals, some of which are harmful to the body  such as arsenic and radon.
for the first time a national study has been conducted testing for potential trace contaminants in wells and aquifers.
the geochemistry of groundwater changes in time due to the  contact with it’s aquifer materials.
the study concluded that the incidence  of waterborne illnesses occur more frequently even after comparatively mild  rain events.
as our lands continue to be treated with fertilizers and chemicals, in concert with continued land development, population growth, and industry pollution we experience an ever increasing trickling of chemical waste into our groundwater systems and waterways.
meanwhile, as this gets worked out, the risks to your health ever increase without a home water filter.
these variables affect water after it leaves the treatment plant and makes  it difficult to guarantee that water exiting the tap will be consistently safe.
model big berkey w/ 2 bb (black berkey  filters)
when it comes to home water filters, all  water filter systems are not created equal.
water filtration seems to be  slightly behind this awareness curve and is most likely due in large part to  the public just recently coming to terms with what’s really happening  with our water supply.
a copy of the study can be foundhere.
comparably, berkey water filters remove chlorine to beyond detectable levels.
city of minneapolis water department 91 jacksonville, fl jea a high quality water filter like the berkey home water filter can protect  you from many of these chemicals and contaminants that are not being removed by  your local water authority properly.
people all over the united states are becoming more practical these days purchasing only the necessities for achieving health and happiness.
when you buy a berkey home water filter i don’t think there’s anyone in the us or canada that  hasn’t been impacted by the economic depression.
in a follow-up post, i will go into a more detailed  analysis on this comparison.
unfortunately, bottled water adds to pollution, it can get  expensive, and in some cases is simply municipal water that’s been  bottled in a city like atlanta.
the nutritional supplement and organic foods markets continue to  grow by double digits year over year and is a testament to the customer’s  search for higher quality and better health.
it was a bit surprising how many of these trace elements had  exceedances of human health benchmarks, especially compared to other  contaminants we are often concerned about.
our water filters remove the things in your water that you don’t want without stripping out the vital minerals your body needs.
finally, it’s important to note that one of the fastest growing water concerns of the public is the fluoridation, or the addition of fluoride, to our municipal water supplies.
posted in  uncategorized, home water filters, water filters |
however, keeping  facilities manned, maintained and up to date is not cheap and requires  substantial taxpayer dollars.
when it’s time to enjoy peace of mind, home water filters can deliver.
the best and most proven home water filter we’ve found is the  berkey water filter.
joseph ayotte, one of the researchers and a hydrologist with the u.s.g.s. states ”it was a bit surprising how many of these trace elements had exceedances of human health benchmarks, especially compared to other contaminants we are often concerned about.
however, this pressure can fail after a water main break results in a breach.
he covers  filters representative of top consumer brands such as pur, aquasana, and  reverse osmosis.
comparably, the big three require many filter replacements across this 5 year period and result in a total cost ranging between $560 and $658.
it’s become an all to often event to read frightening  headlines about just what has been found in the public water supply.
here we show the study results in map form for radon: radon well contamination levels
whether it be our well water that is being affected  by general pollution, or our municipal water that is being heavily treated with  disinfectants, our water is not as pure and pristine as we would hope.
as i mentioned in my lasthome water filter post, i will be  evaluating many of the other water filter solutions on the market over the next  couple months, but would like to begin this journey comparing the berkey water  filter against the models; aquasana, pur, and brita.
even in communities with state of the art  treatment facilities, the infrastructure that connects these facilities to  homes, businesses, and schools is often in dire need of repair and maintenance.
there are instances when unpredictable occurrences such as natural disasters and power blackouts can place our families at risk.
when it comes to water filtration, if you start to do the math,  aquasana, pur, and brita are simply not the most cost effective.
no comments » water treatment plants are charged with keeping our water free of bacteria, poisonous chemicals, parasites and other waterborne toxins.
gaining peace of mind – there is something very comforting about knowing an effective home water filter system is on the job.
even when the berkey secondary  fluoride filters are added on, the black berkey / pf-2 combination is still  cheaper.
these great machines have been tested and proven to eliminate water borne bacteria that can cause various ailments.
i don’t think there’s anyone in the us or canada that hasn’t been impacted by the economic depression.
once purified, this clean water drops into the lower chamber and then awaits use.
arsenic well contamination here we show the study results in map form for arsenic: arsenic well contamination levels
to learn more about which water filter system will suit you best, please read this article onhow to choose a berkey filter system.
water filtration seems to be slightly behind this awareness curve and is most likely due in large part to the public just recently coming to terms with what’s really happening with our water supply.
the high quality of the black berkey filter it seems nowadays health is a topic of conversation on everybody’s  mind.
the gravity water filters we offer are designed to get rid of a number of major concerns in public drinking water.
this means it can be counted on to deliver safe, clean water even during power outages.
a one-time investment in a standard berkey home water filter such as theberkey light or the big berkey will cost the consumer $209 or $250 respectively, and provide at least 5 years of high quality filtration.
these pipes are kept under pressure and are designed to keep contaminants out of the treated water.
according to the study, the estimate of those potentially at risk are 6.5 million households, or approximately 26 million people!
researchers found that the average number of emergency room visits increased by 11 percent for four days after any amount of rainfall.
basically, the longer the water has been in contact with the aquifer, the more chemically evolved it is deemed to be and thus the greater concentrations of these trace minerals, some of which are harmful to the body such as arsenic and radon.
this is due to the fact that these wells are not monitored by any  agency and are not regulated.
the reality is  that has been a growing problem for decades now.
unfiltered water is poured into the upper chamber and is pushed through the black berkeys filter elements located inside the system via gravity.
it doesn’t matter whether you are on a well or have city water, turning on the tap can sometimes be a crap-shoot.
manganese well contamination here we show the study results in map form for manganese: manganese well contamination levels the epa does not have primary health risks associated with  manganese, rather they set secondary standards due to impacts  “such as the corrosion of iron and copper, may stain household  fixtures, and impart objectionable metallic taste and red or blue-green color  to the water supply as well.
tags: berkey filter, berkey water filter, black berkey, home water filter, home water filters posted in berkey, berkey water filter, home water filters, water filters | 1 comment » just recently on oct. 20th, 2009, dr oz did a segment on water quality showcasing some options for filtering your water.
conversely, berkey systems have an add-on filter option for theblack berkey filter elements called the pf-2 filter that specifically targets both fluoride and arsenic to reduce it by over 99.75%.
every decision we make needs to be one that maximizes that value of our hard  earned dollar.
conducted by the united  states geological survey, it was found that overall 19 percent of the 5,183  tested untreated public, private and monitoring wells exceeded health-based  safety standards.
a total of 20 trace elements were monitored in the study.
as i mentioned in my lasthome water filter post, i will be evaluating many of the other water filter solutions on the market over the next couple months, but would like to begin this journey comparing the berkey water filter against the models; aquasana, pur, and brita.
when private drinking water wells were removed from the data  set, it was found that a surprising 13 percent of all private wells  exceeded the health standards or guidelines.
the big three of pur, aquasana, and brita are decent at filtering out some  of the more well known disinfectants such as chlorine, but they do so only at  ranges between 96-99%.
it can also be taken on the road during camping trips and more.
big berkey w/ 2 cf (ceramic filters) pf-2
tags: contaminated drinking water, home water filter posted in home  water filter |
this is a great primer  for understanding why home water filters, including a qualityshower filter, are  critical for the health of you and your family.
the 2010 report card recently released by the american society of civil engineers gave pennsylvania’s water and waste water management systems failing grades.
according to the epa website on the dangers of arsenic, ” non-cancer effects can include thickening and discoloration of the skin, stomach pain, nausea, vomiting; diarrhea; numbness in hands and feet; partial paralysis; and blindness.
arsenic has been linked to cancer of the bladder, lungs, skin, kidney, nasal passages, liver, and prostate.”
with this many americans potentially at risk, we  also strongly advocate that home owners take the necessary steps  to test their wells on a yearly basis.
the berkey also reduces heavy metals such as aluminum and lead, removes pathogenic bacteria and e-coli, nitrates and nitrites, and radon.
these were not isolated to a couple regions, but rather found to be persistent nationwide stating, “wells with human health benchmark exceedances were widespread across the united states; they occurred in all aquifer groups and in both humid and dry regions.”
our most popular system, the big berkey home water filter, stands 19.25 inches tall and 8.5 inches in diameter, holding up to 2.25 gallons of water.
lowest performing pensacola, fl reported the presence of 45 pollutants and exceeded health guidelines for 21 of them.
even top ranked arlington, tx had 15 different pollutants present in drinking water and exceeded health targets for 4 during the monitoring period.
the right water filters will remove any worries and concerns  associated with grabbing water straight out of your tap.
the berkey home water filter system is favored from the british royal house to peace corp camps around the world for very good reasons.
well contamination here we show the study results in map form for radon: radon well contamination levels
even if you live in a city with a trusted public utility and water that tastes great right out of the tap, using a home water filter for drinking and cooking is a smart move for the health of your family.
these include: enjoying better tasting water – chlorine and other additives placed into public water supplies can give water a funny flavor that bothers many.
home water filters are used to filter treated or untreated water inside or  outside the home to produce pure water for safe drinking.
they are highly effective at removing  such things as cysts, parasites, and harmful pathogens (to 99.99999%), while  also removing many unwanted chemicals and contaminants to undetectable levels.
in addition, while not discussed nor a focus of the usgs study, a major and  still growing problem is pollution.
wisconsin - milwaukee’s great lakes w.a.t.e.r. institute (wisconsin  aquatic technology and environmental research).
unfiltered water is poured into the upper chamber and is pushed through the  black berkeys filter elements located inside the system via gravity.
the study reviewed data detailing the number of emergency room visits by children due to gastroenteritis or diarrhea.
this constant change and reactions  with minerals is considered chemical evolution.
the best and most proven home water filter we’ve found is the berkey water filter.
tags: berkey water filters, countertop wter filters, home water filter, home water filters, shower filter, shower filters, water filter comparison, water filters posted in home water filters, water filters | 3 comments » big berkey water filters is proudly powered by wordpress entries (rss) andcomments (rss).
getting a chemical onto the sdwa list can take years of review, aswe’ve seen with chromium-6, which has been underreview by the environmental protection agency since 2008.
top rated water utilities lowest rated water utilities 1 arlington, tx arlington water utilities 100 pensacola, fl emerald coast water utility 2 providence, ri providence water 99 riverside, ca city of riverside public utilities 3 fort worth, tx fort worth water department 98 las vegas, nv las vegas valley water district 4 charleston, sc charleston water system 97 riverside county, ca eastern municipal water district 5 boston, ma massachusetts water resources authority 96 reno, nv truckee meadows water authority 6 honolulu, hi board of water supply (honolulu/windward/pearl harbor) 95 houston, tx city of houston public works 7 austin, tx austin water utility 94 omaha, ne metropolitan utilities district 8 fairfax county, va fairfax water 93 north las vegas, nv city of north las vegas utilities department 9 st. louis, mo city of st. louis water division 92 san diego, ca san diego water department 10 minneapolis, mn city of minneapolis water department 91 jacksonville, fl jea a high quality water filter like the berkey home water filter can protect you from many of these chemicals and contaminants that are not being removed by your local water authority properly.
not stressed enough in this report is the fact that the study analysis is based on nawqa (national water-quality assessment) program data collected from 1992 to 2003.
the wells that were found to be most at risk were the private wells used by homeowners.
dr. gorelick stated that the mystery “is what happens to water between the time it leaves the treatment plant and gets to your tap.”
the study reviewed data detailing the number of emergency room visits by  children due to gastroenteritis or diarrhea.
the condition of infrastructure in pennsylvania and across the nation has been in the spotlight as federal stimulus dollars begin to dry up.
with harmful bacteria found even in municipal drinking water systems, you can never be too safe.
this high-grade material allows for fast and easy cleaning while also  maintaining a great look on your counter top.
whether it be our well water that is being affected by general pollution, or our municipal water that is being heavily treated with disinfectants, our water is not as pure and pristine as we would hope.
every decision we make needs to be one that maximizes that value of our hard earned dollar.
dr. marc gorelick, chief of pediatric emergency medicine at the medical college of wisconsin, led a group of researchers that studied the incidence of illnesses following rainfall.
study collaborator sandra mclellan is a senior scientist at the university  of
as a result, the report recommends homeowners consider purchasing ahome water filter to purify  their drinking water to protect themselves from these trace  contaminants.
these  include: enjoying better tasting water – chlorine and other  additives placed into public water supplies can give water a funny flavor that  bothers many.
many of the most popular  water filters on the market remove or reduce some chemicals and contaminants,  but leave gaping holes for other contaminants to pass through to our drinking  glass.
when the right system is selected, you will enjoy cleaner, safer water  without having to spend a fortune in the process.
comparably, the big  three require many filter replacements across this 5 year period and result in  a total cost ranging between $560 and $658.
berkey water filters  are considered one of the highest quality filtration systems on the market, and  they’ll save you money while providing you the healthy drinking water
every time you turn on the tap at home, chances are you find yourself wondering just what is in your water.
again, none of the big three  water filters address fluoride.
storm water  and wastewater can then mix and overflow, ultimately resulting in contaminated  drinking water.
as a result, an increased amount of contaminants and health effecting trace minerals have seeped into these wells unnoticed.
tags: arsenic well contamination, contaminated drinking water, home water  filter, radon well contamination posted in home water filter |
that’s more than twice the cost for inferior water filtration.
the great advantage of using a berkey home water filter is its flexible function.
when home water filters are used to get rid of the chemicals, the only taste left behind is pure, clean water.
corrosion of distribution system pipes can reduce water flow.”
to learn more about which water filter system will  suit you best, please read this article onhow to choose a berkey filter system.
according to the study, the estimate of those  potentially at risk are 6.5 million households, or approximately 26 million  people!
people all over the united states are becoming more practical these days  purchasing only the necessities for achieving health and happiness.
this can  be more dangerous as an individual can experience a slow growing health issue  over many years.
many of these chemicals seep and soak through the sediment impacting our wells directly.
tags: arsenic well contamination, contaminated drinking water, home water filter, radon well contamination posted in home water filter |
yr cost 2 $250 $250 $55 $95 $170 $190 $170 $177 2nd
the primary question we have to ask ourselves is: how have these concentrations gotten so high putting so many us citizens at risk, and how does one protect their family?there are two primary causes for these major well changes; natural chemical evolution / groundwater age, and pollution.
through a short procedure, this handy machine will provide you with clean purified water as well as saving you from the costs of potential sicknesses caused by unwanted chemicals and contamination.
this is in large portion due to the fact that these trace elements build up in the body over time and can cause a slow degradation of health.
he covers filters representative of top consumer brands such as pur, aquasana, and reverse osmosis.
according to mclellan, water  leaving milwaukee’s treatment plant is very high quality.
there are instances when unpredictable occurrences such as natural  disasters and power blackouts can place our families at risk.
he states,  “we often get more upset about these anthropogenic contaminants but we  have to remember that these naturally occurring elements are often times more  of a widespread problem.
yet these levels are well below the reduction levels of the berkey  which reduces both voc’s and thm’s to beyond detectable  limits.
however, keeping facilities manned, maintained and up to date is not cheap and requires substantial taxpayer dollars.
in addition to making drinks taste better, the removal of chemicals is also fantastic for the flavors of dishes cooked with water in the mix.
no comments » the general public is slowly beginning to understand that our water supply has been compromised.
the great advantage of using a berkey home water filter is its flexible  function.
this can also be an issue after rainfall saturates the surrounding soil, allowing contaminated water to leach into the piping system.
not to diminish the importance of the others, but trace elements are also hugely important and arguably more so.”
with harmful bacteria found even in municipal drinking water systems, you can  never be too safe.
that individual and their doctor may struggle to isolate the  root cause and not recognize that it could be harmful trace elements  from their own well water.
we’ll call  them the big three.
this high-grade material allows for fast and easy cleaning while also maintaining a great look on your counter top.
in addition, while not discussed nor a focus of the usgs study, a major and still growing problem is pollution.
this statement directly corresponds to  the radon dangers this study has found.
in this way, even moderate rainfall or water events can contribute to drinking water contamination.
the answer to that mystery likely lies in an aging infrastructure of pipes  used to transport water.
when the right home water filter system is used, you can be assured of several things every time you pour a glass of water for a family member.
here we show the study results in map form for manganese: manganese well contamination levels the epa does not have primary health risks associated with manganese, rather they set secondary standards due to impacts “such as the corrosion of iron and copper, may stain household fixtures, and impart objectionable metallic taste and red or blue-green color to the water supply as well.
when it comes to water filtration, if you start to do the math, aquasana, pur, and brita are simply not the most cost effective.
joseph ayotte, one of the researchers and a hydrologist with the u.s.g.s.  states ”
the reality is that has been a growing problem for decades now.
our water filters  remove the things in your water that you don’t want without stripping out  the vital minerals your body needs.
if you’re ready to stop  worrying about what is in your water and start enjoying a cleaner taste, then  picking the right home water filter system is a great investment.
when it’s time to enjoy peace of mind, home water filters can  deliver.
extreme rainfall can deluge sewage systems, especially those systems that are called upon to manage both waste water and storm water runoff.
impacting our wells directly.
once  purified, this clean water drops into the lower chamber and then awaits use.
even when it comes to very dangerous voc’s and thm’s, that have been shown to have correlations to increases in illnesses such as cancer, only aquasana and pur have some impact at the 98-99% level.
for this reason, spending the time and resources finding ahome water filter  should be a top priority.
children were studied because they, along with the elderly and those in poor health, are the first ones to become ill following an assault upon their immune systems.
(chart below) addt’l details can be found atberkey home water filters comparison chart.
all of the stainless berkey home water filters are produced with the highest quality 304 grade stainless steel, durable enough to last for decades.
the gravity water filters we offer are designed to get rid of a number of  major concerns in public drinking water.
the results of a recent study indicate that it may not even take a severe rain event to cause contamination of tap water.
unsavory chemicals like chlorine, unwanted additives like fluoride, and a host of microscopic bacteria can seep into every glass.
local governments are looking to the commonwealth’s h2o funding announcements to help cover a small portion, but it is estimated that more than $25 billion will be required.
just turn on the tv or go out on the internet and  you’ll see some other type of contaminant or chemical that’s now  being found in our drinking water.
according to the epa website on the dangers of arsenic,  ” non-cancer effects can include thickening and discoloration of the skin,  stomach pain, nausea, vomiting; diarrhea; numbness in hands and feet; partial  paralysis; and blindness.
these great machines  have been tested and proven to eliminate water borne bacteria that can cause  various ailments.
this can be more dangerous as an individual can experience a slow growing health issue over many years.
this is a great primer for understanding why home water filters, including a qualityshower filter, are critical for the health of you and your family.
the  berkey home water filter is one of these necessities providing the healthiest  water for you and your family at a reasonable cost tags: home water filter, home water filters
however, there are more than 60,000 chemicals in use in the united states.
when private drinking water wells were removed from the data set, it was found that a surprising 13 percent of all private wells exceeded the health standards or guidelines.
the findings certainly underscore the message we hear from the public health agencies, that everyone should test their wells for a suite of trace elements.
the nutritional supplement and organic foods markets continue to grow by double digits year over year and is a testament to the customer’s search for higher quality and better health.
berkey water filters are considered one of the highest quality filtration systems on the market, and they’ll save you money while providing you the healthy drinking water your family needs.
given the statements in the  report and prior historical data, our feeling is that these harmful levels have  most likely inclined, not declined since this data was collected.
no comments » 19% of us drinking wells contaminated according to usgs study thursday, october 13th, 2011
it has been in the market for over 100 years and has proven to be one of the best water filters on the market.
to prevent  sickness and bacteria spreading in our homes, our loved ones need fresh clean  water to drink every day.
this constant change and reactions with minerals is considered chemical evolution.
the berkey home water filter system is favored from the british royal house  to peace corp camps around the world for very good reasons.
these variables affect water after it leaves the treatment plant and makes it difficult to guarantee that water exiting the tap will be consistently safe.
conversely, berkey systems have an add-on  filter option for theblack berkey filter elements called the pf-2 filter that  specifically targets both fluoride and arsenic to reduce it by over 99.75%.
not stressed enough in this report is the fact that  the study analysis is based on nawqa (national water-quality assessment)
in the mean time,more and more communities have discovered this potentially cancer-causing chemical in their water supply.
a berkey water filter has all the high purification functions  desired, along with smooth and elegant designs to match any kitchen style you  have at your lovely home.
the berkey home water filter is one of these necessities providing the healthiest water for you and your family at a reasonable cost tags: home water filter, home water filters
plus, the berkey home water filter system does not depend on electricity to function and it is fully portable.
the wells that were found to be most at risk were the private wells used by  homeowners.
it seems nowadays health is a topic of conversation on everybody’s mind.
the general public is slowly beginning to understand that our water supply  has been compromised.
the three that were shown to have the highest levels werearsenic, radon, and manganese.
getting your money’s worth – some home water  filters cost a small fortune to put into operation.
it has two chambers, an upper chamber  and a lower chamber,that are both very important to the filtration process.
breathing radon in indoor air can cause lung  cancer.
the berkey system does not.
radon gas decays into radioactive particles that can get trapped in  your lungs when you breathe it.. ..radon in indoor air is the second leading  cause of lung cancer.”
”for interested customers,  the berkey pf-2 filters are used inside the lower chamber of our home water  filter system for removing arsenic from the water.
storm water and wastewater can then mix and overflow, ultimately resulting in contaminated drinking water.
they are highly effective at removing such things as cysts, parasites, and harmful pathogens (to 99.99999%), while also removing many unwanted chemicals and contaminants to undetectable levels.
this is due to the fact that these wells are not monitored by any agency and are not regulated.
the answer to that mystery likely lies in an aging infrastructure of pipes used to transport water.
conducted by the united states geological survey, it was found that overall 19 percent of the 5,183 tested untreated public, private and monitoring wells exceeded health-based safety standards.
in  response, much of the population has turned to bottled water and home water  filters.
getting your money’s worth – some home water filters cost a small fortune to put into operation.
even in communities with state of the art treatment facilities, the infrastructure that connects these facilities to homes, businesses, and schools is often in dire need of repair and maintenance.
just turn on the tv or go out on the internet and you’ll see some other type of contaminant or chemical that’s now being found in our drinking water.
no comments » berkey filters are the premiere home water filter wednesday, june  2nd, 2010 clean drinking water is essential to one’s health.
regardless, protection with a home water filter is essential for homeowners whose wells have been compromised by these harmful trace minerals or chemical pollutants.
according to the epa website on radon; “radon in water is only a concern if your drinking water comes from underground, such as a well that pumps water from an aquifer.
the condition of infrastructure in pennsylvania and across the nation has  been in the spotlight as federal stimulus dollars begin to dry up.
it’s been a tough couple years, and while wall street and the government talk about a recovery underway, many of us on main street simply don’t see it.
berkey water  delivers the performance you’re after, at the prices you can afford.
fluoride and arsenic filters  (for use w/ black berkey filter pf-4 fluoride and arsenic filters (for use with  ceramic filters) aquasana countertop (aq-4000) pur 3 stage faucet filter  (fm9700) brita faucet filter w/ advanced features brita pitcher filter 1st
one additional poignant usgs statement was that harmful elements  “far outpace” other pollutants, many of which get far more public  attention.
model big berkey w/ 2 bb (black berkey filters)
this is in large portion due to the fact that these trace elements build  up in the body over time and can cause a slow degradation of health.
plus, the berkey home water filter  system does not depend on electricity to function and it is fully portable.
the results of a recent study indicate that it may not even take a severe  rain event to cause contamination of tap water.
according to the epa website on radon; “radon in water is only a  concern if your drinking water comes from underground, such as a well that  pumps water from an aquifer.
with this many americans potentially at risk, we also strongly advocate that home owners take the necessary steps to test their wells on a yearly basis.
”for interested customers, the berkey pf-2 filters are used inside the lower chamber of our home water filter system for removing arsenic from the water.
berkey water  filters can protect them from the dangers of unsafe water during these times as  it requires no electricity.
program data collected from 1992 to 2003.
home water filters are used to filter treated or untreated water inside or outside the home to produce pure water for safe drinking.
the three that  were shown to have the highest levels werearsenic, radon, and manganese.
the findings certainly underscore  the message we hear from the public health agencies, that everyone should test  their wells for a suite of trace elements.
the other water filters fail to address these  contaminants and instead pass them through to your drinking glass  completely.
home water filters comparison given this is only a 7 minute segment, dr oz is unable to explore in detail  some of the other water filtration solutions on the market.
the geochemistry of groundwater changes in time due to the contact with it’s aquifer materials.
i’ve gone ahead and created aberkey  water filter comparison chart to stack up some of the more common and highly  advertised water filters such as pur, aquasana, and brita filters to our own  berkey filter.
tags: home water filter, tap water contaminants, tap water filter posted inhome water filter |
berkey water filter systems also significantly reduce the fluoride and arsenic levels in your water via the pf line of filters.
in addition to making drinks taste  better, the removal of chemicals is also fantastic for the flavors of dishes  cooked with water in the mix.
given the statements in the report and prior historical data, our feeling is that these harmful levels have most likely inclined, not declined since this data was collected.
berkey home water filters will remove bacteria such as salmonella, e-coli, and cholera, in addition to eradicating rust and other heavy metals in the water that can have negative impacts on the body.
in the one of most comprehensive analyses of public drinking water utilities available, the non-profit environmental working group ranked performance and safety of the utility and water supplies in america’s big cities (250,000 or more inhabitants).
(chart below)  addt’l details can be found atberkey  home water filters comparison chart.
the right water filters will remove any worries and concerns associated with grabbing water straight out of your tap.
a berkey water filter has all the high purification functions desired, along with smooth and elegant designs to match any kitchen style you have at your lovely home.
however, this pressure can fail  after a water main break results in a breach.
again, none of the big three water filters address fluoride.
berkey home water filters will remove bacteria such as salmonella, e-coli,  and cholera, in addition to eradicating rust and other heavy metals in the  water that can have negative impacts on the body.
it is the homeowners responsibility to keep tabs  on the water quality and for many reasons this is not commonly done.
posted in home water filter ,home water filters | no comments »
our water costs about 1.7 cents a gallon.
it has two chambers, an upper chamber and a lower chamber,that are both very important to the filtration process.
the big three of pur, aquasana, and brita are decent at filtering out some of the more well known disinfectants such as chlorine, but they do so only at ranges between 96-99%.
based on previous usgs research, this 19 percent of wells that were  discovered in this study compare with 7 percent of wells contaminated with  nitrates and 1 to 2 percent for pesticides and volatile organic compounds.
meanwhile, as this gets worked out, the risks to  your health ever increase without a home water filter.
unsavory chemicals like chlorine,  unwanted additives like fluoride, and a host of microscopic bacteria can seep  into every glass.
a  one-time investment in a standard berkey home water filter such as theberkey  light or the big berkey will cost the consumer $209 or $250 respectively, and  provide at least 5 years of high quality filtration.
tags: home water filter, home water filters, water filters
while these are qualitywater filters, they do lack some filtration capabilities, and their yearly costs are significantly higher than a basic berkey water filter.
this statement directly corresponds to the radon dangers this study has found.
when the right system is selected, you will enjoy cleaner, safer water without having to spend a fortune in the process.
in pittsburgh for  example, officials are debating over how to fund needed updates to both their  water treatment facilities and maintenance of sewer lines which were installed  in 1912.
when the right home water filter system is used, you can be assured of  several things every time you pour a glass of water for a family member.
if you’re ready to stop worrying about what is in your water and start enjoying a cleaner taste, then picking the right home water filter system is a great investment.
that leaves many of us spending our time trying to  determine how to get the highest quality the for the least amount of  money.
corrosion of distribution system pipes can reduce  water flow.”
posted in home water filter ,home water filters | no comments » home water filters take the worry away thursday, february 4th, 2010
yr cost $0 $0 $55 $95 $78 $156 $156 $160 3rd yr cost $0 $0 $0 $95 $156 $156 $156 $160 4th yr cost $0 $0 $55 $95 $156 $156 $156 $160 5th
we also recommend a home water  filter like the berkey to remove these harmful trace elements from the water.
here we show the study results in map form for arsenic: arsenic well contamination levels
one additional poignant usgs statement was that harmful elements “far outpace” other pollutants, many of which get far more public attention.
this means it can be counted on to deliver safe, clean water even during power  outages.
tags: berkey filter, berkey water filter, black berkey, home water filter,  home water filters posted in berkey, berkey water filter, home water  filters, water filters | 1 comment » dr oz on home water filters saturday, october 24th, 2009 just recently on oct. 20th, 2009, dr oz did a segment on water quality  showcasing some options for filtering your water.
it’s become an all to often event to read frightening headlines about just what has been found in the public water supply.
through a short procedure,  this handy machine will provide you with clean purified water as well as saving  you from the costs of potential sicknesses caused by unwanted chemicals and  contamination.
in this way, even moderate rainfall or water events can  contribute to drinking water contamination.
the study concluded that the incidence of waterborne illnesses occur more frequently even after comparatively mild rain events.
when it comes to home water filters, all water filter systems are not created equal.
many of the most popular water filters on the market remove or reduce some chemicals and contaminants, but leave gaping holes for other contaminants to pass through to our drinking glass.
our most popular system, the big berkey home water filter, stands 19.25  inches tall and 8.5 inches in diameter, holding up to 2.25 gallons of water.
however, they also contaminate the wells  indirectly by surface water runoff flowing into the underground waterway  systems and ultimately finding their resting spots in  karsts and water aquifers that these wells feed off of.
when home water filters are used to get rid of the chemicals, the  only taste left behind is pure, clean water.
gaining peace of mind – there is something very  comforting about knowing an effective home water filter system is on the job.
breathing radon in indoor air can cause lung cancer.
manganese can have a “black to brown color; black staining; bitter metallic taste”
local governments are looking to the commonwealth’s h2o funding  announcements to help cover a small portion, but it is estimated that more than  $25 billion will be required.
the problem is further complicated by limited taxpayer dollars set to the backdrop of towns and states facing major budget shortfalls.
this fantastic system is operated with no pressure or electricity and can filter 3.5 gallons of water in an hour.
that’s more than twice  the cost for inferior water filtration.
as a result, the report recommends homeowners consider purchasing ahome water filter to purify their drinking water to protect themselves from these trace contaminants.
given this is only a 7 minute segment, dr oz is unable to explore in detail some of the other water filtration solutions on the market.
this fantastic system is operated with no pressure or electricity and can  filter 3.5 gallons of water in an hour.
tags: contaminated drinking water, home water filter posted in home water filter |
dr. gorelick  stated that the mystery “is what happens to water between the time it  leaves the treatment plant and gets to your tap.”
this can also be an issue after  rainfall saturates the surrounding soil, allowing contaminated water to leach  into the piping system.
children were studied because  they, along with the elderly and those in poor health, are the first ones to  become ill following an assault upon their immune systems.
yr cost $0 $0 $55 $95 $156 $156 $156 $160 5 year total  investment $250 $250 $220 $475 $560 $658 $638 $657 making choices that affect the health of you and your family are some of  the most important choices that you can ever make.
to prevent sickness and bacteria spreading in our homes, our loved ones need fresh clean water to drink every day.
the problem is further complicated by limited taxpayer dollars set to the  backdrop of towns and states facing major budget shortfalls.
the u.s. safe drinking water act regulates acceptable levels of 91 chemicals that might come out of your kitchen faucet.
that leaves many of us spending our time trying to determine how to get the highest quality the for the least amount of money.
no comments  » outdated water infrastructures may be a health hazard thursday,  september 30th, 2010 water treatment plants are charged with keeping our water free of bacteria,  poisonous chemicals, parasites and other waterborne toxins.
the other water filters fail to address these contaminants and instead pass them through to your drinking glass completely.
for the first time a national study has been conducted testing for  potential trace contaminants in wells and aquifers.
manganese can have a “black to brown color;  black staining; bitter metallic taste” protection with a home water filter the primary question we have to ask ourselves is: how have  these concentrations gotten so high putting so many us citizens at risk, and  how does one protect their family?there are two primary causes for  these major well changes; natural chemical evolution / groundwater  age, and pollution.
in response, much of the population has turned to bottled water and home water filters.
for this reason, spending the time and resources finding ahome water filter should be a top priority.
arsenic has been linked to cancer of the bladder,  lungs, skin, kidney, nasal passages, liver, and prostate.”
comparably, berkey water filters remove chlorine  to beyond detectable levels.
berkey water filters can protect them from the dangers of unsafe water during these times as it requires no electricity.
while these are qualitywater filters, they do lack some  filtration capabilities, and their yearly costs are significantly higher than a  basic berkey water filter.
it’s been a  tough couple years, and while wall street and the government talk about a  recovery underway, many of us on main street simply don’t see it.
many of these chemicals seep and soak through the sediment
in pittsburgh for example, officials are debating over how to fund needed updates to both their water treatment facilities and maintenance of sewer lines which were installed in 1912.
thm’s, that have been shown to have correlations to increases in  illnesses such as cancer, only aquasana and pur have some impact at the 98-99%  level.
the 2010  report card recently released by the american society of civil engineers gave  pennsylvania’s water and waste water management systems failing grades.
finally, it’s important to note that one of the fastest  growing water concerns of the public is the fluoridation, or the addition of  fluoride, to our municipal water supplies.
not to diminish the importance of the others, but  trace elements are also hugely important and arguably more so.”
we’ll call them the big three.
regardless, protection with a home water filter is essential for homeowners  whose wells have been compromised by these harmful trace minerals  or chemical pollutants.
i’ve gone ahead and created aberkey water filter comparison chart to stack up some of the more common and highly advertised water filters such as pur, aquasana, and brita filters to our own berkey filter.
that individual and their doctor may struggle to isolate the root cause and not recognize that it could be harmful trace elements from their own well water.
every time you turn on the tap at home, chances are you find yourself  wondering just what is in your water.
the berkey also reduces heavy metals such as  aluminum and lead, removes pathogenic bacteria and e-coli, nitrates and  nitrites, and radon.
tags: berkey water filters, countertop wter filters, home water filter,  home water filters, shower filter, shower filters, water filter comparison,  water filters posted in home water filters, water filters | 3 comments  » big berkey water filters is proudly powered by wordpress entries (rss)  andcomments (rss).
it is the homeowners responsibility to keep tabs on the water quality and for many reasons this is not commonly done.
fluoride and arsenic filters (for use w/ black berkey filter pf-4 fluoride and arsenic filters (for use with ceramic filters) aquasana countertop (aq-4000) pur 3 stage faucet filter (fm9700) brita faucet filter w/ advanced features brita pitcher filter making choices that affect the health of you and your family are some of the most important choices that you can ever make.
even when it comes to very dangerous voc’s and
these pipes are kept under pressure and are designed  to keep contaminants out of the treated water.
he states, “we often get more upset about these anthropogenic contaminants but we have to remember that these naturally occurring elements are often times more of a widespread problem.
we’ve stressed  the importance of conservation of karsts before as most folks do not  realize that once these groundwater supplies are contaminated naturally or by  human pollution, it is very difficult and expensive to reverse the condition.
berkey water delivers the performance you’re after, at the prices you can afford.
study collaborator sandra mclellan is a senior scientist at the university of wisconsin - milwaukee’s great lakes w.a.t.e.r. institute (wisconsin aquatic technology and environmental research).