usually this water is treated to remove impurities and harmful  organisms.
for assistance with newton contact a system operator (help@newton.dep.anl.gov), or at argonne's educational programs newton and ask a scientist educational programs building 360 9700 s. cass ave.
it should  be collected and handled under sterile conditions, however.
wendell bechtold, meteorologist forecaster, national weather service weather forecast office, st. louis, mo click here to return to the weather archives newton is an electronic community for science, math, and computer science k-12
educators, sponsored and operated byargonne national laboratory's educational programs, andrew skipor, ph.d., head of educational programs.
if it runs along the ground, it's anybody's guess  what sort of microbes and toxic elements it will pick up.
richard e. barrans jr., ph.d. assistant director pg research foundation, darien, illinois hi  joe, the only reason i could think of where you can't drink rain  water is if you have no mouth.
it should be collected and handled under sterile conditions, however.
in some third world  nations, they drain rooftop rain gutters into barrels to collect water for  drinking.
name: joe status: n/a age: old location: n/a country: n/a date: 2000-2001 question:  why can't i drink rain water?
but if you put a  clean bowl out in the rain to collect the rain water, there's no reason you  can't drink the water from it.
much of the world's  water supply, especially in the tropics, comes from rain water.
newton's home page privacy policy drinking rain water name: joe status: n/
however, it is safer yet to get your water from municipal water supplies or from wells that are frequently tested.
much of the world's water supply, especially in the tropics, comes from rain water.
usually this water is treated to remove impurities and harmful organisms.
there is no essential reason why you can't drink rain water.
argonne, illinois 60439-4845, usa update: march 2012
however, it is safer yet to get your water from municipal water supplies or  from wells that are frequently tested.
for assistance with newton contact a  system operator (help@newton.dep.anl.gov), or at argonne's  educational programs newton and ask a scientist educational programs
i think the concern about drinking rain water  has to do with the fact that in our non-pristine environment the raindrops may  have picked up some contaminant on the way down from the clouds.
but you can collect rainfall and drink it also.
david cook argonne national laboratory since ancient times, the only sources of natural water that are recognized as safe to drink are rain water and water from deep wells.
a age: old location: n/a country: n/a date: 2000-2001 question: why can't i drink rain water?
if you live in  a really polluted city, it might be a good idea not to drink rain when it just  starts, as it's washing out all the particulate material in the air (car  exhaust, diesel fumes, dust, etc).
i think the concern about drinking rain water has to do with the fact that in our non-pristine environment the raindrops may have picked up some contaminant on the way down from the clouds.
other than that, i can't think of why you shouldn't be drinking it.
it may have flowed into the ground to become part of the groundwater supply, or may have arrived in resevoirs via rivers and streams.
however, rainwater contains pollutants, soil, plant parts, insect parts, bacteria, algae, and sometimes radioactive materials that the rain/snow has washed out of the air.
if you live in a really polluted city, it might be a good idea not to drink rain when it just starts, as it's washing out all the particulate material in the air (car exhaust, diesel fumes, dust, etc).
if filtered with one of the filtering systems that you can buy in  stores nowadays, and then boiled, you could probably drink the water safely.
the trick is that the rain water must be carefully handled so that it does not become contaminated.
rain water might be a little bit acid compared to water out of the  ground or from rivers, which are somewhat neutralized from contact with  minerals, so you'd be missing some of those minerals.
the water that comes from the tap in your home at some point in the  past fell as rain water (or snow).
the water that comes from the tap in your home at some point in the past fell as rain water (or snow).
if it runs along the ground, it's anybody's guess what sort of microbes and toxic elements it will pick up.
it may have flowed into the ground to become  part of the groundwater supply, or may have arrived in resevoirs via rivers and  streams.
wendell bechtold, meteorologist weather forecast office, st. louis, mo click here to return to the  weather archives newton is an electronic community  for science, math, and computer science k-12
however,  rainwater contains pollutants, soil, plant parts, insect parts, bacteria,  algae, and sometimes radioactive materials that the rain/snow has washed out of  the air.
other than that, i can't think of why you  shouldn't be drinking it.
the trick is that the rain water must be carefully handled so that it  does not become contaminated.
richard e. barrans jr., ph.d. assistant director pg research foundation, darien, illinois hi joe, the only reason i could think of where you can't drink rain water is if you have no mouth.
replies: joe, normally you could drink rainwater without becoming ill.
vince calder dear joe- most likely, you are drinking rain water..!
there is no essential reason  why you can't drink rain water.
rain water might be a little bit acid compared to water out of the ground or from rivers, which are somewhat neutralized from contact with minerals, so you'd be missing some of those minerals.
educators, sponsored and operated  byargonne national laboratory's educational programs, andrew skipor, ph.d.,  head of educational programs.
in some third world nations, they drain rooftop rain gutters into barrels to collect water for drinking.
vince  calder dear joe- most likely, you are drinking rain  water..!
david cook argonne  national laboratory since ancient times, the only sources of natural  water that are recognized as safe to drink are rain water and water from deep  wells.
but if you put a clean bowl out in the rain to collect the rain water, there's no reason you can't drink the water from it.
replies:  joe, normally you could drink rainwater without becoming ill.
if filtered with one of the filtering systems that you can buy in stores nowadays, and then boiled, you could probably drink the water safely.