- encourage your friends and neighbours to be part of a water-conscious community.
when washing dishes by hand, fill one  sink or basin with soapy water.
replace older, larger-use toilets with the newer ultra-low or dual flush  models.
this will also retain more of the nutrients.
it can save about half the amount of water  you typically use in the shower, while still providing a refreshing, cleansing  shower.
laundry room tips when buying a new clothes washer, consider purchasing a water-saving  model.
- replace older, larger-use toilets with the newer ultra-low or dual flush models.
make suggestions to your employer to save water (and dollars) at work.
- wash only full loads in the dishwasher.
- think about ecoscaping your yard.
city of corner brook 5 park street , p. o. box 1080, corner brook,  nl canada, a2h 6e1 tel: 709-637-1500, fax: 709-637-1625
ecoscaping combines  healthy soil with native and drought-tolerant plants, trees and shrubs to  create attractive, low maintenance, and water efficient landscapes which leave  a small environmental footprint.
insulate your water pipes.
keep a pitcher of water in the refrigerator rather than running tap water  until it is cool enough to drink.
using a bucket  with a sponge plus a trigger nozzle on the hose will save water.
- use the minimum amount of water needed for a bath by closing the drain and the filling the tub only 1/3 full.
bathroom tips - check regularly for any leaks and fix them.
planting add two to four inches of organic material, such as peat or compost, to  the soil.
- use native and adaptive plants; they will use less water and be resistant to local plant diseases and pests.
it can cause yellowing leaves or poor plant health.
- when buying a new dishwasher, consider purchasing a water-saving model.
using a bucket with a sponge plus a trigger nozzle on the hose will save water.
greater soil depth will increase the ability of the soil to retain moisture.
- make suggestions to your employer to save water (and dollars) at work.
turn the tap water off while brushing your teeth, shaving, or washing  your face.
residents > environment > water conservation > household water conservation tips - animals - building & development - community groups/events - education - environment sustainable developmentcity hallcommunity educationwaste mangementwater conservation household water conservation tipshousehold leak detection partners for climate protectionanti-litter campaignbuy local transportationenvironmental contactsgreen tips - fire/emergency services - garbage & recycling - health services - municipal police - newcomer's guide - parks & recreation - property & land - roads - sewer & wastewater - tax - transit - water - forms and applications household water conservation tips kitchen tips - install a low-flow faucet aerator, which can cut water use in half.
set sprinklers to water the lawn, not sidewalks and driveways.
in the summer, lawn watering and other outdoor uses can account for a  large percent of home water use.
you will get hot water faster plus avoid wasting water while it heats up.
- teach your children to turn the faucets off tightly after each use.
studies show that as much as half of this outdoor use is wasteful.
use a broom instead of a hose to clean your driveway or sidewalk and save  water every time.
do not overwater your landscape.
city of corner brook 5 park street , p. o. box 1080, corner brook, nl canada, a2h 6e1 tel: 709-637-1500, fax: 709-637-1625 search ~ site map newfoundland website design by: immediac in association withyield communications
keep your rain barrel covered to prevent mosquitoes breeding and for safety reasons.
you will get hot water faster plus avoid  wasting water while it heats up.
most common bathroom leaks  are found in faucets and in and around toilets.
check your sprinkler or irrigation systems regularly for any leaks, and  fix them.
- soak pots and pans before washing.
laundry room tips - when buying a new clothes washer, consider purchasing a water-saving model.
- set sprinklers to water the lawn, not sidewalks and driveways.
- use a rain barrel -
rain water is actually better for your plants as it does not contain any  chlorine and is at ambient temperature.
encourage your school system and local government to help develop and  promote a water conservation ethic among children and adults.
it can cause yellowing leaves or poor  plant health.
- do not overwater your landscape.
when buying a new dishwasher, consider purchasing a water-saving model.
encourage your friends and neighbours to be part of a water-conscious  community.
use this water as an alternative to turning on the hose for  newly transplanted material, window boxes, flower pots and container gardens.
even if savings are small,  every drop counts!
be sure your hose has an automatic shutoff nozzle to ensure water is not  wasted when the hose is left unattended.
studies show that as much as half of this  outdoor use is wasteful.
planting - add two to four inches of organic material, such as peat or compost, to the soil.
give plants only the amount of water that they need.
collect rain water in an old barrel or other large  container that is outfitted with a tap and a suitable cover, and use the water  on your garden.
in the summer, lawn watering and other outdoor uses can account for a large percent of home water use.
home > residents > environment > water conservation > household water conservation tips household water conservation tips kitchen tips install a low-flow faucet aerator, which can cut water use in half.
collect rain water in an old barrel or other large container that is outfitted with a tap and a suitable cover, and use the water on your garden.
- we are more likely to notice leaky faucets indoors, but do not forget to check outdoor faucets, pipes, and hoses for leaks.
most common bathroom leaks are found in faucets and in and around toilets.
cook food in as little water as possible.
even if savings are small, every drop counts!
wash only full loads in the clothes washer.
put food coloring in your  toilet tank.
keep your rain barrel covered to  prevent mosquitoes breeding and for safety reasons.
bizpal business directory business districts community profile economic strategy infrastructure/services investing incentives labour force land & real estate projects photo contest spotlight on business start/
- check your sprinkler or irrigation systems regularly for any leaks, and fix them.
if it seeps into the toilet bowl, you have a leak.
use native and adaptive plants; they will use less water and be resistant  to local plant diseases and pests.
- install a low-flow showerhead.
- be sure your hose has an automatic shutoff nozzle to ensure water is not wasted when the hose is left unattended.
think about ecoscaping your yard.
install a low-flow showerhead.
use this water as an alternative to turning on the hose for newly transplanted material, window boxes, flower pots and container gardens.
put food coloring in your toilet tank.
- insulate your water pipes.
rain water is actually better for your plants as it does not contain any chlorine and is at ambient temperature.
ecoscaping combines healthy soil with native and drought-tolerant plants, trees and shrubs to create attractive, low maintenance, and water efficient landscapes which leave a small environmental footprint.
wash only full loads in the dishwasher.
do one thing each day that will save water.
- take a five-minute shower.
take a five-minute shower.
greater soil depth will increase the ability of the soil to retain  moisture.
soak pots and pans before washing.
this will also retain more of  the nutrients.
teach your children to turn the faucets off tightly after each use.
- cook food in as little water as possible.
- keep a pitcher of water in the refrigerator rather than running tap water until it is cool enough to drink.
- fill the basin or a pan with water to wash fruits and vegetables.
- do one thing each day that will save water.
- turn the tap water off while brushing your teeth, shaving, or washing your face.
fill the basin or a pan with water to wash fruits and vegetables.
car washing using a running hose to wash your car can waste water.
- use a broom instead of a hose to clean your driveway or sidewalk and save water every time.
bathroom tips check regularly for any leaks and fix them.
car washing - using a running hose to wash your car can waste water.
expand a business support agencies tax transportation accommodations arts and culture attractions explore the region fast facts & history festivals and events getting around getting here meetings & conventions parks and trails recreation restaurants shopping tours guides charters tourist information access to information budget bylaws city departments council election email updates human resources legislation news releases notices planning & development policies projects & initiatives tenders & rfp animals building & development community groups/events education environment fire/emergency services garbage & recycling health services municipal police newcomer's guide parks & recreation property & land roads sewer & wastewater tax transit water forms and applications - home - contact - residents - business - visitors - city hall local: (709) noskype 637-1500 quick links contact mayor or council find a business find a staff person get a building permit get travel information search home >
it can save about half the amount of water you typically use in the shower, while still providing a refreshing, cleansing shower.
- wash only full loads in the clothes washer.
- encourage your school system and local government to help develop and promote a water conservation ethic among children and adults.
use the minimum amount of water needed for a bath by closing the drain  and the filling the tub only 1/3 full.
we are more likely to notice leaky faucets indoors, but do not forget to  check outdoor faucets, pipes, and hoses for leaks.
when washing dishes by hand, fill one sink or basin with soapy water.