our complete tap analysis is available by clicking right here.
frequency of analysis depends on the parameter or contaminant being measured.
bottom line… what does it say?
the report tells you, basically, how your water is treated, where it comes from – potomac or patuxent rivers - and the range and level of detection of any of the nearly 200 substances we test for in the water.
is my tap water safe to drink?
the strong bleachy odor is not an  indication of increased chlorine.
due to rain, ice and snowstorms, river conditions can produce strong bleachy odors and musty/earthy odors.
that water tends to be more soft.
is my water safe for bathing and washing clothes?
how often do you test the water?
frequency of analysis depends on the parameter or contaminant being  measured.
the  results of this monitoring indicated that our cryptosporidium levels in both of  our source waters are at low levels and that we do not need additional  treatment to address the risk associated with these levels.
we also conducted some special monitoring during the same period researching sources of cryptosporidium within the potomac watershed, which we've used to help focus source protection programs we are working on with regional partners.
however, under certain  circumstances, chloramines produce a very strong bleachy odor.
as part of the safe drinking water act, the united states environmental  protection agency (usepa) wants to make certain that every consumer of tap  water in the usa has information on the water you are drinking.
customers living in the hatched area on the map, roughly silver spring to landover, are receiving a blend of the water from both plants.
chloramines are not harmful and in fact are used by some utilities as the primary disinfectant.
there are no  adverse health affects from the odor.
in spite of the low risk, as an extra precaution wssc is taking the most  important steps in protecting against cryptosporidium, which include  maintaining effective coagulation and filtration processes in our water  treatment plants as well as adding uv disinfection equipment to both our water  treatment plants.
is my water soft or hard?
at wssc, we have never had a  violation of any of the water quality standards set byusepa.
chloramines are not harmful and in fact  are used by some utilities as the primary disinfectant.
for example, dozens of samples per day are tested for bacteria, but some rare exotic pesticides are monitored merely quarterly.
others are monitored  hourly, or daily, or weekly, and so forth.
currently, we are not routinely monitoring for cryptosporidium based on the fact that our risk appears low and because we are not required to do so, but we are planning for an additional two years of monitoring beginning in 2015 as required by epa.
because most utilities in the area draw from the same source – the potomac river - and use similar treatment processes, there is little difference.
there are no adverse health affects from the odor.
the odor is a result of the combination of  the chlorine used to disinfect and ammonia in the runoff water (rain, melting  snow and ice) producing chloramines.
it, too, can be expected to contain trace amounts of some contaminants.
we monitored our potomac and patuxent source waters on a monthly or twice  per month basis between october 2006 and september 2008 as required by epa.
others are monitored hourly, or daily, or weekly, and so forth.
wssc e-services pay your bill frequently asked questions customer notification system hot topics start / stop service news releases labworks (limsweb)
the results of this monitoring indicated that our cryptosporidium levels in both of our source waters are at low levels and that we do not need additional treatment to address the risk associated with these levels.
how does our water compare to neighboring water utilities –  especially northern virginia?
should i drink bottled water instead?
your tap water is very safe to drink.
because infants are particularly vulnerable to any organism in the water,  the usepa recommends that water used for baby’s formula be boiled before  it is used.
some are measured constantly in real time.
in spite of the low risk, as an extra precaution wssc is taking the most important steps in protecting against cryptosporidium, which include maintaining effective coagulation and filtration processes in our water treatment plants as well as adding uv disinfection equipment to both our water treatment plants.
the odor is a result of the combination of the chlorine used to disinfect and ammonia in the runoff water (rain, melting snow and ice) producing chloramines.
because most utilities in the area draw from the same source – the  potomac river - and use similar treatment processes, there is little difference.
do you test for cryptosporidium?
it, too, can be expected to contain  trace amounts of some contaminants.
we monitored our potomac and patuxent source waters on a monthly or twice per month basis between october 2006 and september 2008 as required by epa.
because infants are particularly vulnerable to any organism in the water, the usepa recommends that water used for baby’s formula be boiled before it is used.
due to rain, ice and snowstorms, river conditions can produce strong  bleachy odors and musty/earthy odors.
if you live in laurel, greenbelt or beltsville, you are probably drinking water from the patuxent water filtration plant.
our complete tap analysis is available by clicking right here.
however, under certain circumstances, chloramines produce a very strong bleachy odor.
sitemap  |   jobs  |   contact us  |   privacy policy © 2011 washington suburban  sanitary commission    14501 sweitzer lane      laurel,  maryland 20707
how can i find out about all of the parameters for which you test?
the standards for  bottled water are set by thefood and drug administration and it undergoes much  less stringent testing than does tap water.
the strong bleachy odor is not an indication of increased chlorine.
if you live in laurel,  greenbelt or beltsville, you are probably drinking water from the patuxent  water filtration plant.
we also conducted  some special monitoring during the same period researching sources of  cryptosporidium within the potomac watershed, which we've used to help focus  source protection programs we are working on with regional partners.
yes, unconditionally so.
the standards for bottled water are set by thefood and drug administration and it undergoes much less stringent testing than does tap water.
can i use my tap water to make my baby’s formula?
why am i receiving this report?
most of our customers receive their water from the potomac water filtration plant, and that water tends to be moderately hard.
why does my water smell bleachy or musty?
customers living in  the hatched area on the map, roughly silver spring to landover, are receiving a  blend of the water from both plants.
at wssc, we have never had a violation of any of the water quality standards set byusepa.
i don’t have time to read the  whole thing, and don’t think i’ll understand it.
the report tells you, basically, how your water is treated, where it comes  from – potomac or patuxent rivers - and the range and level of detection  of any of the nearly 200 substances we test for in the water.
most of our customers receive their water from the potomac water filtration  plant, and that water tends to be moderately hard.
currently,  we are not routinely monitoring for cryptosporidium based on the fact that our  risk appears low and because we are not required to do so, but we are planning  for an additional two years of monitoring beginning in 2015 as required by epa.
translate this website to: as part of the safe drinking water act, the united states environmental protection agency (usepa) wants to make certain that every consumer of tap water in the usa has information on the water you are drinking.
home > water > water quality  reports > water quality faqs water quality reports -  frequently asked questions why am i receiving this report?
for example, dozens of samples per  day are tested for bacteria, but some rare exotic pesticides are monitored  merely quarterly.