of all the earth’s water, 97% is salt water found in oceans and seas.
one inch of rainfall drops 7,000 gallons or nearly 30 tons of water on a  60’ by 180’ piece of land.
the use of water-saving toilets, showerheads, and faucet aerators can result in a 45% savings in water use.
if it  stays flat, it does need water.
that’s enough pipe to circle the earth 40  times.
aerators on yours faucets can significantly reduce water  volume; water-saving showerheads can cut the volume of water used down to 1.2  gallons per minute or less.
how it works nat'l capital area awards book of evidence guidelines state submission guidelines awards scale of points newsletter guidelines  yearbook preparation planning flower show award of honor youth contests ngc  wildlfower proj.
naturalize your lawn using locally appropriate plants that are hardy and don’t need a lot of water.
each person needs to drink about 2 ½ quarts (80 ounces) of water  every day.
use a broom to clean  leaves and other debris from these areas.
cultivate good water habits all the water that goes down the drain, clean or dirty, ends up mixing with  raw sewage, getting contaminated, and meeting the same fate.
you use about 5 gallons of water if you leave the water running while brushing your teeth or shaving.
if you want to carry water with you, use a refillable bottle.
less than 2% of the earth’s water supply is fresh water.
industries released 197 million pounds of toxic chemicals into waterways in  1990.
a leaking  toilet can use 90,000 gallons of water in a month.
a top-loading clothes washer uses between 40 and 55 gallons of water per  load.
when washing dishes by hand, fill one sink or basin with soapy water.
water from sinks, showers, dishwashers, and  clothes washers are the most common household examples.
one-half acre foot is  enough to meet the needs of a typical family for a year.
﻿ water is life protecting our  world the amount of water on earth now is about the same as it was millions   of years ago.
aerators on yours faucets can significantly reduce water volume; water-saving showerheads can cut the volume of water used down to 1.2 gallons per minute or less.
awards 2010 district awards  2010 aoh
one flush of the toilet uses 6 ½ gallons of water.
bottled water can cost up to 1000 times more than municipal  drinking water.
a person can survive about a month without food, but only 5 to 7 days without water.
running a sprinkler for 2 hours can use up to 500 gallons of water.
one inch of rainfall drops 7,000 gallons or nearly 30 tons of water on a 60’ by 180’ piece of land.
you can reuse this for your houseplants.
stay off the bottle
dispose of tissues, insects and other such waste in the trash rather than the toilet.
use a bowl of water to clean fruits and vegetables rather than running water over them.
showers  account for another 18 percent, while toilets use about 20 percent.
every day in the united states, we drink about 110 million gallons of water.
don’t pout chemicals down drains, or flush drugs down toilets; it could come back in diluted form in your water.
water that has been used at least once but is still clean enough for other jobs is called greywater.
if you step on the grass and  it springs back up when you move, it doesn’t need water.
an automatic dishwasher uses 9 to 12 gallons of water while hand washing dishes can use up to 20 gallons.
don’t be shy about pointing out leaks to your friends and family members, either.
car washes are often more efficient than home washing and the water is treated rather than letting it go straight into the sewer system.
greywater can be recycled with practical plumbing systems (such as aqus) or with simple practices such as emptying the fish tank in the garden instead of the sink.
rain cisterns come in all shapes and sizes ranging from larger underground systems to smaller, freestanding ones.
if you water your grass and trees more heavily, but less often, this saves  water and builds stronger roots.
more than 13 million households get their water from their own private wells and are responsible for treating and pumping the water themselves.
about 800,000 water wells are drilled each year in the united states for domestic, farming, commercial, and water testing purposes.
it takes 3.3 acre feet of water to grow enough food for an average family for a year.
bottled water is not as  well regulated as municipal water and often is not even particularly pure.
an average family of four uses 881 gallons of water per week just by  flushing the toilet.
use a broom to clean leaves and other debris from these areas.
the discarded bottles are a blight in the landscape and the landfill.
source: planet green – a discovery company top of page top of page top of page national garden clubs, inc., believes it is imperative that we support and undertake proactive initiatives for the protection, conservation and restoration of the quality of the nation’s coastal waters, wetlands, aquifers, watersheds, lakes, rivers and streams, through educational programs, conservation efforts, increased advocacy and partnerships with related government agencies, and state and national grassroots water coalitions.
if every household in america had a faucet that dripped once each second, 928 million gallons of water a day would leak away.
rain cisterns come in all shapes and sizes ranging from larger  underground systems to smaller, freestanding ones.
water in the coolest part of the day to  minimize evaporation.
keep your eyes open report broken pipes, open hydrants, and excessive water waste.
water regulates the earth’s temperature.
if every household in america had a faucet that dripped once each second,  928 million gallons of water a day would leak away.
more than 13 million households get their water from their own private  wells and are responsible for treating and pumping the water themselves.
install new fixtures new, low-volume or dual flush toilets, low-flow showerheads, water- efficient dishwashers and clothes washing machines can all save a great deal of  water and money.
at the car wash car washes are often more efficient than home washing and the water is  treated rather than letting it go straight into the sewer system.
industries released 197 million pounds of toxic chemicals into waterways in 1990.
check to make sure that they clean and recycle the later.
using a hose to clean a  driveway uses about 50 gallons of water every 5 minutes.
new, low-volume or dual flush toilets, low-flow showerheads, water- efficient dishwashers and clothes washing machines can all save a great deal of water and money.
water in the coolest part of the day to minimize evaporation.
about 800,000 water wells are drilled each year in the united states for  domestic, farming, commercial, and water testing purposes.
showers account for another 18 percent, while toilets use about 20 percent.
water conservation platform adopted october 4, 2008 home about us tributes award info forms  resources schools councils news calendar advertising advertisers useful  links organization board committees district & clubs a garden club is  membership request form dues-volunteering-donations ngc/c.a.r./ncagc life  memebership scholarships arbor house national garden club projects national garden clubs central atlantic region ncagc
if it stays flat, it does need water.
use a bowl of water to clean fruits and vegetables rather than running  water over them.
only 1% of the earth’s water is available for drinking water.
splurging on a low-flow toilet could save another 50 to 80 gallons of water a day.
drip irrigation is a better choice than using a sprinkler system.
format objectives definition of terms scale of points tips for flower shows stand fs eval small standard fs guidelines fs boe  guidelines fs boe scale of points fss point scale outstanding programs  garden resources plant societies water is life recycling initiatives environmental studies school flower show judge's school gardening studies school landscape design school nca council speakers environmental council  gardening consultants council judges council landscape design council sample schedule instructions keeping in touch_ngc central atlantic region  news ncagc 'the capital gardener' district i district ii news district iii  district iv
harvest your grey water water that has been used at least once but is still clean enough for other  jobs is called greywater.
the discarded bottles are a blight in the landscape and  the landfill.
it also regulates the  temperature of the human body.
front-loading models use roughly half that amount.
300 million gallons of water are needed to produce a single day’s supply of u. s. newsprint.
source: sunnyslope county water district – california a dripping faucet can waste 20 gallons of water a day.
public water suppliers process 38 billion gallons of water per day for domestic and public use.
an average bath requires 37 gallons of water.
a leaking toilet can use 90,000 gallons of water in a month.
get out the wrench and change the washers on your sinks and showers, or get new washer less faucets.
source: sunnyslope county water district – california no drips a dripping faucet can waste 20 gallons of water a day.
if you want to carry water with you, use a refillable  bottle.
use a hose  with a shut-off nozzle for rinsing.
as much as 150 gallons of water can  be saved by turning off the hose between rinses.
300 million gallons of water are needed to produce a single day’s
keeping your existing equipment well maintained is probably the easiest and cheapest way to start saving water.
water sources have to be protected.
(toilet water is  often called “blackwater” and needs a different level of treatment  before it can be used.)
(toilet water is often called “blackwater” and needs a different level of treatment before it can be used.)
upcoming events fern valley north dakota sunrise day lily  california african violet garden council news landscape design council  newsletter arlington rose foundation u.s. national arboretum tudor place  american hort society january february march april may june july august  september october november december
it also regulates the temperature of the human body.
bottled water can cost up to 1000 times more than municipal drinking water.
take short showers instead of baths.
never put water down the drain when there may be another use for it such as  watering a plant or garden, or cleaning.
don’t be shy about pointing out leaks to your friends and family  members, either.
you don’t need to buy bottled water for health reasons if your drinking water meets all of the federal, state and local drinking water standards.
don’t pout chemicals down drains, or  flush drugs down toilets; it could come back in diluted form in your water.
bottled water is more expensive per gallon than gasoline and incurs a huge carbon footprint from it transportation.
splurging on a low-flow toilet could save  another 50 to 80 gallons of water a day.
put a rain barrel on your downspouts and use this water for irrigation.
report broken pipes, open hydrants, and excessive water waste.
they might have turned out the dripping sound a long time ago.
showering and bathing are the largest indoor uses (27%) of water  domestically there are 7.48 gallons in a cubic foot of water.
check  to make sure that they clean and recycle the later.
turn off the water while brushing your teeth or shaving; wash laundry and dishes with full loads; take shorter showers, etc.
if you water your grass and trees more heavily, but less often, this saves water and builds stronger roots.
that’s enough pipe to circle the earth 40 times.
they might have turned out the dripping sound a long  time ago.
one-half acre foot is enough to meet the needs of a typical family for a year.
if you step on the grass and it springs back up when you move, it doesn’t need water.
a dairy cow must drink 4 gallons of water to produce 1 gallon of milk.
use a hose with a shut-off nozzle for rinsing.
in many closed loop systems like those in cities in the greatlakes, waste water is returned to the lake that fresh water comes out of.
water from sinks, showers, dishwashers, and clothes washers are the most common household examples.
national garden clubs, inc.
keeping your existing equipment well maintained is probably the easiest  and cheapest way to start saving water.
quickly rinse under a slow-moving stream from the faucet.
bottled water is more  expensive per gallon than gasoline and incurs a huge carbon footprint from it  transportation.
source:  planet green – a discovery company top of page top of page top of page national garden clubs, inc., believes it is imperative that we support and  undertake proactive initiatives for the protection, conservation and  restoration of the quality of the nation’s coastal waters, wetlands,  aquifers, watersheds, lakes, rivers and streams, through educational programs,  conservation efforts, increased advocacy and partnerships with related  government agencies, and state and national grassroots water coalitions.
together, those changes could cut the household’s daily use of water by nearly one-half – saving a considerable amount of water and money.
an average family of four uses 881 gallons of water per week just by flushing the toilet.
the use of water-saving toilets, showerheads, and faucet aerators can  result in a 45% savings in water use.
don’t spike the punch water sources have to be protected.
get out the wrench and  change the washers on your sinks and showers, or get new washer less faucets.
go beyond the lawn naturalize your lawn using locally appropriate plants that are hardy and  don’t need a lot of water.
the human body is about 75% water.
each person needs to drink about 2 ½ quarts (80 ounces) of water every day.
one way or another, avoid putting water down the drain when you can use it for something else.
approximately 1 million miles of pipelines and aqueducts carry water in the united states and canada.
an acre foot of water is about 326,000 gallons.
when washing a car, use soap and water from a bucket.
together, those changes could  cut the household’s daily use of water by nearly one-half – saving  a considerable amount of water and money.
greywater can be recycled with practical plumbing  systems (such as aqus) or with simple practices such as emptying the fish tank  in the garden instead of the sink.
as much as 150 gallons of water can be saved by turning off the hose between rinses.
bottled water is not as well regulated as municipal water and often is not even particularly pure.
never put water down the drain when there may be another use for it such as watering a plant or garden, or cleaning.
water lawns during the early morning hours or evening when temperatures and wind speed are the lowest.
public water suppliers process 38 billion gallons of water per day for  domestic and public use.
landscaping accounts for about half the water used at home.
home about us tributes award info forms resources schools councils news calendar
the average 5-minute shower takes 15 to 25 gallons water – around 40  gallons are used in 10 minutes.
water lawns during the early morning hours or evening when temperatures and  wind speed are the lowest.
protecting our world the amount of water on earth now is about the same as it was millions of years ago.
up to 90% of water used to sprinkle lawns can be lost to the atmosphere  through evaporation use a rain catch system (rain barrel) and use natural rain water for  watering in the yard do not hose down your driveway or sidewalk.
using a hose to clean a driveway uses about 50 gallons of water every 5 minutes.
you don’t need to buy bottled water for health reasons if your  drinking water meets all of the federal, state and local drinking water  standards.
try to stay aware of this precious resource disappearing.
store drinking water in the refrigerator rather than letting the faucet run every time you want a cool glass of water.
it takes 3.3 acre feet of water to grow enough food for an average family  for a year.
avoid flushing the toilet unnecessarily.
supply of u. s. newsprint.
turn off the water while  brushing your teeth or shaving; wash laundry and dishes with full loads; take  shorter showers, etc.
dispose of tissues, insects  and other such waste in the trash rather than the toilet.
by many measures, bottled water is a scam.
harvest your rainwater put a rain barrel on your downspouts and use this water for irrigation.
run your dishwasher and washing machine only when they are full.
the average 5-minute shower takes 15 to 25 gallons water – around 40 gallons are used in 10 minutes.
you can refill an 8-oz. glass of water approximately 15,000 times for the same cost as a six-pack of soda pop.
much bottled water is just tap water anyway.
drip irrigation is a better choice than using a  sprinkler system.
you can refill an 8-oz. glass of water approximately 15,000 times for the  same cost as a six-pack of soda pop.
therefore, 2000 cubic feet of water is 14,560 gallons.
all the water that goes down the drain, clean or dirty, ends up mixing with raw sewage, getting contaminated, and meeting the same fate.
water your lawn only when it needs it.
store drinking water in the refrigerator rather than letting the faucet run  every time you want a cool glass of water.
approximately 1 million miles of pipelines and aqueducts carry water in the  united states and canada.
therefore, 2000  cubic feet of water is 14,560 gallons.
the remaining 2% is frozen.
this reduces losses from evaporation.
adopted october 4, 2008 back to presidents pkg.
try to stay  aware of this precious resource disappearing.
an automatic dishwasher uses 9 to 12 gallons of water while hand washing  dishes can use up to 20 gallons.
showering and bathing are the largest indoor uses (27%) of water domestically there are 7.48 gallons in a cubic foot of water.
in many closed loop systems like  those in cities in the greatlakes, waste water is returned to the lake that  fresh water comes out of.
you use about 5 gallons of water if you leave the water running while  brushing your teeth or shaving.
a person can survive about a month without food, but only 5 to 7 days  without water.
one way or  another, avoid putting water down the drain when you can use it for something  else.
a leaky faucet can waste 100 gallons a day.
up to 90% of water used to sprinkle lawns can be lost to the atmosphere through evaporation use a rain catch system (rain barrel) and use natural rain water for watering in the yard do not hose down your driveway or sidewalk.
a top-loading clothes washer uses between 40 and 55 gallons of water per load.