they may get it right one day but until then?
and it’s not what i would expect.
your kidneys will do that for you.
[…] too much of a good life – the over-friendly exotics in paradise the green file by dr johan wentzel
reservoirs run dry and all the muck in the bottom gets into the pipes and out of the taps.
well they suck it out of the dam, near the dam wall just below the surface off the shoreline, where the algae and other unspeakables float in the water and get sucked right up.
columns from the other side — 15 september 2011 by rick van rossum water, water, everywhere, not a drop to drink.
no rain in winter, you say, that’s right, so where from?
now that i’ve got your attention, where does the sewage works get the water from, why from the kind people in joburg, where it’s been through their kidneys already.
that’s about it,  don’t think that there are any fancy chemicals or systems that will  filter out pharmaceuticals, chemicals or minerals that could harm you.
well i would rather start with clear and clean water and add whatever minerals i choose to add to my diet, than rely on chance and drink whatever toxic poisons are collected on the way through all the industrial waste and not to forget all that amd, acid mine drainage, everyone is talking about.
and what do we know about all that expensive bottled water everyone is pushing?
the sewage works of joburg of course,  silly.
when we do get water from the taps we worry about drinking it because it looks and tastes like, well you know what.
even right now there are townships in madibeng where the residents have not  had any water in their homes for more than two weeks.
if you’re lucky it’ll get rid of it, if not, don’t ask.
then it’s passed through a sand filter, like  your pool, and when it’s available, some chlorine is put in to kill off  bacteria before it is pushed up to the reservoirs.
when they try to push too much through, the process just doesn’t cope and it is not treated properly.
ever thought where the dam gets its water from in winter?
no rain in winter, you  say, that’s right, so where from?
do you know how they clean that water?
a fancy label doesn’t make it so.
then it’s passed through a sand filter, like your pool, and when it’s available, some chlorine is put in to kill off bacteria before it is pushed up to the reservoirs.
well i’ve often seen it done
sounds familiar,  doesn’t it?
required fields are marked * name * email * website comment you may use these html tags and attributes:              notify me of follow-up comments by email.
even right now there are townships in madibeng where the residents have not had any water in their homes for more than two weeks.
of course we know why, the population has doubled and the water works hasn’t, so there just isn’t enough to go round.
reservoirs run dry and all the muck in the bottom gets into the pipes and  out of the taps.
do you want to know a secret?
in my opinion use one of these reverse osmoses, ro, gadgets with the built in filters that’ll take out the obvious muck, taste and smell, then pushes it through a very fine membrane and you’ll get the best water you can get.
the water is run for a short distance to let some of the sediment settle out, then fine air bubbles are released under it, which gets hold of most of the algae and lets it float to the top where it is scooped off.
notify me of new posts by email.
take care of yourselves, if you can’t be sure of the water from the tap, treat it before you drink it.
kormorant approached renier balt from birdlife hartbeespoort […]
water shortages have become commonplace in summer.
take care of yourselves, if you can’t be sure of the  water from the tap, treat it before you drink it.
they’re ok, they get it from the lesotho mountains, nice and clean, most of the time.
when they try to push too much through,  the process just doesn’t cope and it is not treated properly.
your  kidneys will do that for you.
many exotic plants classified as unfriendly to our environment were brought in from overseasas exterior decorators in the past – that means most of them are beautiful.
water shortages have  become commonplace in summer.
better to be safe than sorry.
well i’ve often seen it done and it’s not what i would expect.
it all comes down  the crocodile river, night and day, summer or winter.
given the huge service delivery challenges, it is difficult for the madibeng municipality to choose between paying its debt and building roads and providing water and other services, the mayor said during a meeting with the […] rare flamingo sighting in hartbeespoort a birdwood resident isobel krige was amazed last week when she saw these more than 50 flamingos flying over the birdwood and meerhof area and grabbed her camera to record this unusual sight.
well i would rather start with clear and clean water and add whatever  minerals i choose to add to my diet, than rely on chance and drink whatever  toxic poisons are collected on the way through all the industrial waste and not  to forget all that amd, acid mine drainage, everyone is talking about.
by rick van rossum water, water, everywhere, not a drop to drink.
at hartbeespoort we know all about it.
in many circles, even today, gardening […] difficult choice between paying debt and building roads, providing services – mayor left:madibeng mayor poppy magongwa
the sewage works of joburg of course, silly.
why is there muck, it’s because the water wasn’t  cleaned properly in the first place.
all about the jones’ “don’t judge a book by its cover”, “appearances can be deceitful”, and maybe the most fitting of all “people who live in glass houses should not throw stones”, all came to mind this week when a student was told her […] the dutchman who won’t give in left: hartbeespoort around 1835 depicted in a watercolour by charles donaldson bell, the official illustrator on dr andrew smith’s expedition to the interior.
oh i know the stories about, “it’s not good to remove all the minerals”.
what you do with the stuff is up to your system.
of course we  know why, the population has doubled and the water works hasn’t, so there  just isn’t enough to go round.
do you know where they get the water from to treat and push up to the reservoir?
oh i know the stories about, “it’s not good to remove all the  minerals”.
the water is run for a short distance  to let some of the sediment settle out, then fine air bubbles are released  under it, which gets hold of most of the algae and lets it float to the top  where it is scooped off.
why is there muck, it’s because the water wasn’t cleaned properly in the first place.
sounds familiar, doesn’t it?
but you never know, do you?
of course they should be cleaned out regularly but they’re not.
they’re ok, they get it from the lesotho  mountains, nice and clean, most of the time.
your email address will not be published.
it all comes down the crocodile river, night and day, summer or winter.
when we do get water from  the taps we worry about drinking it because it looks and tastes like, well you  know what.
this is the view from the south and most of the foreground today is under water.
do you know  where they get the water from to treat and push up to the reservoir?
is it really fit to drink?
of course they should be cleaned out regularly but  they’re not.
in my opinion use one of  these reverse osmoses, ro, gadgets with the built in filters that’ll take  out the obvious muck, taste and smell, then pushes it through a very fine  membrane and you’ll get the best water you can get.
now that i’ve got your attention, where does the sewage works get  the water from, why from the kind people in joburg, where it’s been  through their kidneys already.
that’s about it, don’t think that there are any fancy chemicals or systems that will filter out pharmaceuticals, chemicals or minerals that could harm you.
share this: no related posts.
well they  suck it out of the dam, near the dam wall just below the surface off the  shoreline, where the algae and other unspeakables float in the water and get  sucked right up.