what about people who had to work in the rain?
valid comparison submitted by newport beach houses (not verified)
what about  sludge that is collected from water treatment plants after a rain.
i was lulled into a faulse sense of  security by the numbers reported here.
would not this sludge contain higher radiation as it did in places like scotland?
this raises a couple of problems in  comparing berkeley rain water with tap water.
my area has a lake/reservoir system that was mostly recarged by the recent heavy rains.
agreed submitted by anonymous (not verified) on wed, 2011-04-06  08:57.
i was lulled into a faulse sense of security by the numbers reported here.
is it ok to drink this rainwater?
how about after tonight/tomorrow morning's predicted rains?
i just feel that discarding the highest measurement, the one found in rainwater to be flip.
many communities in the bay area, from the central valley and walnut creek to mill valley to san jose do not get their water from the far away frozen sierras.
can you test any local reservoir water (or even lake temescal or grand lake for that matter)?
or at least acknowledge that there is a disconnect between local rainwater measurements and distant tap water measurements.
comment from the team?
taking one sample from one location can be very misleading.
although inconvenient, a more valid comparison would be to take samples from local reservoirs (marin county has several) to compare to air/rainfall.
i don't see diatribes or conspiratorial rants.
is anyone on the team willing to tackle this problem?
regarding the validity of tap water measurements: as best i can determine,  ucb gets it's tap water from ebmud, which gets its water from sources far from  berkeley.
› this seems to be a valid question.
uc berkeley • college of engineering • contact campanile photo courtesy ofandrew p. keating
submitted by anonymous (not verified) on wed,  2011-04-06 21:44.
i hope someone knowledgeable responds to some of these questions.
submitted by anonymous (not verified) on  wed, 2011-04-06 07:07.
this seems to be a valid question.
sources of tap water vs. rainwater submitted by anonymous on tue,  2011-04-05 11:44 berkeley radiological air and water monitoring forum first, great appreciation to the staff for all your work in keeping the  public informed.
thanks again for your good work.
many communities in the bay area, from the  central valley and walnut creek to mill valley to san jose do not get their  water from the far away frozen sierras.
did it not drop into reservoirs where we will eventually be drinking tapwater that is made of rainwater?
i use solar power and rainwater for a lot of my h2o needs.
can you test any local reservoir water  (or even lake temescal or grand lake for that matter)?
› this seems legit submitted by anonymous (not verified) on thu,  2011-04-07 07:08.
can i bathe in it if i collect rainwater?
i hope someone knowledgeable responds to some of  these questions.
i am sure a more valid comparison would be to take samples from local reservoirs (marin county has several) to compare to air/rainfall is anyone on the team willing to tackle this problem?
the sources are apparently in the sierra nevada mountains, where there is record snow pack this year.
the amount of dilution is impossible to tell, as there may be a delay in transport (water "in the pipeline"); and 3.
this is an incredible public service.
gerry ‹ email warning of radioactive rain was released by fire  department but later labeled as hoax email  cs-134 and cs-137 in milk?
this raises a couple of problems in comparing berkeley rain water with tap water.
in light of the announcement on the log page entitled "response to  some misleading claims about our measurements", could someone from the  team comment on the points here?
the rainfall in the sierra may not have even reached the water sources constituting the tap water tested; for example, the recent rains may still be unmelted snow; 2.
i am a little confused by the  update today as well where you state that tap water is what we should be  focusing on.
this is a very good point.
on thu, 2011-04-07 00:24.
or at least  acknowledge that there is a disconnect between local rainwater measurements and  distant tap water measurements.
how about after  tonight/tomorrow morning's predicted rains?
i just feel that discarding the highest measurement, the one  found in rainwater to be flip.
gerry‹ email warning of radioactive rain was released by fire department but later labeled as hoax email cs-134 and cs-137 in milk?
i don't see diatribes or conspiratorial  rants.
i use solar power and rainwater for a  lot of my h2o needs.
anyone care to answer?
first, great appreciation to the staff for all your work in keeping the public informed.
i am sure a more valid comparison would be to take samples from local  reservoirs (marin county has several) to compare to air/rainfall response?
would not  this sludge contain higher radiation as it did in places like scotland?
thanks ucb for this data and your hard work.
the rainfall a hundred or more miles away may not have  the same content as that in berkeley.
would it help if someone brought you samples?
would it help if someone brought  you samples?
the rainfall in the sierra may  not have even reached the water sources constituting the tap water tested; for  example, the recent rains may still be unmelted snow; 2.
my area has a lake/reservoir system that was  mostly recarged by the recent heavy rains.
i am a little confused by the update today as well where you state that tap water is what we should be focusing on.
in light of the announcement on the log page entitled "response to some misleading claims about our measurements", could someone from the team comment on the points here?
bottom line, depending on where your water comes from, you could be getting water that is closer to the rain water than the drinking water figures here.
although inconvenient, a more valid comparison would be to take samples  from local reservoirs (marin county has several) to compare to air/rainfall.
i see legitimate questions.
the sources are apparently in the sierra nevada mountains, where  there is record snow pack this year.
regarding the validity of tap water measurements: as best i can determine, ucb gets it's tap water from ebmud, which gets its water from sources far from berkeley.
the amount of dilution  is impossible to tell, as there may be a delay in transport (water "in the  pipeline"); and 3.
submitted by anonymous (not verified)  on tue, 2011-04-05 11:59.
bottom line, depending on where your  water comes from, you could be getting water that is closer to the rain water  than the drinking water figures here.
the rainfall a hundred or more miles away may not have the same content as that in berkeley.
did it  not drop into reservoirs where we will eventually be drinking tapwater that is  made of rainwater?
what about sludge that is collected from water treatment plants after a rain.
why is rainwater not important?