save water in the garden using water in the garden accounts for around 7% of the total water use of  your home, but in summer when the weather is warmer this can rise to over 50%.
if you can, shut off the supply to your outside tap during the winter and  drain it.
use a  water butt to collect rainfall for watering the garden.
5,000 litres of rainwater per year.
legal accessibility sitemap follow us
use a water butt to collect rainfall for watering the garden.
- a hosepipe uses around 10 litres of water per minute.
- fit insulation to exposed water pipes to prevent them freezing and bursting.
scottish water - always serving scotland skip to main content back to homepage - for domestic customers - for business customers - contact us - current service updates - report a problem search - you and your home - - be prepared for winter - be prepared for winter - heat, insulate and protect your pipes - follow our how to guides to protect your pipes
if you must use a hosepipe fit it with a trigger nozzle so it only runs  when you need it.
collect rain water - use a water butt plants prefer rainwater to tap  water, so the more rainwater you can store in your garden the better.
related content water efficiency tips about using water wisely - use our water calculator to find out how much water you use around the home.
use a bucket and sponge instead of a hosepipe to wash the car.
in just one hour, it  gets through almost as much as the average person would use in a week.
this winter - septic tank emptying - about septic tank emptying - septic tank visits - service charges - looking after your septic tank - septic tank emptying application form - your questions answered - your charges - 2011 - 2012 charges - septic tank charges - your home - pipework responsibility - water efficiency - beat
save water in the kitchen how to save water when you're cooking in the kitchen or making a quick cup of tea - water calculator - water efficiency downloads calculate the energy and water you use around the home with our calculator you and your home - be prepared for winter - pipework responsibility - your charges - your water quality - water and your health investment and communities about us - current vacancies - key publications - latest press releases our customer contact centre is open 24 hours a day, 7 days a week call our customer helpline on 0845
scottish water limited.
- use a brush to clean paths, patios and driveways, not a hose.
in just one hour, it gets through almost as much as the average person would use in a week.
if there's no water in the pipe, it can't freeze and burst.
plus if you water early in the morning or late in the evening less of the water you use will evaporate and more will go to the plant roots.
a hosepipe uses around 10 litres of water per minute.
- water quality factsheets - your health - british dental foundation accreditation - dehydration - drink water to stay healthy - investment & communities - - consultations - alnwickhill community consultation - stepps community consultation - investment projects - airdrie environmental improvements - ayrshire investment - dalmuir - glencorse - loch ryan - metropolitan glasgow strategic drainage partnership - seafield - volunteering - about volunteering - case studies - about us - - the board and management team - executive leadership team - board members - careers - current vacancies - graduate scheme - modern apprentices - work placements - corporate responsibility - climate change - wateraid - freedom of information - freedom of information - governance - key facts - public meetings - publications - key publications - video library - video library - press releases - latest press releases - press team a a a - home - > you and your home - > water efficiency water efficiency in the garden use water wisely outside use a watering can instead of a hosepipe use a watering can instead of a hosepipe to give your plants a drink - it's more accurate, placing the water where it does most good.
collect rain water - use a water butt plants prefer rainwater to tap water, so the more rainwater you can store in your garden the better.
this is one of the easiest ways to reduce using tap water in your garden and plants actually prefer rainwater!
it is usually  under the sink, in the hall, bathroom or garage.
don't waste water on paths and patios - if it doesn't grow, don't water it!
fit insulation to exposed water pipes to prevent them freezing and  bursting.
water efficiency in the garden use water wisely outside use a watering can instead of a hosepipe use a watering can instead of a hosepipe to give your plants a drink - it's  more accurate, placing the water where it does most good.
a garden sprinkler uses around 15 litres/min.
often a new washer is all you need to fix a leaking tap - check your  outside tap for drips and replace a worn-out washer
- often a new washer is all you need to fix a leaking tap - check your outside tap for drips and replace a worn-out washer install a water butt your roof collects tens of thousands of litres of rainwater every year, which can be collected in the yourwater butt to give you a ready supply for watering your plants.
- use a bucket and sponge instead of a hosepipe to wash the car.
- don't waste water on paths and patios - if it doesn't grow, don't water it!
in case of a burst, make sure you know whereyour stop valve is located.
it is usually under the sink, in the hall, bathroom or garage.
this is one of the easiest ways to reduce using tap water  in your garden and plants actually prefer rainwater!
a standard water butt can collect approx.
save water in the kitchen how to save water when you're cooking in the kitchen or making a quick cup  of tea water calculator calculate the energy and water you use around the home with our  calculator you and your home
the bogus caller - save your drains - thinking about a water meter? - homeserve - water quality - where water comes from - where does water go?
- if you can, shut off the supply to your outside tap during the winter and drain it.
plus if you water  early in the morning or late in the evening less of the water you use will  evaporate and more will go to the plant roots.
related content water efficiency tips about using water wisely - use our water calculator to find out how  much water you use around the home.
- a garden sprinkler uses around 15 litres/min.
write to us at scottish water, po box 8855, edinburgh, eh10 6yq email: customer.service@scottishwater.co.uk get in touch with us here copyright 2011
save water in the garden using water in the garden accounts for around 7% of the total water use of your home, but in summer when the weather is warmer this can rise to over 50%.
use a brush to clean paths, patios and driveways, not a hose.
a standard water butt  can collect approx.
water butts use water butts to collect rainfall in your garden save water in the bathroom helpful tips on how to save water in the bathroom
if you must use a hosepipe fit it with a trigger nozzle so it only runs when you need it.
install a water butt your roof collects tens of thousands of litres of rainwater every year,  which can be collected in the yourwater butt to give you a ready supply for  watering your plants.
in case of a  burst, make sure you know whereyour stop valve is located.