not all plants  come with the care instructions.
if your water is supplied by a well, you may have a water softener system  in your home.
you are left with clean water that is better for your plants.
if you have hard water, you will want to use distilled water for your house plants.
these systems are great for removing the hardness from the well  water.
in general, blooming plants and those with a lot of foliage  require more water than plants with less foliage.
it’s important to water your plants properly, whether you are using distilled or tap water.
rain water works well for making  distilled water as long as the water is not too acidic.
these systems are great for removing the hardness from the well water.
if you will  be using rain water, place a clean container outside to catch the rain.
why distilled is better than tap water tap water contains chemicals, such as chlorine, that are used to treat the  public water supply.
you may have to look up the information in a book or online.
if you have houseplants, you may want to water them with distilled water.
chemicals aren’t the only tap water problem.
this water contains heavy concentrations of salts, which hinder the growth of  your plants.
leave  the container outside for two days to allow the chlorine or other minerals to  dissipate.
these salts are very damaging to your plants.
the process of distillation removes minerals and chemicals from water.
the heat causes the air in the home to become dry, which causes the water in the plants to evaporate faster.
you can either use tap water or catch rain water in a bucket or barrel.
the water can get very hot in the summer or quite cold in the colder months.
you can purchase distilled water at the grocery store or make your own distilled water at home.
if the rain water in your area tends to be acidic, you are better off using tap water.
watering with distilled water
the effect of the chemicals is more profound on your house plants than in your outdoor plants.
the salts can actually kill the plants along with your grass.
if your water is supplied by a well, you may have a water softener system in your home.
some plants are very sensitive to the minerals in hard water.
some plants are very sensitive to the  minerals in hard water.
the reason is the chemicals in the water build up in the soil and aren’t washed away by rain, as happens with outdoor plants.
improper watering leads to a weak root system.
if you have softened well water, you will want to use distilled water on both your indoor and outdoor plants.
very hot or very cold water can shock the roots and damage, or even kill your house plants.
the hardness of the water can also impact your plants.
when the heat  is on in the winter months, you may notice your plants get thirsty faster.
rain water works well for making distilled water as long as the water is not too acidic.
if you make your own water and leave it outside for distillation, bring it back in the house and allow it to reach room temperature.
you may have to look up the information in a  book or online.
this water contains heavy concentrations of salts, which hinder the growth of your plants.
this weakens the plant and makes it more vulnerable to disease.
these chemicals are damaging to plants.
you can make your own distilled water at home.
very hot or  very cold water can shock the roots and damage, or even kill your house plants.
this is because the water tends to evaporate faster at higher temperatures.
when the temperature is higher, the plants will need more water.
the water  can get very hot in the summer or quite cold in the colder months.
the  heat causes the air in the home to become dry, which causes the water in the  plants to evaporate faster.
you are  left with clean water that is better for your plants.
the temperature in the house will impact the plants as well as the outdoor temperature.
tap water contains chemicals, such as chlorine, that are used to treat the public water supply.
home > your home > gardening & plants  >general > articles watering plants with distilled water quick links landscaping general info if you have houseplants, you may want to water them with distilled water.
the reason is the chemicals in the water build up in the soil and aren’t  washed away by rain, as happens with outdoor plants.
this is because the  water tends to evaporate faster at higher temperatures.
acids  don’t dissipate well and can damage your plants.
the softened water contains a high level of salt combined with a low level of important nutrients such as calcium and magnesium, which impedes growth.
you can store some of the water in clean, gallon size jugs for later use.
you can purchase distilled water at the grocery store or make your own  distilled water at home.
the outdoor plants are affected by softened water much more than by tap water supplied by your local community.
directions for care come with many houseplants.
it’s important to water your plants properly, whether you are using  distilled or tap water.
all plants benefit from  the use of distilled water, but it is even more important for indoor plants.
in general, blooming plants and those with a lot of foliage require more water than plants with less foliage.
tropical and woodland plants need less water than plants from dry areas.
the effect of the  chemicals is more profound on your house plants than in your outdoor plants.
the softened water contains a  high level of salt combined with a low level of important nutrients such as  calcium and magnesium, which impedes growth.
you can store some of  the water in clean, gallon size jugs for later use.
acids don’t dissipate well and can damage your plants.
softeners use salts, such as sodium or potassium in the recycling process.
the season will also impact the water needs of your plants.
if you have softened well water, you will want to use distilled water on  both your indoor and outdoor plants.
the temperature in the  house will impact the plants as well as the outdoor temperature.
this material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.
the hardness of the  water can also impact your plants.
fill the container with water from the tap and set it outside.
if you have hard water, you will want to use  distilled water for your house plants.
if not watered properly, it won’t matter what type of water you are using.
follow the  directions for watering your plants to be sure you are watering each of your  plants properly.
when the  temperature is higher, the plants will need more water.
hard water is most often an issue with well water, but can be a problem with a municipal water supply as well.
when using distilled water on your plants, be sure the water is room temperature.
you can either use tap water  or catch rain water in a bucket or barrel.
making your own distilled water you can make your own distilled water at home.
if you will be using rain water, place a clean container outside to catch the rain.
your soaps and shampoos will work better and there is less staining of  your appliances and sinks.
when the heat is on in the winter months, you may notice your plants get thirsty faster.
your soaps and shampoos will work better and there is less staining of your appliances and sinks.
© 2012 professors house.
if you make your own water and leave it outside for distillation,  bring it back in the house and allow it to reach room temperature.
hard water is most often an issue with well water, but  can be a problem with a municipal water supply as well.
these are usually printed on plastic stakes that are placed in the soil inside the pot.
these are usually printed  on plastic stakes that are placed in the soil inside the pot.
the water is then ready to use on your plants.
follow the directions for watering your plants to be sure you are watering each of your plants properly.
if the rain water in  your area tends to be acidic, you are better off using tap water.
not all plants come with the care instructions.
the outdoor plants are affected by  softened water much more than by tap water supplied by your local community.
tropical and woodland plants  need less water than plants from dry areas.
if not watered properly, it won’t matter what  type of water you are using.
leave the container outside for two days to allow the chlorine or other minerals to dissipate.
all plants benefit from the use of distilled water, but it is even more important for indoor plants.
however, the softener is not good for your plants.
when using distilled water on your plants, be sure the water is room