when this data is formatted into html, it becomes very difficult to recover the original structured data.
microsoft's new personalised search engine, emporia, is in prototype stage and is expected to be launched soon.
news in your inbox topics: search engine, google, yahoo other articles published on june 3, 2011 tweet google +1 button: just click & share thursday, june 2, 2011,13:54
read more google sms for mobile users in india tuesday, october 9, 2007,17:10  [ist] bangalore, oct 9: google announced today the launch of google sms  for mobile users in india.
with schema.org, site owners and developers can learn about structured data and improve how their sites appear on major search engines.
google, yahoo and bing announced the launch of a new initiative called schema.org.
making the schema.org more relevant, google introduced schemas for more than a hundred new categories, including movies, music, organizations, tv shows, products, places and more.
[ist] san francisco, jun 2: just a day after the  micro-blogging website twitter unveiled its 'follow button', search engine  giant google rolled out its new feature dubbed as '+1 button' that helps users  to recommend search results to their friends directly from google search  engine.
[5goog] from their  mobile phones.
amit advised publishers to continue.....
"schema.org aims to be a one stop resource for webmasters looking to add markup to their pages," google said in itsblog.
on-page markup enable search engines to understand the information on web pages and provide richer search results in order to make it easier for users to find relevant information on the web.
the intelligence to provide search results based on individual needs makes microsoft emporia different from other browsers available in the market.
[ist] san francisco, jun 2: just a day after the micro-blogging website twitter unveiled its 'follow button', search engine giant google rolled out its new feature dubbed as '+1 button' that helps users to recommend search results to their friends directly from google search engine.
[ javascript must be enabled to view and post comments.
it's more interesting that the google started this service amid the controversy over facebook's hiring of a pr company to spread sully stories about google"s use of people"s private information to.....
read more google gives tips to overcome panda algorithm update saturday, may 7, 2011,13:55
google, which introduced the +1 button in mar 2011, also allows  third-party websites to integrate the +1 button to their sites.
- all internet users at 49 million – 40 million urban, 9 million rural - 33 pc.....
markup can also enable new tools and applications that make use of the structure.
india online 2008 understands online  indians as consumers and not just faceless net users.
now, google released some tips on building high-quality sites.
this beta offering brings the power of googlet search to users' fingertips, making information available on the move, without the need of a computer or an internet-enabled phone.
microsoft scientists said that the new search engine emporia analyses data from posts on social networking sites like twitter and.....
with google sms mobile messaging service, users can get business listings, movie showtimes and more simply by sending a text message to the shortcode 54664
with google sms mobile  messaging service, users can get business listings, movie showtimes and more  simply by sending a text message to the shortcode 54664
news » technology google, bing, yahoo launch schema.org for structured data friday, june 3, 2011, 16:33
[ist] berlin, may 30: software giant microsoft is  reportedly testing a new search engine to beat the domination of its rival,  google, in the search engine market.
read more 49 million internet users in india thursday, may 29, 2008,12:17 [ist] bangalore, may 29: india online is the annual syndicated research on internet usage in india from juxtconsult.
read  more 49 million internet users in india thursday, may 29, 2008,12:17 [ist] bangalore, may 29: india online is the annual syndicated research on  internet usage in india from juxtconsult.
gone are the days when india's beauty queen aishwarya rai or the ek do teen girl madhuri dixit ruled the roost.
its none other than singh is king girl katrina kaif.
many applications, especially search engines, can benefit greatly from direct access to this structured data," explained onschema.org.
google introduced the social search feature, which brings information from social networks, such as facebook & twitter, in oct 2009, but decided to make available only after two years of it debut.
the schema.org provides a collection of schemas, or html tags, that webmasters can use to markup their pages in ways recognized by major search providers.
it has been a year of  healthy growth in the indian online space.
the search engine giants google, yahoo and bing put aside their rivalry and joined hands to offer better search result to users.
the other big finding is that india loves booking train tickets - online.
tamil telugu thatscricket.com drivespark.com gizbot.com boldsky.com goodreturns.in
to check oneindia news on your mobile go to:
moreover, google will introduce this sharing feature in its own products like android market, blogger, youtube, product search.....
http://m.oneindia.in/news/ oneindia news movies hindi kannada malayalam
google, which introduced the +1 button in mar 2011, also allows third-party websites to integrate the +1 button to their sites.
no more fights: google loves facebook via social search thursday, may 19, 2011,17:43
this service is currently available on the airtel,.....
microsoft scientists said that the new search engine emporia analyses data from  posts on social networking sites like twitter and.....
the research offers insightful,  comprehensive and up to date understanding of net usage behavior and online  preferences of regular internet users.
- all internet users at 49 million  – 40 million urban, 9 million rural - 33 pc.....  read more connect with
microsoft's new personalised search  engine, emporia, is in prototype stage and is expected to be launched soon.
the motive behind the schema.org is to create and support a common vocabulary for structured data markup on web pages.
read more katrina kaif tops in google search thursday, december 11, 2008,15:05 [ist] bangalore, dec 11: who is no.1 now?
this beta offering brings the power of googlet  search to users' fingertips, making information available on the move, without  the need of a computer or an internet-enabled phone.
monday, may 30, 2011,14:10 [ist] berlin, may 30: software giant microsoft is reportedly testing a new search engine to beat the domination of its rival, google, in the search engine market.
read more forget google: here comes intelligent microsoft emporia!
in focus - feature - technology - health market news mutual fund stocks ipo currency follow us on oneindia »
read more user comments [ post comments ] be the first to comment on this article.
monday, may  30, 2011,14:10
this website was among the most searched for.....
google said that by adding these markup to sites, search engines can develop richer search experiences.
the research offers insightful, comprehensive and up to date understanding of net usage behavior and online preferences of regular internet users.
- aakash tablets galore for ap students - google firm; says cannot censor web - rim's co-ceo quits; heins to be new ceo - zuckerberg joins protests against sopa - yahoo co-founder jerry yang quits - google to predict flu outbreak!
[ist] california, may 19: the technology giant google has started to roll out the social search feature on its search engine globally.
[5goog] from their mobile phones.
"many sites are generated from structured data, which is often stored in databases.
[ist] california, may 7: when the search engine giant google rolled out its 'panda update,' a new algorithm to filter out shallow-quality content websites from coming atop better-quality sites, in feb 2011, some of the websites cried out for the huge depletion in search traffic.
it has been a year of healthy growth in the indian online space.
search engine giant google, says katrina is the most searched in google not only in india, but in neighbouring pakistan also.
[ist] a a a california, jun 3: the ultimate winner is the user!
amit singhal, google"s head of search, published a post in google webmaster central blog describing the ways to make the websites friendly with panda algorithm change.
search engines including bing, google and yahoo rely on this markup to improve the display of search results, making it easier for people to find the right web pages.
india online 2008 understands online indians as consumers and not just faceless net users.
read more connect with follow @oneindia technology news â news archives - mails to be routed through ind servers?
india's #1 language portal mail login gallery - home - india - states - money - international - business - sports -
read more google sms for mobile users in india tuesday, october 9, 2007,17:10 [ist] bangalore, oct 9: google announced today the launch of google sms for mobile users in india.
moreover,  google will introduce this sharing feature in its own products like android  market, blogger, youtube, product search.....  read more forget google: here comes intelligent microsoft emporia!
- facebook can fire mark zuckerberg !
topics: search engine, google, yahoo other articles published on june 3, 2011 tweet google +1 button: just click & share thursday, june 2,  2011,13:54
oneindia news newsletter its free!
] oneindia login email enter oneindia email id. password enter valid password.
the  intelligence to provide search results based on individual needs makes  microsoft emporia different from other browsers available in the market.
- yahoo gets new ceo - scott thompson - mashable rigged its social media awards?