the easiest way to get listed is by submitting your site directly by  going here: http://www.google.com/addurl/. google doesn’t necessarily add  every site, so be sure you have good content and have optimized your pages.
it was revamped  and quickly became one of the major search engines - making it a must do in  getting your site listed in the search engines.
algorithm’s are kept secret, and are changed periodically.
backlink quality is rated as well as quantity.
backlink  quality is rated as well as quantity.
and using the search box find sites  that are similar to yours and note the category listing.
for page rank your content should include keywords as described above, but it shouldalso be well written and informative to keep visitors coming back and to compel others to link to your site.
next, get your free google webmaster account at http://www.google.com/webmasters/start/. log into your new account, add your site url and submit your sitemap.
indexing is done by human volunteers
getting listed in yahoo when your site is ready go to yahoo!
the third way to get noticed by google is by listing your site in the open directory at www.dmoz.org.
of all the search engines and directories, yahoo!
to  create your sitemap go to http://www.xml-sitemaps.com/, follow the four steps  there and then save the file to your pc.
in fact, being listed in the directory isn’t even a guarantee of affecting your position in yahoo’s search results.
a listing here will get you listed directly  into google, but getting in is difficult.
i promise to use it only to send you  ebook crossroads insider.
ezine articles is considered an authority site by google and is crawled several times a day.
to assist in your chances of being indexed be sure to submit a sitemap.
in other words, not just any backlink  will do.
3.add your sitemap by going to http://www.bing.com/toolbox/webmasters and  clicking on the "sign in to use webmaster tools" box.
a listing here will get you listed directly into google, but getting in is difficult.
the belief is that if you obtain a lot of backlinks your site must be of importance.
all of the top ranked sites (money making) are optimized to get the best ranking possible.
generally speaking, the main components targeted in algorithms are keyword  relevancy, page title, content, number and quality of backlinks (links pointing  back to your site): keyword relevancy: is one of the main components in algorithms.
one of the most effective ways to get free, targeted traffic to your website is by being listed in the major search engines.
the big 3 out of all the search engines and directories on the internet the majority  of traffic comes from the big 3 - google, yahoo and bing.
the major search engines - getting listed  in google, yahoo, and bing search engines search engine optimization website promotion website content  web tools website design getting listed in the search engines one of the most effective ways to get free, targeted traffic to your  website is by being listed in the major search engines.
there is a belief that having a directory listing will boost your rank in google and other engines but there is no proof of this.
another consideration is the number of keywords in a page or keyword density.
unless your site garners a good page rank, your traffic may remain minimal.
backlinks: the search engines rate backlinks highly.
formula changes usually indicate a shift of emphasis  from one part to another.
there is a belief  that having a directory listing will boost your rank in google and other  engines but there is no proof of this.
search engine resources build a website the search engines love free white hat seo report turn visitors into returning customers home privacy policy terms disclaimer compensation  contact copyright © 2001-2012 dimar corp, all rights reserved shouldn’t you be the next amazon kindle best selling author?
generally speaking, the main components targeted in algorithms are keyword relevancy, page title, content, number and quality of backlinks (links pointing back to your site): keyword relevancy: is one of the main components in algorithms.
generates the most hits, so it’s definitely worth the effort.
you can also list your site in the yahoo!
the easiest way to get listed is by submitting your site directly by going here: http://www.google.com/addurl/. google doesn’t necessarily add every site, so be sure you have good content and have optimized your pages.
the third way to get noticed by google is by listing your site in the  open directory at www.dmoz.org.
here are the steps to take to  submit your site: 1.check to make sure your site has not been indexed by going to  http://www.bing.com and placing a search for your site.
if your site has been  indexed already, skip to step 3.
content: i know you’ve heard the phrase, "content is  king" - and it still is.
oh, you’ll hear from different sources and even from some gurus that  seo (search engine optimization) isn’t necessary or is a waste of time.
in other words, using the  word "golf" (a popular keyword) as a keyword in a page discussing how  to fix a water pipe will not give you a good ranking.
formula changes usually indicate a shift of emphasis from one part to another.
let’s take a look at how page rank is determined so you can be prepared... each of the major search engines uses its own unique "algorithm" or formula to determine page ranking.
many of the others actually get their ratings from these three, so once you’ve got listings in these engines you will automatically be listed in many of the others as well.
click on "submit a site to bing" and put your site url in the box indicated.
getting listed in bing bing is microsoft’s new search engine (formerly msn).
in fact, being listed in the directory  isn’t even a guarantee of affecting your position in yahoo’s search  results.
an excellent way to do this is by writing and submitting an article in an  article directory like ezinearticles.com.
the belief is  that if you obtain a lot of backlinks your site must be of importance.
then go to  http://siteexplorer.search.yahoo.com/submit/ and submit your site in the same  category.
next, get your free google webmaster account at  http://www.google.com/webmasters/start/. log into your new account, add your  site url and submit your sitemap.
being listed doesn’t necessarily mean that you’re going to get traffic.
to create your sitemap go to http://www.xml-sitemaps.com/, follow the four steps there and then save the file to your pc.
a general rule of thumb is 2-3% of the page  content.
this is the relationship of a keyword to the page topic.
for page rank your content should include  keywords as described above, but it shouldalso be well written and informative  to keep visitors coming back and to compel others to link to your site.
you need a link from an  established site witha high page rank.
another consideration is the number of keywords in a page or keyword  density.
for a commercial site, the cost is $299 a year.
many of the others  actually get their ratings from these three, so once you’ve got listings  in these engines you will automatically be listed in many of the others as well.
out of all the search engines and directories on the internet the majority of traffic comes from the big 3 - google, yahoo and bing.
2.add your site by going to http://www.bing.com/webmaster/submitsitepage.aspx.
then go to http://siteexplorer.search.yahoo.com/submit/ and submit your site in the same category.
if your site has been indexed already, skip to step 3.
all of the top ranked sites (money making) are  optimized to get the best ranking possible.
an excellent way to do this is by writing and submitting an article in an article directory like ezinearticles.com.
not only that, but articles submitted here are syndicated, and that means more inbound links to you - and the more in-bound links the better chance of google indexing your site and giving your site a good page rank.
2.add your site by going to  http://www.bing.com/webmaster/submitsitepage.aspx.
in case any of you are wondering why yahoo is listed here when it is  actually a directory, here is my reasoning: although technically yahoo is not  listed as a search engine it is still one of the big 3 major players in website  traffic - which makes it appropriate to be included it in this article about  getting your site listed in the top spots on the internet traffic highway.
if your site hasn’t been listed in about 6 weeks, resubmit.
bing is microsoft’s new search engine (formerly msn).
indexing is done by human volunteers and it can sometimes take up to a year to get indexed.
before listing your site, take the time to optimize it for page ranking.
algorithm’s are kept secret, and  are changed periodically.
here you can  also validate your robots.txt, research keywords and identify crawl issues.
in other words, using the word "golf" (a popular keyword) as a keyword in a page discussing how to fix a water pipe will not give you a good ranking.
in other words, not just any backlink will do.
this  is the relationship of a keyword to the page topic.
it was revamped and quickly became one of the major search engines - making it a must do in getting your site listed in the search engines.
now that you know what needs to be done before listing your site, let’s move on and learn how to get your site listed with the major search engines...
don't worry -- your e-mail  address is totally secure.
you need a link from an established site witha high page rank.
a general rule of thumb is 2-3% of the page content.
of all the search engines  and directories, yahoo! generates the most hits, so it’s definitely worth  the effort.
se’s are looking for links from other sites of importance and  quality.
se’s are looking for links from other sites of importance and quality.
when your site is ready go to yahoo!
now that you know what needs to be done before listing your site,  let’s move on and learn how to get your site listed with the major search  engines...
getting listed in google 1.
another way to get a google listing is by getting an in-bound link from another site - and not just any site will do.
too few is considered irrelevant and too many may be deemed as keyword  stuffing and is frowned upon.
fill in all of the fields completely and accurately.
another way to get a google listing is by getting an in-bound link from  another site - and not just any site will do.
too few is considered irrelevant and too many may be deemed as keyword stuffing and is frowned upon.
if  necessary, keep resubmitting until it’s listed.
in case any of you are wondering why yahoo is listed here when it is actually a directory, here is my reasoning: although technically yahoo is not listed as a search engine it is still one of the big 3 major players in website traffic - which makes it appropriate to be included it in this article about getting your site listed in the top spots on the internet traffic highway.
and using the search box find sites that are similar to yours and note the category listing.
3.add your sitemap by going to http://www.bing.com/toolbox/webmasters and clicking on the "sign in to use webmaster tools" box.
here you can also validate your robots.txt, research keywords and identify crawl issues.
unless your site garners a good page rank, your traffic may remain  minimal.
it’s entirely up to you to decide if it’s worth being listed.
ezine articles is considered an  authority site by google and is crawled several times a day.
if your page is 350 words you should include 7-10 keywords.
click here to find out how... directory
content: i know you’ve heard the phrase, "content is king" - and it still is.
if necessary, keep resubmitting until it’s listed.
oh, you’ll hear from different sources and even from some gurus that seo (search engine optimization) isn’t necessary or is a waste of time.
now upload to the root directory of  your fileserver.
click on "submit a site  to bing" and put your site url in the box indicated.
how search engines determine page rank each of the major search engines uses its own unique "algorithm"  or formula to determine page ranking.
title: the title of your page should describe your page content and  contain your main keyword for the search engines and should be compelling  enough to get visitors to click.
let’s take a look at how page rank is determined so you can be prepared...
and it can sometimes take up to a year to get indexed.
being listed doesn’t necessarily mean that you’re going to get  traffic.
title: the title of your page should describe your page content and contain your main keyword for the search engines and should be compelling enough to get visitors to click.
not only that, but  articles submitted here are syndicated, and that means more inbound links to  you - and the more in-bound links the better chance of google indexing your  site and giving your site a good page rank.
now upload to the root directory of your fileserver.
here are the steps to take to submit your site: 1.check to make sure your site has not been indexed by going to http://www.bing.com and placing a search for your site.