having two good search engines to choose from makes searching that  much better for everyone.
google gave me 7 stores and 3 charitable organizations (one of which was a  store as well).
google has a lot more diversity.
the content provided in  this article is not warranted or guaranteed by developer shed, inc.
there were 3 music resource sites (but no  magazines), one downloading program, one cd store, one radio station (yahoo  radio), one music directory, and the 10th result was an audio player program  site.
google had some lower quality sites, but the information was just as good even though they did seem less professional.
so even though i didn't necessarily want the latest news about what a charity did regarding mosquito nets, i think getting the same site twice from yahoo (not to mention the search result page) is the bigger
information about music from different sources such as magazine, tv and other music news sites are found 6 times in the top 10 results.
attention: how to submit your s... find more search  engine tricks articles © 2003-2012 by developer shed.
it also makes marketing better.
google also had 2 sites in its top ten that were of no value whatsoever; mp3.com which just has one page stating that they no longer offer the services that they used to (with links to their parent company), and music.com, which is nothing more than an email gathering site for a newsletter (not a single link on the entire page).
which search engine is better?
what i got was a lot of "how to find a doctor" sites, with a lot of good information.
more search engine tricks articles more by developer shed
the 10th result was an audio player program site.
they  seem just as good, if not better, than google's.
it also offered downloading and file sharing programs 3 times.
in comparing these engines, it seems to me that yahoo's results are from a brand new engine.
the content  provided is intended for entertainment and/or educational purposes in order to  introduce to the reader key ideas, concepts, and/or product reviews.
yet another round goes to yahoo.
what is the new yahoo?
so rejoice, and enjoy a more dynamic world of online searching!
the other results were a search result page (not a good result) and an inner page from a previous result (also not a good result).
in less than twenty-four hours, google went from about 79% of the market  share to about 51%, almost overnight.
now there will be more stability; if  you drop in google today, your hits from yahoo will remain consistent.
maybe they took parts and ideas from all the search engines they bought - maybe they even took the best parts - , but whatever they did, the result is something completely new.
the only differences were sites by actual realtors and sites that were simply property listings.
this one goes to google.
this is a problem that killed altavista in the late 90's.
this is a problem that killed  altavista in the late 90's.
ds cluster  11 - follow oursitemap [-x-]  x.net case tools to speed up your  development.
mosquito nets it seems to me that someone searching for "mosquito nets" wants either a) to buy them, or b) to learn about them, so i was expecting to find either stores or information about mosquito nets.
google gave me 4 good informational sites, 2 good "find a doctor" sites, one recent article about liposuction for people in the industry, one site with very poor information one written by a single doctor and one site that was nothing more than a directory.
the only way this could have been worse is if yahoo's results sucked, and they don't.
shawn campbell is the co-founder and chief search engine optimizer at red carpet web promotion, inc .
both types of results are useful, with google having  an edge in realtors.
can you make with adsense?
it also makes traffic to your site steadier.
google had some lower quality sites, but the information  was just as good even though they did seem less professional.
now that's big  news.
the only way  this could have been worse is if yahoo's results sucked, and they don't.
google also had 2 sites in its top ten that were of no value whatsoever;  mp3.com which just has one page stating that they no longer offer the services  that they used to (with links to their parent company), and music.com, which is  nothing more than an email gathering site for a newsletter (not a single link  on the entire page).
information about music from  different sources such as magazine, tv and other music news sites are found 6  times in the top 10 results.
google gave me 4 good informational sites, 2 good "find a doctor"  sites, one recent article about liposuction for people in the industry, one  site with very poor information one written by a single doctor and one site  that was nothing more than a directory.
search engine navigator: yahoo's back!
mosquito nets it seems to me that someone searching for "mosquito nets" wants  either a) to buy them, or b) to learn about them, so i was expecting to find  either stores or information about mosquito nets.
so google has 5 spam sites, and yahoo has 3 and a half.
the other results were a search result page (not a good  result) and an inner page from a previous result (also not a good result).
the other search engines all hold less than 4% of the market share (except for msn which uses yahoo's inktomi), so i won't be considering them.
many people are saying that the results come from a new inktomi because the results are similar; but the results are also similar to all the other search engines out there.
google's diversity is a big bonus, but the 2 spam/junk/useless sites really hurt it.
they seem just as good, if not better, than google's.
advertisementadvertisement search engine navigator: yahoo's back!
the other links are all affiliate spam with no content whatsoever (just links to stores), with the exception of one of yahoo's links, which has some biographical content about artists.
i was all set to write an article predicting the future of search engines,  when yahoo dropped google and replaced it with its own engine.
google wins  this round.
the only differences were sites by actual realtors and sites that were  simply property listings.
it also makes  marketing better.
we are not liable for any negative  consequences that may result from implementing any information covered in our  articles or tutorials.
i will be comparing google and yahoo for the terms "music", "art prints and posters", "bahamas real estate", "mosquito nets", and "liposuction".
here is what i found in the  top 10 results for each keyphrase: music yahoo offers a lot of music resource sites.
many people are saying that the  results come from a new inktomi because the results are similar; but the  results are also similar to all the other search engines out there.
for this keyphrase, i found results between google and yahoo to be quite  similar.
here is what i found in the top 10 results for each keyphrase: music yahoo offers a lot of music resource sites.
in  comparing these engines, it seems to me that yahoo's results are from a brand  new engine.
so even though i didn't necessarily want the latest news about what a  charity did regarding mosquito nets, i think getting the same site twice from  yahoo (not to mention the search result page) is the bigger
art prints and posters yahoo offers 6 stores, while google offers 5.
overall, it looks like yahoo needs to fix its doubling of sites and google needs to clean out some spam (poor sites).
yahoo showed me 6 stores and 2 informational pages.
yahoo showed me 6 stores and  2 informational pages.
overall, it looks like yahoo needs to fix  its doubling of sites and google needs to clean out some spam (poor sites).
it also offered downloading and file sharing  programs 3 times.
on the other  hand, yahoo did have one site that was nothing more than a links page from  another realtor's site.
bahamas real estate
and what a welcome relief it is too!
other than the 3 doubled sites, the results included 4 informational sites, 2 sites for finding doctors and one poorly written article about the history of liposuction.
google gets this round as well.
it also makes getting listings better.
being #1 in google was great, but when you had the misfortune of dropping even  a couple of positions you really felt it.
and the winner is... you!
on the other hand, yahoo did have one site that was nothing more than a links page from another realtor's site.
having two good search engines to choose from makes searching that much better for everyone.
for this keyphrase, i found results between google and yahoo to be quite similar.
there were 3 music resource sites (but no magazines), one downloading program, one cd store, one radio station (yahoo radio), one music directory, and the 10th result was an audio player program site.
liposuction i expected to find information about liposuction, liposuction organizations and either doctors or centers where you can have liposuction done.
both types of results are useful, with google having an edge in realtors.
what i got  was a lot of "how to find a doctor" sites, with a lot of good  information.
shawn campbell is the co-founder and chief search engine optimizer at red  carpet web promotion, inc .
more search engine tricks articles more by developer shed - check your code for seo  issues - to be an seo, start with what you know - don`t worry about bad  inbound links - guard your google places listing - overlooked seo tricks - a simple long tail keyword strategy - writing for the long tail -  choosing and using keywords - seven more seo myths that can hurt your sit... - google tips and tricks - will google social search affect your  traffi... - how much money
free trial & contest entry w/ activation.
shawn campbell what is the new yahoo?
google gave me 7 stores and 3 charitable organizations (one of which was a store as well).
maybe they took parts and ideas from all the search engines they  bought - maybe they even took the best parts - , but whatever they did, the  result is something completely new.
as such it  is incumbent upon the reader to employ real-world tactics for security and  implementation of best practices.
the other search  engines all hold less than 4% of the market share (except for msn which uses  yahoo's inktomi), so i won't be considering them.
yahoo results included 3 sites doubled.
hopefully they will have it fixed soon.
- submitting urls  to search engines - want to optimize?
simplify for search engines - get  google`s
the other 2 charitable organizations were a news article  outlining what they had done regarding mosquito nets and information about  mosquito nets.
i will be comparing google and yahoo for the terms "music",  "art prints and posters", "bahamas real estate",  "mosquito nets", and "liposuction".
if this is a hardware review, it is not recommended to  open and/or modify your hardware.
other than  the 3 doubled sites, the results included 4 informational sites, 2 sites for  finding doctors and one poorly written article about the history of liposuction.
last year, yahoo bought the altavista, fast, and inktomi search engines.
the new yahoo results are none of these.
liposuction i expected to find information about liposuction, liposuction organizations  and either doctors or centers where you can have liposuction done.
the other 2 charitable organizations were a news article outlining what they had done regarding mosquito nets and information about mosquito nets.
google wins this round.
google's diversity is a big bonus, but the 2 spam/junk/useless sites really  hurt it.
the other links are all  affiliate spam with no content whatsoever (just links to stores), with the  exception of one of yahoo's links, which has some biographical content about  artists.