questions | for discussion and reading comprehension: what problems does the article mention that children run into when they  use search engines?
everything about the great american pastime has been sold out...
if not, what’s the next step to take to get this question answered?
i have conversations all day, every day, which are all enjoyable.
if so, what? related | tell students that they are going to read a new york times article,“helping children find what they need on the internet,” that describes how search engine developers are drawing on young people’s search frustrations to improve their products: when considering children, search engines had long focused on filtering out explicit material from results.
alternatively or additionally, students develop ideas for the search engines of the future, likeways to use and find images, audio and video, rank results and so on, and “pitch” their ideas to classmates acting as search engine developers.
search engines are typically developed to be easy for everyone to use.
as much as possible, the tips and guidance in the guide should be illustrated with the students’ stories and examples.
april 27 what do democrats and republicans agree on, and disagree on, when it comes to student loans?
to end this activity, ask: what did you notice about the search to find the  answer to this question?
which results did you click on?
you can use them from home, too!
if so, what? related | tell students that they are going to read a new  york times article,“helping children find what they need on the  internet,” that describes how search engine developers are drawing on  young people’s search frustrations to improve their products: when considering children, search engines had long focused on filtering out  explicit material from results.
but advocates for children and researchers say  that more can be done technologically to make it easier for young people to  retrieve information.
then ask: how often do you use search engines?
if time permits, play around by using different key words and clicking on different results, to see how the search for the answer to the question changes.
— brandon k “ my favorite memory of crafting something is when i remade the game candy land and called it camby land.
then ask: how  often do you use search engines?
but now, because increasing numbers of children are using search as a starting point for homework, exploration or entertainment, more engineers are looking to children for guidance on how to improve their tools.
if students are using the internet to complete their homework, are schools requiring students to expose themselves to corporate advertisements in order to succeed academically?
how many steps did it take?
after several students have shared, ask for a show of hands of students who have experienced frustration using an internet search engine.
have them try to find this information and keep working until they can answer the question.
google, for example, uses the arial typeface because it considers it more legible than other typefaces.
we start talking about all sorts of things, from her high-school years to car insurance for teenagers.
we'd love to hear what you think!
as a boy, i remember watching baseball games on sunday afternoon in front of the tv with my dad.
before when tv was staring out i could see there not being any diversity at all due to segregation and racism.
the big bang theory also has a very diverse cast.
inside the cardboard flap on one pack, i saw some writing (in pencil), and since the pencils were made in vietnam, i checked out a few of the words using an on-line translation tool.
i invite my co-workers to take one for their pocket.
what are the most common problems you face when searching?
yes, it sounds weird, but the most recent meaningful conversation with someone was with my substitute teacher, first class of the day, this morning.”
but i hope i captured the essence of what the writer had to say.
i also have friends from other parts of the state and it is convenient to keep in touch using the computer or phones.
do you search the internet  more for personal reasons and entertainment, or more for school?
what key words did you type into the search engine?
anyone can change the information on wikipedia’s website so therefore it is not a reliable source.
then tell them that they will use their notes to create a page for a class guide, in booklet orwiki form, on how to use internet search engines effectively for research, to be made available to the school community to help other students.
read the article with your class, using the questions below.
google has always been my favorite search engine when looking up information on essays, homework, etc.
many databases contrain scholarly material that’s current, reliable, and written by experts in a field.
did the answer appear?
for earth day and every day: ways to teach and learn about the environment.
why not talk about the deep web instead of telling them to “use the library.”?
for example, my favorite show, bones had a very diverse cast.
in this lesson,  students conduct web searches on open-ended questions, and draw on their  experiences to develop guides to searching effectively and finding reliable  information online.
ask: what information do you need to be able to answer the question?
i would much rather learn a lesson from them, then learn from a person i have no connection to.”—
understands the relationships among science, technology, society and the individual.
questions | for discussion and reading comprehension: activity | before class, ask teachers of several different subjects for questions that they have asked or will ask students to research on the internet.
for more information, please see ourcomments faq.
it was actually really fun to talk about random stuff that relates to life.
why did you choose these  words?
did this exercise give help you understand something  new about internet searching?
as someone who is interested in the universal forces that keep the universe in the relatively stable condition it is right now, it would be marvelous if the world renowned tyson spoke at my school. ”
tell students that their booklet/wiki entries should or might include the following, among other types of guidance and insight: in addition to the handbook or wiki, you might also have students make their own videos, à la thegoogle ad “parisian love,” chronicling their search.
why did you choose these words?
in this lesson, students conduct web searches on open-ended questions, and draw on their experiences to develop guides to searching effectively and finding reliable information online.
do you believe  that improving your internet searching skills will benefit you academically?
join the conversation by commenting on any post.
it was the first class of the day and we had a substitute teacher...
overview | do internet search engines point us to the information that we need or confuse us with irrelevant or questionable information?
if time permits, play around by using different key  words and clicking on different results, to see how the search for the answer  to the question changes.
many encyclopedias are available in digitial format, so you can search them like wikipedia, except they are reliable and written by experts.
i see it as a show with compelling and complex characters.
how does the article  characterize these two types of searching?
but my brother did and he made a poem.
alisa (is the best) april 27 students can tell us what they're reading and why in the times each week from june 15 to aug. 17, and we'll choose our favorites to feature.
a great way to include nonfiction on a summer reading list!
but really that goes for any site.
what are the  most common problems you face when searching?
why not tell them why full text searches have such a low accuracy?
ideas  might include the name of the vice president, the date of his birthday, and a  copy of next year’s calendar.
going further | students read the new york times magazine article“the google alphabet,” by virginia heffernan, who writes the column“the medium,” and keep a tally of the number of advertisements and commercial sites that they see while doing schoolwork on the internet for one or two days.
not "oh, hes asian" or "this is a show that only casts girls."”— tristan m “ i didnt know about the poem in the pocket day.
search engines, metasearch engines and subject directories:
but advocates for children and researchers say that more can be done technologically to make it easier for young people to retrieve information.
does anybody still think wikipedia is vulnerable to random mischief?— bob calder i’ve been looking at this issue for four years, and have come to several conclusions.
i can not have a face- to- face conversation with my grandparents who are over 300 miles away.
— nick d “ i gave up on baseball when the ws was cancelled in 1994.
now, there is a lot of tv shows with a diverse of races on the show.
february 22, 2010, 3:52 pm just google it?
so how can you develop better internet searching skills?
the first is that teaching kids how to search effectively is a multi-year process that few will master before graduation, because wisdom and experience are essential qualities of an effective internet researcher, the second is that, while effective searching must be taught early, often, and consistently through the school years, it is time-consuming and exhausting for students to do it right
gathers and uses information for research purposes.
(alternatively, give students a multistep question that relates to your subject matter.
have them try to find this information and  keep working until they can answer the question.
do you have any search strategies?
do you think any of the improvements  mentioned in the article are particularly promising?
it’s not that hard to do.
by sarah kavanagh  and holly epstein ojalvo kevin van aelst go to related medium column »
what suggestions have been offered for how search engines can improve  their product to lessen children’s problems searching?
what advice would you give to internet search engine developers for how  they should improve their product?
(you may want to add a competitive component to this activity, rewarding the student who finds out the right answer the fastest.)
give students the following search assignment, from the new york times  article“helping children find what they need on the internet”:  “which day [will] the vice president’s birthday fall on the next  year?”
i've done this for 3 years now and people really like it.
usually when i do research for any type of assignment, i search at multiple websites.
it was about school and how he hates school.
how can internet users improve their searches to find reliable  information?
uses reading skills and strategies to understand and interpret a variety of informational texts.
developing internet search skills
do you search the internet more for personal reasons and entertainment, or more for school?
materials | computers with internet access warm-up | invite students to share anecdotes about times  when they used an internet search engine to look for information and found  something they were not expecting, or when they could not find what they were  looking for.
after several students have shared, ask for a show of hands of students who  have experienced frustration using an internet search engine.
i'm done with baseball for ever.”— jamman “ i honestly think that tv has gotten more diverse as time goes on.
then hold a class discussion on advertising and commercial interests on the internet.
and lastly, the only effective way for kids to use search engines consistently is via a custom search engine that only searches a limited pool of curated sites, such as sweetsearch or kidsclick .—
which ones do you use most?
these are the conversations that would be classified as more than "great".
ideas might include the name of the vice president, the date of his birthday, and a copy of next year’s calendar.
are you sure the sources are reliable and that the answers are correct?
let them know that these are starting points, and that they may use additional resources.
for many assignments, kids should be given a list of 5-10 “approved” sites that they can search with the sites’ internal search; this helps students learn to appreciate, and spot, good online content.
what is at stake, they say, are the means to succeed in a  new digital age.
when i write formal essays for classes, teachers always say that we may not use wikipedia as a source.
but now, because increasing numbers of children  are using search as a starting point for homework, exploration or  entertainment, more engineers are looking to children for guidance on how to  improve their tools.
how can internet users improve their searches to find reliable information?
i can hardly ever talk with them, and revel in the ability to stay in touch.”
do you consider yourself a skilled searcher?
“ i think that my amazing teachers have stories and experiences even more interesting then any celebrity or leader.
are you sure the sources  are reliable and that the answers are correct?
have you tried using images or videos to search?
if i find something that doesn’t necessarily match i try looking for a book with that same information.
do you search using keywords or questions?
if not, what’s the next step  to take to get this question answered?
we invite students 13 and older to comment on issues in the news.
tell students to type this question into google, bing or any other favorite search engine, and have them share the top results in real time.
standards | from mcrel, for grades 6-12: technology 2.
celebrate the bard's birthday this week with our resources on five often-taught plays.
there are many other ways of testing a student of their abilities, like oral exams or having them deduce a solution using reasoning, which very clearly demonstrate a student's learning.
tell students to type this question into  google, bing or any other favorite search engine, and have them share the top  results in real time.
see all in technology »
materials | computers with internet access warm-up | invite students to share anecdotes about times when they used an internet search engine to look for information and found something they were not expecting, or when they could not find what they were looking for.
what are some ways to perform effective searches?
my personal pocket poem is "forgetfulness" by billy collins.”— jgoldberg “ emily dickinson: 'i started early, took my dog,' ”— victoria “ the most wonderful combination of sounds and images i've read, i think: "ars poetica" by archibald macleish ”— scott a “ it is very ironic how we are responding to an article about communication via technology. ”—
when one or more students have found the answer, have one student take the  class through the steps he or she took to find the answer; if possible, do this  on a screen so that everyone can watch.
when one or more students have found the answer, have one student take the class through the steps he or she took to find the answer; if possible, do this on a screen so that everyone can watch.
“ surprisingly enough, my most recent meaningful conversation was about 4 hours ago, and you're never going to believe who it was with.
psychologists internationally have studied the effects of test anxiety, and its effects on test results, and it is seen through social experiments that the mental and emotional bind standardized testing puts a student in, has a direct negative impact on their results.”— marcel r “ it would probably have to be astrophysicist neil degrasse tyson.
the east wind/ shows these magic leaves/ to a full courtyard/ nine thoughts, only leaves/ sleep the sleep that bring dreams/ open/ and feel sad for him”— miss kim “ i seleceted many poems, printed them out, folded them up, and put them in a bowl on my desk.
give students the following search assignment, from the new york times article“helping children find what they need on the internet”: “which day [will] the vice president’s birthday fall on the next year?”
do you believe that improving your internet searching skills will benefit you academically?
it said "waking up in the morning waiting for the bus, makes me angry so bad
how would you  verify the information?
mark moran your name required your e-mail required, will not be published your comment comments are moderated and generally will be posted if they are on-topic and not abusive.
demonstrates competence in the general skills and strategies of the writing process.
knows the characteristics and uses of computer software programs.
the learning network provides teaching and learning materials and ideas based onnew york times content.
how would you verify the information?
why? related resources
ask a librarian to help you select the correct databases.
i just wanna cuss!"”— alexis “ here is an implausible but true story.
but just how reliable is the internet.
(you may want to add a  competitive component to this activity, rewarding the student who finds out the  right answer the fastest.)
i only know one line by heart.
what is at stake, they say, are the means to succeed in a new digital age.
alternatively, collect from students their own research questions – for another class or for a personal project, likei-search.
it’s surely no the quickest way, but it’s the most accurate.— tina visit your pulblic library’s web site to access databases.
i find that most of them can be described as "great" ...
again, many of these resources are available online, anytime.
all this research and writing will prepare you for college and professional wrtiting.
now, obviously, they have deadened the ball again.
and for fun, students might try to come up with “googlewhacks.”
i was opening several packs of fancy pencils to give to my students as prizes.
after the game, they always interviewed the player of the game.
go  to related article » technology teaching ideas based on new york times content.
i can however, call them and have fantastic conversations every week.
teachers can use or adapt our lessons across subject areas and levels.
now, that tradition is pretty much shot since half the players are spanish speaking.
he was my favorite player.”
the diversity doesn't really catch my attention.
i'm sure that it isn’t a perfect translation
google, for example, uses the arial typeface because it considers it more  legible than other typefaces.
do you consider yourself a  skilled searcher?
april 27 fill in the blanks in the first several paragraphs of the well blog post, "should your dog be watching tv?" april 27 (58) what are your favorite shows, and do they feature nonwhite actors?
why not give students a task that is insoluble using keywords and ask them to reflect on it?
for example, a geography teacher might ask “how many  miles away is shanghai?”)
choosing effective search words: evaluating source reliability: when pairs have completed their research, bring the class together and invite pairs to share their stories.
i grew up believing that baseball was something more important than other sports, and that year, i learned i was wrong.
lesson plans across the curriculum based on times content.
see all lesson plans » overview | do internet search engines point us to the  information that we need or confuse us with irrelevant or questionable  information?
just about anyone can create a website with false information on it.
kendra “ the author never explains exactly what a great conversation acutally is.
be sure that the questions are sufficiently open-ended so that they cannot be answered definitively with a quick, simple search – they might contain an element of opinion or interpretation, rather than just be a matter of simple fact.
to end this activity, ask: what did you notice about the search to find the answer to this question?
since then, to get fans back into the seats, they juiced up the ball and let a bunch of steroid abusing freaks shatter all the long-held records for homeruns.
does it matter to you? april 27 can you use context clues to choose the word pair that best completes the sentence?
get a library card all this use and evaluation of scholarly materials will help you write stronger essays in high school.
— matt i lkl “ for poem in your pocket day, carry wb yeats' 'when you are old and grey' around on your smartphone in the form of this film celebrating the power of poetry, from sydney: #pocketpoem http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qydeeqovqjy”— dan “ through personal experience, i for one believe that standardized testing is not an effective way to measure knowledge...
i called it camby land because i was a denver nugget fan and at the time marcus camby played for them.
how does the article  characterize this type of searching?
teaching ideas based on new york times content.
did this exercise give help you understand something new about internet searching?
put the class into pairs, and provide each pair with the following multipart task: provide pairs with the following resources to research their assigned topics.
for example, a geography teacher might ask “how many miles away is shanghai?”)
(alternatively, give students a multistep question that relates to  your subject matter.
why did you choose those sources over the others on the page?
along the way, ask probing questions.
students can respond to ouropinion questions, take our news quizzes, learn the word of the day, try our test yourself questions, complete a fill-in or read our poetry pairings.
all the best, pj rauber, librarian tyr this for online critical evalutation skills: http://www.teachercertification.org/teach/evaluation-techniques-of-internet-resources.php— nicole
here is my translation of this modern day “message in a bottle”.
why did you choose those sources over  the others on the page?
i found this poem today.
do any ethical questions arise around the prevalence of corporate advertising in web searching for academic purposes?
uses various information sources, including those of a technical nature, to accomplish specific tasks.