in other words, search behavior is a very strong contributing factor to the phrases that google suggests, and there is very little that can be done to influence google’s suggestions directly.
we think it’s  better to approach seo holistically, with a many-faceted approach that includes  solid on-site optimization, content and link building, tightly focused  targeting, and compelling conversion paths.
(as an aside, google says it filters out certain words that it interprets as “pornography, violence and hate speech.”)
the  user chooses a particular query by clicking the search button, pressing enter  or selecting one of the predicted queries.
you may also see an apparent reduction in click-through rate to your site.
bing’s organic search results are now  powering yahoo!’s results.
(as  an aside, google says it filters out certain words that it interprets as  “pornography, violence and hate speech.”)
enjoy the  new normal – it will undoubtably change again, and soon!
continue typing “wa,” and  the top result will change to walmart before you hit the search button.
we think it’s better to approach seo holistically, with a many-faceted approach that includes solid on-site optimization, content and link building, tightly focused targeting, and compelling conversion paths.
from google support: when someone searches using google instant, ad impressions are counted in these situations: *the user begins to type a query on google and clicks anywhere on the page (a search result, an ad, a spell correction, a related search).
over the last few weeks, bing’s merger with yahoo! has progressed into  the much-anticipated next step:
google is  now delivering results that change as you type.
organic search results.
we consult on seo and social media for  major brands, one-person shops, and everything in between.
what this means to you: stay the course of holistic seo, but get  verified in webmaster tools both google and bing evaluate similar  factors when determining organic search results.
the user stops typing, and the results are displayed for a minimum of 3 seconds.
llc all rights reserved wordpress admin
you may also see an apparent reduction in  click-through rate to your site.
what this means to you: keep an eye on google suggest google  suggest, (google’s auto-complete feature that provides suggestions as you  type in the search box), is becoming more important as a driver of search  queries.
make sure to review google’s suggestions as part of  your keyword research activities.
as one example, you may be ranking well for the singular variation of  a keyword, but google may feature the plural version in the suggest box, which  could draw searchers away from typing your preferred keyword variation.
for example, type in  “w” to see weather results.
for example, text optimization, quality inbound links, and crawler-friendliness are valued by both search engines.
google is now delivering results that change as you type.
order the third edition: >
google suggest tends to be driven by a combination of keyword popularity  and newsworthiness.
bing is now estimated to have approximately 30% of the organic search market share.
contact about home > ask the experts blog >
google implements instant search see it in action while searching google, or readgoogle’s official explanation.
this will give you  insights into bing’s interpretation of your site, and can alert you to  problems that might affect your site’s indexing in bing.
we consult on seo and social media for major brands, one-person shops, and everything in between.
google implements instant search see it in action  while searching google, or readgoogle’s official explanation.
for example, text  optimization, quality inbound links, and crawler-friendliness are valued by  both search engines.
what this means to you: keep an eye on google suggest google suggest, (google’s auto-complete feature that provides suggestions as you type in the search box), is becoming more important as a driver of search queries.
bing takes over yahoo!’s
you may begin to notice additional ad impressions for shorter-head keywords  than you have received historically.
gravity search marketing expert seo consulting & seo training home > ask the experts blog >
uncategorized > new developments in search: bing takes over yahoo!, google instanthome > ask the experts blog >
over the last few weeks, bing’s merger with yahoo! has progressed into the much-anticipated next step:
so, should you dive in and spend many extra hours learning  every detail about bing’s algorithm?
our rank checks now show identical results for  our client’s sites on both yahoo!
uncategorized > new developments in search: bing takes over yahoo!, google instant by jennifer grappone on september 10, 2010 there have been two major developments in search over the past few weeks.
next post: gravity search marketing is hiring!
make sure to review google’s suggestions as part of your keyword research activities.
seo pros are long accustomed to rolling with changes in search!
share/bookmark tagged as: bing webmaster, google webmaster, holistic seo, seo news
continue typing “wa,” and the top result will change to walmart before you hit the search button.
uncategorized > new  developments in search: bing takes over yahoo!, google instant new developments in search: bing takes over yahoo!, google instant by jennifer grappone on september 10, 2010 there have been two major developments in search over the past few weeks.
follow @jengrappone gradiva couzin has been working in seo since its early days in 1998.
for example, type in “w” to see weather results.
get in touch to find  out how we can help you!
as another example, google may suggest your product list to searchers in a different order than you would prefer.
as one example, you may be ranking well for the singular variation of a keyword, but google may feature the plural version in the suggest box, which could draw searchers away from typing your preferred keyword variation.
get in touch to find out how we can help you!
so, should you dive in and spend many extra hours learning every detail about bing’s algorithm?
we’ve been helping customers improve their search engine ranks and  conversion rates for over a decade.
in other words, search behavior is a very strong  contributing factor to the phrases that google suggests, and there is very  little that can be done to influence google’s suggestions directly.
google suggest tends to be driven by a combination of keyword popularity and newsworthiness.
this will give you insights into bing’s interpretation of your site, and can alert you to problems that might affect your site’s indexing in bing.
you may begin to notice additional ad impressions for shorter-head keywords than you have received historically.
one sensible way to react to this development is to get verified in bing’s newly enhanced webmaster tools service.
gravity is founded on the expertise of its two partners, authors of the acclaimed seo book "search engine optimization: an hour a day" (wiley, 2006, 2008, 2011).
enjoy the new normal – it will undoubtably change again, and soon!share/bookmark tagged as: bing webmaster, google webmaster, holistic seo, seo news we’ve been helping customers improve their search engine ranks and conversion rates for over a decade.
jennifer advocates a holistic approach to seo, one that combines elements of good writing, usability, search-friendly site design, and link building.
follow @gradiva contact us | ©2005-2010 gravity search marketing.
bing’s organic search results are now powering yahoo!’s results.
leave a comment name * e-mail *
as  another example, google may suggest your product list to searchers in a  different order than you would prefer.
what this means to you: stay the course of holistic seo, but get verified in webmaster tools both google and bing evaluate similar factors when determining organic search results.
from google support: when someone searches using google instant, ad impressions are counted in  these situations: *the user begins to type a query on google and clicks anywhere on the  page (a search result, an ad, a spell correction, a related search).
the user stops typing, and the  results are displayed for a minimum of 3 seconds.
what this means to you: understand how ad impression data is affected.
bing is now estimated to have  approximately 30% of the organic search market share.
with a history as a civil engineer and experience in website and database development, gradiva excels at the technical side of seo, and enjoys facilitating communications between techie- and non-techie folks.
one sensible way to react to this development is to get verified in  bing’s newly enhanced webmaster tools service.
at barnes & noble after starting out in industrial and corporate video production, jennifer grappone became a web project manager before working exclusively in seo starting in 2000.
our rank checks now show identical results for our client’s sites on both yahoo!
website previous post: ask the experts: how can i get more google seller ratings?
the user chooses a particular query by clicking the search button, pressing enter or selecting one of the predicted queries.