yahoo should be your choice for truly local businesses (even if you  don’t have a website) wanting to target people near-by, and looking for  phone calls and in-store traffic.
search marketing viral marketing idea friday - tips for no budget businesses share it:
- you can target by: - state - city - metro area - close to an address - ad serving-uses searchers ip address as well as other “local factors” yahoo overview: - local search ppc - they have a locator page so having a website is optional - you must have a physical business - you have to target from 0-100 miles from business location.
you can reach more people with an ip-targeted campaign then you can going after general words.
your comment (smaller size | larger size) mat siltala categories - blog promotion - branding - business - clients - link building - local search - main - marketing - personal - reputation management - seo - seo industry news - site clinic - site reviews - social media marketing - viral marketing - web analytics - website design - widgets request proposal : name : email : phone : url : most popular - twitter, the most important website since google?
name * e-mail * uri subscribe to comments via email
you can also include area codes in your website and back end meta information  as well as the local ppc campaigns.
google will work better for you locally if you own a website and really want to try to target people by ip-addresses for really targeted local keywords.
beta - services - blog - clients - about - contact content for humans, not search engines.
yahoo serves up ads based on: searches done for that location registered members users location specific on yahoo local when setting up local search campaigns you need to factor in  “localized keywords” and really analyze the best words that people  are searching, and come up with a list of keywords you will target.
posted in local search // (comments) + leave a comment: click here to cancel "reply".
- you must have a website to use google adwords.
yahoo should be your choice for truly local businesses (even if you don’t have a website) wanting to target people near-by, and looking for phone calls and in-store traffic.
search marketing - viral marketing idea friday - tips for no budget businesses leave a comment: click here to cancel "reply".
ad serving-uses searchers ip address as well as other “local  factors” yahoo overview: they have a locator page so having a website is optional
if you enjoyed this post, make sure you subscribe to our rss feed,  or follow chris bennett ontwitter and make sure you check out our free  analytics productblvd status and social media for firefox which is used by more  than 500,000 marketers related posts: google local results gets updated google is putting the local in “local search”
- social media for firefox adds bit.ly (this is really cool) - social media for firefox platinum live *added twitter, mixx, sphinn and tip'd
- yahoo serves up ads based on: - searches done for that location - registered members users - location specific on yahoo local when setting up local search campaigns you need to factor in “localized keywords” and really analyze the best words that people are searching, and come up with a list of keywords you will target.
google: - adwords will allow regional targeting for all accounts.
you can also include area codes in your website and back end meta information as well as the local ppc campaigns.
- you do not need a physical address.
view our ranking cloud « new internet explorer 7.0
you can  reach more people with an ip-targeted campaign then you can going after general  words.
if you enjoyed this post, make sure you subscribe to our rss feed, or follow chris bennett ontwitter and make sure you check out our free analytics productblvd status and social media for firefox which is used by more than 500,000 marketers related posts: share it: posted in local search // (comments) + - google local results gets updated - google is putting the local in “local search” - local search and ideas to implement it into your search engine strategies - two much needed changes at yahoo!
example: a great keyword to go after for a local mattress company (if you live in  salt lake city) is “sandy mattress” or “salt lake city  mattress company” if you are targeting the right areas with your  campaigns anyone in these areas when these words are typed in will find you.
google will work better for you locally if  you own a website and really want to try to target people by ip-addresses for  really targeted local keywords.
example: a great keyword to go after for a local mattress company (if you live in salt lake city) is “sandy mattress” or “salt lake city mattress company” if you are targeting the right areas with your campaigns anyone in these areas when these words are typed in will find you.
» 04-25-06 local search - google-vs-yahoo when setting up local search campaigns start with google and yahoo, but lets break down each one and go from there!
local search and ideas to implement it into your search engine strategies two much needed changes at yahoo!
you must have a physical business you have to target from 0-100 miles from business location.