related content: your email address will not be published.
grades: 1-0 to yahoo!
required fields are marked * name * website comment you may use these html tags and attributes:                seo news categories
-cannot export data to excel or pdf, which limit usage quite a bit.
interesting is at least that it’s mostly men in the age of 25-34 and  45-54 years that’s searching for the keywordsearch engine optimization.
it’s likely yahoo use data from yahoo mail to  draw conclusions about gender and age.
that simply makes no sense at all.
-no  related keywords are displayed.
what is the difference in functionality between yahoo!
clues which data is most reliable, google’s or yahoo’s?
-yahoo doesn’t show any reasons for why search volume might increase or  decrease over time.
data reliability which data is most reliable, google’s or yahoo’s?
on the positive side with the ‘simple graphics’ is that  the page loads very quick, use google data and show news reference volume below  the search volume trend.
-don’t show demographic data, such as age and gender.
search clues and google trends?
-yahoo doesn’t show any reasons for why search volume might increase or decrease over time.
nowadays people are often looking for more specific search  terms.
it’s likely yahoo use data from yahoo mail to draw conclusions about gender and age.
find a screenshot of yahoo clues below: comment: seo specialist believes the reduced  search volume for search engine optimization is because many users have become  more sophisticated.
required fields are marked * name * email * website comment you may use these html tags and attributes:              26 lowden road london n9 8rn england, united kingdom e-mail: info@seospecialist.co.uk phone: +44 (0)800 157 7736 copyright © 2009-2011 by seo specialist ltd.
similarities & difference between yahoo's search clues & google  trends find out which keyword trend tool to use home  »latest seo articles »
however, i find it very unlikely that a majority of people searching for search engine optimization type ‘search engine’ or anything related to ‘dogpile’ after.
google trends +positive with .csv export, so data can  be used after leaving the google trend website.
yahoo: gender and age seo specialist believe data for  both gender and age can be very useful for media buyers, media agencies and  search engine optimisers.
+age: very helpful information for advertisers and when ad texts and slogans are written.
yahoo’s search chart is both clearer and more attractive.
there is no doubt that yahoo clues looks way better than google trends.
but what about negative factors influencing search volume?
the biggest issue for yahoo is probably that very few people search in yahoo for terms related to search engine optimization.
-no related keywords are displayed.
grades: 2-1 to yahoo!
let’s compare yahoo clues with google trends.
let seo specialists help you today.
google trends +positive with .csv export, so data can be used after leaving the google trend website.
perhaps google trends could show bank holidays and other reasons to fluctuating search volume as well.
however, i find it very unlikely that a majority of people searching  for search engine optimization type ‘search engine’ or anything  related to ‘dogpile’ after.
nowadays people are often looking for more specific search terms.
google: keywords and press releases i’m  confident that press releases are one of the major factors for increasing  search volume.
grades: 2-2 between google trends and yahoo search clues.
interesting is at least that it’s mostly men in the age of 25-34 and 45-54 years that’s searching for the keywordsearch engine optimization.
find a screenshot of google trends below: comment: it’s interesting to read press releases for periods in time  which might possibly influence search volume.
graphic appearance which of the two keyword trend tools are most graphically appealing?
it could perhaps also be a reflection of lower search volume for yahoo in general?
+google trends are helpful to find out news that might be possible reasons for traffic volume changes.
which of the two keyword trend tools are most graphically appealing?
functionality what is the difference in functionality between yahoo!
google trends google trends look quite boring to be  honest.
+related searches: both previous and next queries are displayed.
leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published.
google: charts displayed google trends offers charts  and data for a wide range of keywords.
i wish they had this service for more keywords.
new yahoo’s search clues vs google  trends posted on  8 july , 2011 by markus jalmerot in latest seo articles,  seo beginners, seo trends new yahoo’s search clues vs google trends tweet yahoo! have launched a new tool for to spot search trends called yahoo!
it’s very basic, probably to optimise site speed which is focus for google.
search clues and  google trends?
a nice map is also included, displaying where people using yahoo!
you are quickly able to get more info about the target audience, where women are displayed in pink and men in blue.
yahoo clues +gender: seems to be useful advice.
yahoo: charts displayed only two keyword out of 20 i tried was shown in yahoo search clues.
we're a london-based seo company offering bespoke services related to search engine optimization.
find a screenshot of yahoo clues below: comment: seo specialist believes the reduced search volume for search engine optimization is because many users have become more sophisticated.
yahoo’s search chart is both  clearer and more attractive.
you are quickly able to get more info about the  target audience, where women are displayed in pink and men in blue.
google trends google trends look quite boring to be honest.
there is no doubt that yahoo  clues looks way better than google trends.
it’s very convenient to use to spot trend changes.
on the positive side with the ‘simple graphics’ is that the page loads very quick, use google data and show news reference volume below the search volume trend.
+related searches: both previous and next queries are  displayed.
it’s very convenient to use to  spot trend changes.
yahoo: charts displayed only two keyword out of 20 i  tried was shown in yahoo search clues.
it’s very basic, probably to optimise site speed which is focus  for google.
a nice  map is also included, displaying where people using yahoo!
perhaps google trends could show bank holidays and other reasons to fluctuating  search volume as well.
it could perhaps also be a reflection of lower search volume for yahoo  in general?
which is best: yahoo search clues or google trends?
the biggest issue for yahoo is probably that very few people search  in yahoo for terms related to search engine optimization.
+google trends are helpful  to find out news that might be possible reasons for traffic volume changes.
google: keywords and press releases i’m confident that press releases are one of the major factors for increasing search volume.
+age: very helpful information for advertisers and when ad texts and slogans  are written.
while yahoo clues is kind of similar to google trends, there are  a few differences also.
call freephone today0800 157 7736 follow us here yahoo! have launched a new tool for to spot search trends called yahoo!
yahoo: gender and age seo specialist believe data for both gender and age can be very useful for media buyers, media agencies and search engine optimisers.
google: charts displayed google trends offers charts and data for a wide range of keywords.
find a screenshot of google trends below: comment: it’s interesting to read press releases for periods in time which might possibly influence search volume.
while yahoo clues is kind of similar to google trends, there are a few differences also.
related content: yahoo site explore shut down in 1 month from now google lose market share in u.s. to bing yahoo lay off 2000 employees 5 reasons why bing gains market shares while google declines comment 0
i wish they had this service for more  keywords.