subscribe to beyond searchsubscribe to beyond search copyright © 2008 beyond search · arnoldit.com · disclaimer · revolution news theme by brian gardner · log in
i am not sure why the yahoo system does not do a better job of figuring out what i want when i run a query.
i  read in techcrunch a story by ouriel ohayonhere that yahoo sold its kelkoo  property.
navigate  to yahoo.com, click the “shopping” label above the search box, and  you will see the bold face “shopping” to alert you that you are now  running a shopping search.
i read in techcrunch a story by ouriel ohayonhere that yahoo sold its kelkoo property.
its inability to integrate acquisitions has long been one of the  company’s most glaring weaknesses.
but the key point is that the yahoo results includes zero nada zippo penguin bracelets.
someone responded to my earlier criticism of yahoo’s shopping search by pointing me to kelkoo.
i can’t relate to black thumbs, and it is a fact that i  can’t buy a penguin bracelet via the yahoo shopping search system.
its inability to integrate acquisitions has long been one of the company’s most glaring weaknesses.
browse > home /  business strategy, news, online (general), search, yahoo / yahoo shopping search yahoo shopping search november 22, 2008 my mother had a black thumb.
yahoo has  a financial black thumb.
she could plant a flower, and it would die.
the sale of kelkoo proves once again  that yahoo doesn’t integrate its acquisitions in the manner of google.
not much integration evident, do you think?
not only does yahoo have the uncanny ability to muff its acquisitions, yahoo can’t find penguin bracelets.
now enter this query: “penguin bracelet”.
maybe  i am not as tuned into the yahoo “way”?
i can,  however, buy a pink penguin bracelet, a gold penguin bracelet, and silver blue  gray penguin bracelet from google.
yahoo had a shopping search at the time of the 2004 acquisition.
yahoo is a  bit like my mother, not with plants but with growing profitable businesses.
google delivers me penguin bracelets.
google, despite its weird positioning of google products is  getting better.
in my opinion, i don’t think it is very good.
my mother had a black thumb.
maybe it is just a lousy search system and method?
google, despite its weird positioning of google products is getting better.
the sale of kelkoo proves once again that yahoo doesn’t integrate its acquisitions in the manner of google.
i can, however, buy a pink penguin bracelet, a gold penguin bracelet, and silver blue gray penguin bracelet from google.
i can’t relate to black thumbs, and it is a fact that i can’t buy a penguin bracelet via the yahoo shopping search system.
i just don’t buy  that argument.
but the key point is that the yahoo  results includes zero nada zippo penguin bracelets.
well, i got this page of results: now navigate to google, click products, and run the same query.
frankly i am tired of yahoo technologists telling me that yahoo’s  engineering is as good or better than google’s.
i use yahoo less and less because it’s search system continues to unhelpful for me.
what it  doesn’t have is the $450 million the company lost on the deal.
i use yahoo less and less because it’s search system continues to  unhelpful for me.
what it doesn’t have is the $450 million the company lost on the deal.
yahoo has my  mother’s black thumb (may she rest in peace).
maybe yahoo is not as tuned  into what i want when i run a query?
my hypothesis: google has my father’s green thumb.
i just don’t buy that argument.
someone  responded to my earlier criticism of yahoo’s shopping search by pointing  me to kelkoo.
yahoo can own a property for four years and sell it like i would sell one of my  goslings.
frankly i am tired of yahoo technologists telling me that yahoo’s engineering is as good or better than google’s.
i am not sure why the yahoo system  does not do a better job of figuring out what i want when i run a query.
similar queries return similar results.
maybe it is just a lousy search system and  method?
not only does yahoo have  the uncanny ability to muff its acquisitions, yahoo can’t find penguin  bracelets.
stephen arnold, november 22, 2008 written by stephen e. arnold · filed under business strategy, news, online (general), search, yahoo comments are closed.
yahoo is a bit like my mother, not with plants but with growing profitable businesses.
and what about yahoo’s shopping search at this pivotal time of the  retail year?
maybe i am not as tuned into the yahoo “way”?
here’s what i received from the goog: i know these screen shots are difficult to read due to wordpress’s helpful image compression algorithm.
yahoo can own a property for four years and sell it like i would sell one of my goslings.
google delivers me penguin  bracelets.
yahoo has my mother’s black thumb (may she rest in peace).
maybe yahoo is not as tuned into what i want when i run a query?
my  father, on the other hand, could grow tomatoes that would spawn softball-sized  fruit without doing much more than dropping the seed on the ground.
yahoo has a financial black thumb.
my father, on the other hand, could grow tomatoes that would spawn softball-sized fruit without doing much more than dropping the seed on the ground.
stephen arnold, november 22, 2008 written by stephen e. arnold · filed under business strategy, news,  online (general), search, yahoo
now enter this query: “penguin  bracelet”.
and what about yahoo’s shopping search at this pivotal time of the retail year?
yahoo still has its not too useful to me shopping site today.
navigate to yahoo.com, click the “shopping” label above the search box, and you will see the bold face “shopping” to alert you that you are now running a shopping search.
well, that won’t work now, will it.
here’s what i received from the goog: i know these screen shots are difficult to read due to wordpress’s  helpful image compression algorithm.