and while 1/3 of google’s results point back at compsci.ca, one should keep in mind that dan accounts for3807 of the forum posts, and since google has indexed just about every thread, it’s natural that his signature would come up this much.
between 12,170 forum threads (10 posts per thread average), 4300 registered users, and all thewiki pages and various blogs, google seems to have a pretty good coverage of the pages available.
not much more to be said here for now.
analysis of search engine market shares is very inconsistent and varies by up to 50% from source to source.
oncomputer science canada topic, yahoo! has 50% of google’s results, and msn has 7%.
it seems that google attributes to 75~85% of incoming  search engine traffic, yahoo at about 10~15% and msn trailing at about 5%.
google accounted for 95.3%, while yahoo made the remaining4.0% (0.7% unaccounted for.. possibly msn).
though it is interesting to note  that while yahoo! has indexed just 10% of compsci.ca webpages that google has,  the ratio is not the same for all of the web.
msn computer science canada 50,900,000  25,900,000 3,481,737 site:compsci.ca computer science canada 2,970 322 264 percent: 0.0058% 0.0012% 0.0076% turing programming tutorials 1,230,000 208,000 15,917 site:compsci.ca turing programming tutorials 594 291 217 percent: 0.048% 0.140% 1.363% “hacker dan” 14,300 2,370 2,255 site:compsci.ca “hacker  dan” 4,000 375 89 percent: 27.97% 15.82% 3.95% what does this all mean?
“hacker dan” is a very peculiar case to  consider.
they try to be google, but are falling behind.
msn offers a tiny index in comparison, but it might be making up with the quality and variety of results.
decending into a more specific topic ofturing programming tutorials , yahoo! shows just 17% of google’s indexed pages, but assuming  that compsci.ca is indeed the most accurate source on the topic, it’s  interesting to note that yahoo! results in 3 times the accurate (mine!)
your content will be stored  and accessable, but likely lost in the web ofevery other page out there.
i wanted to know what percentage of suchniche searches result with one of my pages.
shows just 17% of google’s indexes, and so  does msn.
msn offered the  best concentration of results on a topic, and a far better concentration of  good results for a specific niche topic.
it seems that google attributes to 75~85% of incoming search engine traffic, yahoo at about 10~15% and msn trailing at about 5%.
decending into a more specific topic ofturing programming tutorials , yahoo! shows just 17% of google’s indexed pages, but assuming that compsci.ca is indeed the most accurate source on the topic, it’s interesting to note that yahoo! results in 3 times the accurate (mine!) matches.
yahoo! and msn, now on par  in results, display a much broader variety of content.
my conclusion to search engine traffic yahoo! and especially msn appear to put variety of resources over the raw  quantity.
how do search engines compare?
and msn have indexed 56, 56, and 55 pages  respectively.
how do indexes compare to other sites?
google indexes more.
they try to be google, but are falling  behind.
yahoo! index size is smaller.
msn offers a tiny index in comparison, but it  might be making up with the quality and variety of results.
a total of 6 searches were performed with each engine: computer science canada site:compsci.ca computer science canada turing programming tutorials site:compsci.ca turing programming tutorials “hacker dan” site:compsci.ca “hacker dan”
using the site: metasearch, i was able to see how many  pages each engine actually has indexed – that is, how many different  pages can actually be found.
– tony [...] full article [...] that’s actaully pretty interesting, i normally use google to do all my searching, but i never thought that msn or yahoo! might have more relevent or better quality results.
very interesting to note that in  search for a very specific keyword, msn resulted in the least hits to a  specific site, but a much broader variety of choices.
some claim yahoo to make up 1/4 of all searches, and place google just slightly ahead.
over the last two months, compsci.ca domain has recieved 20,000 unique visits, 4000 of which wereorganic.
google will index every page it can get to.
posted by asnee » search engine traffic comparison - google,  yahoo!, msn | november 18, 2006, 7:32 am [...] full article [...] posted by freakman | december 9, 2006, 1:58 pm that’s actaully pretty interesting, i normally use google to do all  my searching, but i never thought that msn or yahoo! might have more relevent  or better quality results.
and especially msn appear to put variety of resources over the raw quantity.
altered search history spotted discussion
your content will be stored and accessable, but likely lost in the web ofevery other page out there.
site:compsci.ca the results seem to relate to the incoming traffic, possibly offering a  first clue to this market.
over the last two months, compsci.ca domain has recieved 20,000 unique  visits, 4000 of which wereorganic.
yahoo! and msn, now on par in results, display a much broader variety of content.
since every forum thread looks similar, a large portion of them gets neglected.
search engine traffic comparison – google, yahoo!, msn by tony  ⋅ november 18, 2006 ⋅ post a comment analysis of search engine market shares is very inconsistent and varies by  up to 50% from source to source.
since each engine has a vastly different indexed set size, there needs to be a way to compare them against themselves – against pages each search engine has indexed from other related websites.
shows just 17% of google’s indexes, and so does msn.
since every forum thread looks similar, a large portion of them gets  neglected.
site:compsci.ca the results seem to relate to the incoming traffic, possibly offering a first clue to this market.
using the site: metasearch, i was able to see how many pages each engine actually has indexed – that is, how many different pages can actually be found.
interested to find out for myself, i went looking closer through my access  logs.
compsci.ca’s unique niche content is the turing programming language.
and while 1/3 of google’s results point back at compsci.ca, one  should keep in mind that dan accounts for3807 of the forum  posts, and since google has indexed just about every thread, it’s natural  that his signature would come up this much.
msn offered the best concentration of results on a topic, and a far better concentration of good results for a specific niche topic.
starting out with a general topic, moving on to niche, and finally a very  specific keyword (this site’s co-admin’s alias).
in order to increase the appearance of your website in index, i would recommend offering unique content from page to page.
some bloggers have tried to performtheir own analysis, but  the numbers closer to the truth are in the comments – how many hits do  webmasters actually see?
in order to increase the appearance of your website in index, i  would recommend offering unique content from page to page.
“hacker dan” is a very peculiar case to consider.
though for a more empirical comparison, another related question must be answered –“how often does my website come up in search results?”.
i wanted to know what percentage of suchniche searches result with  one of my pages.
msn google indexes more.
though for a more empirical comparison, another related question must be  answered –“how often does my website come up in search  results?”.
some claim yahoo to make up 1/4 of all  searches, and place google just slightly ahead.
a closer look at the index of this blog specificallysite:compsci.ca/blog supports this theory, as google, yahoo!
a total of 6 searches were performed with each engine: computer science canada “hacker dan” site:compsci.ca “hacker dan”
better yet, msn’s tiny 1% index size results in the best match  for what i’m really looking for –msn has 28 times better  concentration of niche content results than google!.
others accredit the entire  market to google.
feeling under appreciated by thealternative search engines, i went to research further.
interested to find out for myself, i went looking closer through my access logs.
and msn have indexed 56, 56, and 55 pages respectively.
reply to comment your name * e-mail * your blogxhtml: you can use these tags:              comment nevermindnevermind
better yet, msn’s tiny 1% index size results in the best match for what i’m really looking for –msn has 28 times better concentration of niche content results than google!.
others accredit the entire market to google.
feeling under appreciated by thealternative search  engines, i went to research further.
bottom line of search engine comparison google will index every page it can get to.
a closer look at the  index of this blog specificallysite:compsci.ca/blog supports  this theory, as google, yahoo!
google accounted for 95.3%,  while yahoo made the remaining4.0% (0.7% unaccounted for..  possibly msn).
very interesting to note that in search for a very specific keyword, msn resulted in the least hits to a specific site, but a much broader variety of choices.
google – 26,300 yahoo! – 2,623 (10% that of google) msn – 130 (0.5% that of google)
i would love to hear what kind of search traffic others have been getting,  and what i can do to tap into those 15% that yahoo!
between 12,170 forum threads (10 posts per thread average), 4300 registered  users, and all thewiki pages and various blogs, google seems to have a pretty  good coverage of the pages available.
others cover just a fraction.
compsci.ca’s unique niche content is the turing programming  language.
though it is interesting to note that while yahoo! has indexed just 10% of compsci.ca webpages that google has, the ratio is not the same for all of the web.
i would love to hear what kind of search traffic others have been getting, and what i can do to tap into those 15% that yahoo!
msn resulted in a surprise.
starting out with a general topic, moving on to niche, and finally a very specific keyword (this site’s co-admin’s alias).
a fine-tuned search query is a powerful tool.
some bloggers have tried to performtheir own analysis, but the numbers closer to the truth are in the comments – how many hits do webmasters actually see?
how do search engines compare?/ google yahoo!
how much do search engines index?
since each engine has a vastly different indexed set size,  there needs to be a way to compare them against themselves – against  pages each search engine has indexed from other related websites.
– tony best computer science in canada regular expression google code search are google trends flawed?