posted by: vertical is in | january 28, 2006 at 11:29 pm
diller says they fell into this and had a back up plan to sell the business for a song if things didn't work.
i would venture to bet i am not along in this - and yahoo!
[read more] tracked on january 26, 2006 at 01:14 am » the clash mp3 from the prodigy live robbie williams eternity until sting mp3 if you really love me stevie wonder bry...
we would  be very happy to maintain our market share.''
posted by: mohit mahendra | january 25, 2006 at 05:59 pm ps...
posted by: mohit mahendra | january 25, 2006 at 06:00 pm i think this is was a mis understood comment.
upon further consideration, i think this comment was probably intended to reset wall street's expectations.
let's see what happens when the next google comes along.
pm » dio evil or divine mp3 from phil collins a hot night in  paris mp3 nickelback silver side up mp3 rammstein amerika mp3 ...
did they make the right decisions, have a good business strategy and execute extremely well?
and as neither she nor most of the company's current senior managers were there when yahoo!
so are they abandoning search altogether, or just the "search engine" market?
[read more] tracked on january 26, 2006 at 01:14 am » the clash mp3 from the prodigy live robbie williams  eternity until sting mp3 if you really love me stevie wonder bry...
while google is good, history has shown that the best stumble.
« aol: talk about underwhelming | main | google makes
i don't know much about it, but it could be interesting to see in the long term.
bye to yahoo from share in the wealth now that yahoo say the fight is over for them and concedes in a battle that is still young, we at evaal say the battle is ours to finish.
[read more] tracked on february 15, 2006 at 05:51
besides, yahoo quickly showed that it knows the value of features that bring into the search domain what the artificial intelligence of search algorithms cannot - human intelligence.
competition is important for yahoo and others, otherwise innovation will end.
posted by: nabil | january 24, 2006 at 03:14 pm sue decker is about as smart as they come.
posted by: patil | january 24, 2006 at 05:35 pm one thing i learned long ago is never assume.
but i've see this story before.
get points for self-assessment and straightforwardness.
email subscription: « aol: talk about underwhelming | main | google makes
there was literally little, if any, well funded competition.
get points for self-assessment and  straightforwardness.
yahoo's future lies in a different place, as the no1 destination site /portal.
[read more] tracked on january 24, 2006 at 05:41 pm »
yahoo could probably have made some important technical improvements to our search experience, but instead they have decided to pay attention to only their market share.
yahoo was the anti-microsoft force.
the reality is neither likely fit the label.
what does yahoo really want to be?
"it's not our goal to be no. 1 in internet search.
now, we look at google.
the street has been all over yahoo about search for the last year, and the company's repeated promises to "fix the algorithm" have only created more disappointment.
how capable are the google founders?
bye to yahoo from share in the wealth now that  yahoo say the fight is over for them and concedes in a battle that is still  young, we at evaal say the battle is ours to finish.
so decker was presumably just resetting the bar to a level the company can more easily clear.
check out my post and feel free to leave a comment... www.thenewwallstreet.com posted by: the new wall street ceo | january 24, 2006 at 02:02 pm leaving aside the question if the search competition is over (i dont think it is), it is certainly a good thing to be realistic internally and in making strategic decisions at the managment level.
just a handful of years ago, how many people had heard of google?
posted by: techboard | january 24, 2006 at 04:54 pm i am a little bit puzzled as this is a comment by their cfo and not by their r&d chief, dr. prabhakar raghavn.
i'm no rocket scientist
fumbled the search ball back in the 90s  (to go chasing after content and other seemingly sexier pursuits), it seems  pointless to reiterate how disappointing this is, that the search game was once  yahoo!'s to lose.
we know who won between ai and humans.
personally, i think google search is better, but i can not bring myself to switch my homepage from yahoo!, which i have tried several time, i keep going back time and time again.
we would be very happy to maintain our market share.''
i could argue they do it better than anyone else
even if yahoo! maintains a strong number two showing, that will only compliment their strong "stickiness" of the other services offered.
at least they are focused.
they are lining up enemies in every facet of business including the customer ranks.
what experience do i have making that statement?
"we don't think it's reasonable to assume we're going to gain a lot of  share from google," yahoo!
pm » dio evil or divine mp3 from phil collins a hot night in paris mp3 nickelback silver side up mp3 rammstein amerika mp3 ...
company profile on my blog thenewwallstreet.com.
as sue decker put it, though, i would be pleased and relieved if they could just maintain market share.
i would bet there is some significant damage control going on in the yahoo r&d organization today.
right china  decision » january 24, 2006 yahoo waves white flag in search war yahoo! has apparently read the writing on the search wall that everyone  else (except microsoft) has been reading for years: the search game is over and  google has won.
it also cant help retaining or attracting top search talent.
keep the insights coming.
so, is diller telling the truth?
(judging from recent market share losses, though, even this  target may be hard to meet.)
i do like looking at the hot chicks on their personals.
that's the most important question i think.
i suspect the new strategy, with respect to street communications, is to try to set the bar low and then clear it easily.
there is so much left to be done in search.
upon further consideration, i think this comment was probably  intended to reset wall street's expectations.
now we are writing off yahoo, microsoft and any potential innovators.
how good a ceo is semel?
this said, i doubt it's a "trick" to get google to relax so much as an attempt to manage wall street expectations.
posted by: ryan | january 24, 2006 at 12:47 pm i definitely don't think yahoo! should be written off in search.
still, denial never helps, so hats off.
they are diversified to the point, that they attract visitors with their content, services, and web 2.0 initiatives.
i meant features like content tagging on flickr.
that's a hell of a lot more than i can say for yahoo.
i am a little less sanguine about google, yahoo and the sorts than others.
so decker was presumably just resetting the bar to a level the company can more  easily clear.
based on most of the data i've seen, they've lost share every quarter, including this latest one.
oh, and never think the trend will continue.
henry blodget | january 24, 2006 at 04:20 pm it's only a matter of time before china funds a search engine company that will reduce google to rubble.
the comments to this entry are closed.
because all it took was a second well funded competitor to eat their lunch in a period of a few short years.
or are sergey and whatever his name is really brilliant?
right china decision » yahoo! has apparently read the writing on the search wall that everyone else (except microsoft) has been reading for years: the search game is over and google has won.
your friends at vertical ads (http://www.verticalads.com) say it is best to be in it to win.
"we don't think it's reasonable to assume we're going to gain a lot of share from google," yahoo!
posted by: nabil | january 24, 2006 at 03:10 pm ps - maybe this is a trick to get google to relax and let its guard down.
they are a firm second in the search field, far from an after thought, but can be successful focusing their business elsewhere.
i believe both yahoo and google have great futures but also different futures.
that may be the next frontier of search anyways.
henry blodget | january 24, 2006 at 01:51 pm just today i published a yahoo!
google is on a general sherman scorched earth advance.
the street has been all  over yahoo about search for the last year, and the company's repeated promises  to "fix the algorithm" have only created more disappointment.
but, i just look at the pictures.
and if the search market isn't to go the way of online auctions (effective monopoly), that trend has to stop.
i would imagine this would be pretty dicouraging to hear if you are on the yahoo search development team, or really anyone inside yahoo.
what they get paid for.
and while i love the google work environment they have created, i'm not sure the founders are really proven business strategists or executives.
and msn can combine forces and become a stronger no. 2.
the reality of the internet business is that change is at lightning speed.
all of their products and services could be improved with better search.
(judging from recent market share losses, though, even this target may be hard to meet.)
posted by: rick | january 24, 2006 at 07:04 pm search is responsible for something like 95%+ of google's revenue, and probably not more than 75% of yahoo's revenue.
go yahoo, work harder and see what new things are around the corner before tossin in the towel!
cfo sue decker said in a bloomberg article on  jan 23.
yesterday semel was a genius now two geeks are the geniuses.
i'd argue as business people, they don't seem to be.
i am just not so sure it is great to say it publicly.
i mentioned the fact that they are second in the search industry, and i continued to write that this is not of major concern.
in a world where the majority of talent, creativity and revenue lie outside of your company, successful business execs learn to create win-win relationships.
i was reading an article online somewhere that yahoo! is beating google in the race for social networking & social search.
i am far from an internet neophyte yet i never really started using google over yahoo for search until after the ipo.
in any case yahoo lacks innovation.
i don't spend any money.
why should yahoo care so much about automated search as google does?
and msn can combine forces  and become a stronger no. 2.
the street has been all over yahoo about its relative search incompetence, and yahoo has spent the last year promising to "fix the algorithm" and give google a run for its money.
posted by: b | january 24, 2006 at 05:39 pm
[read more] tracked on february 15, 2006 at 10:03 pm
and as neither she nor most of the company's current  senior managers were there when yahoo!
posted by henry blodget on january 24, 2006 at 10:50 am | permalink trackback trackback url for this entry: http://www.typepad.com/services/trackback/6a00d83451656f69e200d83426733a53ef listed below are links to weblogs that reference yahoo waves white flag in  search war: »
now, if the folks up at  redmond can only follow this example, perhaps yahoo!
posted by henry blodget on january 24, 2006 at 10:50 am | permalink trackback url for this entry: http://www.typepad.com/services/trackback/6a00d83451656f69e200d83426733a53ef listed below are links to weblogs that reference yahoo waves white flag in search war: »
what the hell yahoo? from mastermaq's blog one interesting  item floating around the blogosphere today is that yahoo has decided to give up  in the...
the trouble is, given recent trends, i don't think it's going to be easy for yahoo to even maintain share.
mack d. male | january 24, 2006 at 05:44 pm i get my country information from http://www.cwik.com while at the library.
now, if the folks up at redmond can only follow this example, perhaps yahoo!
fumbled the search ball back in the 90s (to go chasing after content and other seemingly sexier pursuits), it seems pointless to reiterate how disappointing this is, that the search game was once yahoo!'s to lose.
and they'll get a chance to reinvent the search game around social networking.
cfo sue decker said in a bloomberg article on jan 23.
but they aren't particularly good at it.
posted by: jd | january 24, 2006 at 04:43 pm yeah, but i'm not exactly sure that it matters that much either.
i've spent the majority of my career advising fortune 500 c-level execs on business strategy and transformation.
interesting take, but i am not convinced yahoo! should be completely written off in terms of search.
what the hell yahoo? from mastermaq's blog one interesting item floating around the blogosphere today is that yahoo has decided to give up in the...
so, with many potential pitfalls, a less than proven management team and one significant source of revenue that they aren't all that good at-just better than anyone else-will they be successful?