the website offers comprehensive info to website owners and developers about structured data markup.
sign up for the anvil media newsletter » location-based social networking white paper get your free whitepaper now » "anvil’s team is cutting edge when it comes to sem knowledge and is continually educating our team on best practices and new techniques.
read more anvil client testimonials » read how anvil helped the cork forest conservation alliance (cfca) increase brand awareness through the use of a google grant.
here is an example of how google displays event data supplied through structured markup: schema.org is super easy to navigate and everything is organized by what type of information you’re looking to markup.
full sem case study »
hopefully this new united front with the top search engines will have us  seeing a lot more helpful information being pulled into our search results and  open up more opportunities to promote business information.
hopefully this new united front with the top search engines will have us seeing a lot more helpful information being pulled into our search results and open up more opportunities to promote business information.
comments are closed.
in an effort to make the web a better place for all – google, bing and yahoo announcedschema.org today.
well, essentially  it’s a way to markup specific information on your site in order to  provide additional detail to search engines on exactly what it is.
you can read more about the announcement on the official google search blog.
according to google  the website’s goal is to be the one stop shop for proper data markup and   create a common markup structure across all major search  engines.
according to google the website’s goal is to be the one stop shop for proper data markup and create a common markup structure across all major search engines.
also stay up-to-date on anvil media's white papers and client news.
anvil has been a great partner and we appreciate all the hard work they’ve put in over the last year."
in an effort to make the web a better place for all – google, bing  and yahoo announcedschema.org today.
webinars home > blog > local seo > google, bing &  yahoo play nice with introduction of schema.org the week in search &  social for june 1 from nonprofit to agency: 3 search engine marketing tips
google’s blog post  boasts about the numerous markups available - from products to tv  shows to music.
what exactly is this structured data i speak of?
well, essentially it’s a way to markup specific information on your site in order to provide additional detail to search engines on exactly what it is.
search engines then take this data and pull it into search results.
here is an example of how google displays event data supplied through  structured markup: schema.org is super easy to navigate and everything is organized by what  type of information you’re looking to markup.
the website offers comprehensive info to  website owners and developers about structured data markup.
wish i had known google, bing & yahoo play nice with introduction of schema.org by brooke snow on june 2, 2011 ·
search  engines then take this data and pull it into search results.
in local seo, search engine  optimization tweet
anvil's enewsletter features the latest seo & ppc news and tips.
google’s blog post boasts about the numerous markups available - from products to tv shows to music.