as of now, google is about 63% market  share, yahoo 19% and bing 12%.
this will be hard since bing is still evolving from being more content-driven to including broader factors such as site quality and inbound linking, so it is a moving target.
call us or contact us today!
look for keywords that send good traffic from yahoo organic, and compare to bing organic traffic for those same keywords.
for analytics, this will depend on what tool you use, such as google analytics, webtrends or omniture.
see http://www.bing.com/webmaster one  downside of this transition is that microsoft still does not have very good  tools for managing organic search results, and yahoo had much  better.
leave a reply mail (will not be published) (required)
you can follow any responses to this entry through therss 2.0 feed.
hopefully microsoft will improve their tools, such as adding the ability to ignore url parameters that do not impact content.
also work to get inbound links that use those keywords in anchor text, and where the linking page uses your keywords in the page title and body text.
given bing will more than  double in volume, and potentially have a 30% share, a more effort should be put  into optimizing for bing search.
bing search volume is about 67% of yahoo, so if there are keywords where yahoo volume is much higher than bing (e.g., 2x or more), then you may want to put some effort in to improving bing seo for your site.
be sure to separate out other sources, such as paid search traffic.
blog home > search engine optimization > yahoo  announces time frame for bing organic search « second  annual for-profit education secret shopper survey leadqual and speed to  lead in the wsj » yahoo announces time frame for bing organic search july 15th, 2010
this entry was posted on thursday, july 15th, 2010 at 5:59 pm and is  filed undersearch engine optimization.
as of now, google is about 63% market share, yahoo 19% and bing 12%.
see http://www.bing.com/webmaster one downside of this transition is that microsoft still does not have very good tools for managing organic search results, and yahoo had much better.
there are a number of automated tools to do this, such ascheckrankings.com and web position gold.
you can follow any responses to this  entry through therss 2.0 feed.
ask.com has 4%, which for most sites is not enough to put effort into optimization.
these are standard seo practices, and will help with both bing and google.
tags: bing, google, seo, yahoo
“ what does this mean for your seo traffic from yahoo?
this will be hard  since bing is still evolving from being more content-driven to including  broader factors such as site quality and inbound linking, so it is a moving  target.
to assess the potential impact, you can look at two things: compare current positions for important keywords in both yahoo and bing,  and look at your website analytics for traffic from each of yahoo and bing  organic search engines.
back in february, 2010 yahoo announced they will be transitioning to using  bing organic search results, and phasing out yahoo’s own organic search  engine.
for now, however, look to be sure you have your keywords present on each relevant page, in the title tag,  tag and body text.
there are a number of automated tools to do this, such ascheckrankings.com and  web position gold.
ask.com has 4%, which for most sites is  not enough to put effort into optimization.
you can leave a response, or trackback from your  own site.
for analytics, this will depend on what tool you use, such as google  analytics, webtrends or omniture.
to assess the potential impact, you can look at two things: for current positions, do a sampling of keywords that are important to your website.
hopefully microsoft will improve their tools, such as  adding the ability to ignore url parameters that do not impact content.
long term, this means we now have only two major search engines to monitor for seo: google and bing.
well, it depends on how well you are doing in bing today.
today yahoo announced to their search advertisers the time frame for that  will be “august/september”: “assuming our testing continues to yield high quality results, we  anticipate that our organic search results will be powered by bing beginning in  the august/september timeframe.
look at where you are in bing and yahoo for each of those.
also be sure to register and check your settings for bing webmaster tools for each of your sites.
look for keywords that send good  traffic from yahoo organic, and compare to bing organic traffic for those same  keywords.
also be sure to register and check your settings for bing webmaster tools  for each of your sites.
long term, this means we now have only two major search engines to monitor  for seo:  google and bing.
given bing will more than double in volume, and potentially have a 30% share, a more effort should be put into optimizing for bing search.
name (required) mail (will not be published) (required)
back in february, 2010 yahoo announced they will be transitioning to using bing organic search results, and phasing out yahoo’s own organic search engine.
this entry was posted on thursday, july 15th, 2010 at 5:59 pm and is filed undersearch engine optimization.
bing search volume is about 67% of yahoo, so if there are keywords where  yahoo volume is much higher than bing (e.g., 2x or more), then you may want to  put some effort in to improving bing seo for your site.
today yahoo announced to their search advertisers the time frame for that will be “august/september”: “assuming our testing continues to yield high quality results, we anticipate that our organic search results will be powered by bing beginning in the august/september timeframe.
also work to get inbound links that use those keywords in anchor text, and  where the linking page uses your keywords in the page title and body  text.
these are standard seo practices, and will help with both  bing and google.
you can leave a response, or trackback from your own site.
well, it depends  on how well you are doing in bing today.
for current positions, do a sampling of keywords that are important to your  website.
for now, however, look to be sure you have your keywords present  on each relevant page, in the title tag,  tag and body text.