find out what position you are in on that particular search, then edit that page slightly to focus more on that phrase.
we suggest you experiment by creating a few new pages on your site.
check google cache everyday until you see the new page listed, once it is in the cache try searching for some of the prominent phrases that appear in your new page.
when you  edit the page to better suite what is being searched it causes the page to be  edited just slightly, not enough for it to be considered a new topic.
separating a few target pages out and having them stay static will  insure you are still accommodating the 'other' search engines.
check google cache everyday until you see the new page listed, once it is in  the cache try searching for some of the prominent phrases that appear in your  new page.
also find out if there are any iterations of that phrase that are searched more often.
we have found this to be absolutely true, and one of the most powerful ways to penetrate highly competitive keyword phrases on google.
we have found this to be absolutely  true, and one of the most powerful ways to penetrate highly competitive keyword  phrases on google.
also find out if  there are any iterations of that phrase that are searched more often.
it is our experience that msn is less  strict about the site being static, but they both are quite different from  google.
when google sees new pages are added and slight changes are  constantly being made, it increases your web sites rankings within search  results.
promotional code: google likes active sites: when your web site is active, google rewards your site with higher  rankings.
when your web site is active, google rewards your site with higher rankings.
there is no lack of advise out there for finding many other ways, the objective here was to share our findings.
(maybe once every week) can cause  your site to be considered more up to date and therefore break the tie.
this effect has proven to be valuable.
we suggest checking your logs to determine what phrases people hit  your site on now.
separating a few target pages out and having them stay static will insure you are still accommodating the 'other' search engines.
yahoo and msn prefer sites to be static for long periods of time before giving them high search results.
performance security troubleshooting planning (vcio) compliance (sas-70)
there is no lack of advise out there for finding many other ways, the  objective here was to share our findings.
they are more interested in what the page has  on it and how long it has been available.
this  effect has proven to be valuable.
slowly modifying your pages to penetrate a  difficult phrase can have a devastating effect on your competition.
allowing  you to slide in slowly.
when you edit the page to better suite what is being searched it causes the page to be edited just slightly, not enough for it to be considered a new topic.
this is  just two ways to cause your site to be viewed as "active" in googles  eyes.
yahoo and msn like static sites: yahoo and msn prefer sites to be static for long periods of time before  giving them high search results.
2012 sitemap | about us | privacy | contact
it is our experience that msn is less strict about the site being static, but they both are quite different from google.
we suggest checking your logs to determine what phrases people hit your site on now.
slowly modifying your pages to penetrate a difficult phrase can have a devastating effect on your competition.
(maybe once every week) can cause your site to be considered more up to date and therefore break the tie.
find out what position you are in on that particular search,  then edit that page slightly to focus more on that phrase.
when google sees new pages are added and slight changes are constantly being made, it increases your web sites rankings within search results.
this is just two ways to cause your site to be viewed as "active" in googles eyes.
allowing you to slide in slowly.
they are more interested in what the page has on it and how long it has been available.