take a look at the choosing a search engine web guide to discover search engines that specialize in delivering academic and trustworthy results, or try the findingdulcinea search enginesweetsearch for a student-safe search environment.
features » technology
our guide to how search engines work  explains basic search technology, and also explains how some online companies  manipulate search engines to favor their web sites in the results.
take a look at the help page of the search engine you are using to get advice about that particular engine.
this pdf will show you how to get fewer results using specific search terms, or get more results using general search terms.
this might mean clicking through to the third, tenth or even twentieth  page of search results (or modifying your search term and trying again).
tip 2: choose your search terms wisely a search engine is not human, and cannot read your mind.
if you aren’t finding the results that you want, you have some options: search again using different search terms, try using search tips recommended by the search engine you are using, or even move on to a new search engine or database and start from the beginning.
tip 2: choose your search terms wisely a search engine is not  human, and cannot read your mind.
by: main topics ------------------------
tip 4: learn how search engines work, and make them work for you although the technology behind each search engine varies slightly, there are some basic things you can learn about how search engines work that can help you improve your search skills.
most recent features valentine's day: literature of love sites for learning about the 50 states barack obama, the president of the united states click for more features about us press newsletter sign-up terms of service privacy policy our team site tour contact us educators media store © 2012 dulcinea media, inc. - read our blog - sign up for our newsletter - send us feedback - live updates (rss) - add to favorites advertisement
- about us| - faq| - contact us quick search
the  daily tilt the foodie the olympians the way to work top stories travel travel  tales tv to see weekly feature what's next?
quick search technology browse by: main topics ------------------------
the american library association’s wikitool kit for the expert web searcher lists web search resources by topic area—news, blog, multimedia, etc.—this will be helpful if you or your students are looking for a particular type of online resource during your research.
most search engines are not making a recommendation that you use the first search result.
tip 3: ask for help from the search engine tip 2 covered some ways that you can improve your searches on any search engine, but each engine has special tips and tricks of its own.
take a look at the help page of the search  engine you are using to get advice about that particular engine.
spending a little time finding the right search engine in the beginning could save you hours of searching later.
all it has to work with are the words that  you enter into it, so choosing those words wisely is important.
the information you seek is most likely  somewhere online, so finding it will take creativity, and flexibility in your  approach to research.
complete  index today's features americas art and entertainment art in the round autos  best sites business careers education environment family and relationships fd  interview finance focus on food happy birthday health hidden beach holidays  homes human interest international libraries links movies must-see video  national people places playlist politics religion and spirituality science shop  around the web shopping site spotlight sports suspicious sites technology
don’t limit yourself to using google,  yahoo and bing; especially for academic research these common search engines  might not be the best solution.
the reason a  result appears in the top spot after a search simply means that it is the best  match to what you typed, not that it necessarily has the information you are  looking for or is a credible or trustworthy site.
this pdf will show you how to get fewer results using specific  search terms, or get more results using general search terms.
choosing a search engine specific to  your needs means you won’t have to sift through pages of irrelevant  results or inadequate sources during your search.
tip 5: search result #1 isn’t always the best this is an  important tip to keep in mind while searching.
don’t limit yourself to using google, yahoo and bing; especially for academic research these common search engines might not be the best solution.
take a look at the choosing a search engine web guide  to discover search engines that specialize in delivering academic and  trustworthy results, or try the findingdulcinea search enginesweetsearch for a  student-safe search environment.
you’ve probably seen boolean logic in use even if you don’t  recognize the term.
no search engine is perfect, but armed with a few tips for better searching you can get great results out of (almost) any search engine.
tip 3: ask for help from the search engine tip 2 covered some ways  that you can improve your searches on any search engine, but each engine has  special tips and tricks of its own.
webquest.org suggests having your students start by making a list ofwords that must, might or mustn’t be in the search results—this can help you narrow down what search terms to use during your search.
choosing a search engine specific to your needs means you won’t have to sift through pages of irrelevant results or inadequate sources during your search.
in this feature - tip 1: use the right search engine or database - tip 2: choose your search terms wisely - tip 3: ask for help from the search engine - tip 4: learn how search engines work, and make them work for you - tip 5: search result #1 isn’t always the best - tip 6: if at first you don’t succeed, search and search again make search engines work for you: tips for better searches october 27, 2011 by haley a. lovett
tip 1: use the right search engine or database search engines are not one-size-fits-all, and often finding the best result  means starting in the right place.
features »  technology tip 1: use the right search engine or database tip 2: choose your search terms wisely tip 3: ask for help from the search engine tip 4: learn how search engines work, and make them work for you tip 5: search result #1 isn’t always the best tip 6: if at first you don’t succeed, search and search again make search engines work for you: tips for better searches october 27, 2011  by haley a. lovett
the american library  association’s wikitool kit for the expert web searcher lists web search  resources by topic area—news, blog, multimedia, etc.—this will be  helpful if you or your students are looking for a particular type of online  resource during your research.
the  search engine is only a helper, you are the researcher.
the daily tilt the foodie the olympians the way to work top stories travel travel tales tv to see weekly feature
reading more  about search engine technology can help you and your students avoid unsavory  search results.
most recent features valentine's day: literature of love sites  for learning about the 50 states barack obama, the president of the  united states click for more features about us    press    newsletter sign-up     terms of service    privacy policy    our team     site tour    contact us    educators     media store © 2012 dulcinea media, inc. sign up for our newsletter
it refers to and, or and other connecting words that help a search engine understand what you want.
tip 6: if at first you don’t succeed, search and search
the information you seek is most likely somewhere online, so finding it will take creativity, and flexibility in your approach to research.
webquest.org suggests having your students start by making a list ofwords that  must, might or mustn’t be in the search results—this can help you  narrow down what search terms to use during your search.
complete index today's features americas art and entertainment art in the round autos best sites business careers education environment family and relationships fd interview finance focus on food happy birthday health hidden beach holidays homes human interest international libraries links movies must-see video national people places playlist politics religion and spirituality science shop around the web shopping site spotlight sports suspicious sites technology
for example typing “define:yourword” will  get you a list of definitions of your word.
all it has to work with are the words that you enter into it, so choosing those words wisely is important.
our guide to how search engines work explains basic search technology, and also explains how some online companies manipulate search engines to favor their web sites in the results.
if you aren’t finding the results that you want, you have some options:  search again using different search terms, try using search tips recommended by  the search engine you are using, or even move on to a new search engine or  database and start from the beginning.
if your search results still aren’t exactly what you want, try thetips for better searches pdf—you can print it out and leave it by the computer for reference.
tip 5: search result #1 isn’t always the best this is an important tip to keep in mind while searching.
spending a little time  finding the right search engine in the beginning could save you hours of  searching later.
it also provides tips for improving search terms.
the reason a result appears in the top spot after a search simply means that it is the best match to what you typed, not that it necessarily has the information you are looking for or is a credible or trustworthy site.
you’ve probably seen boolean logic in use even if you don’t recognize the term.
no search engine is perfect, but  armed with a few tips for better searching you can get great results out of  (almost) any search engine.
there aremany advanced features that can help you get quick answers to a question.
this might mean clicking through to the third, tenth or even twentieth page of search results (or modifying your search term and trying again).
the search engine is only a helper, you are the researcher.
reading more about search engine technology can help you and your students avoid unsavory search results.
it also provides  tips for improving search terms.
it refers to and, or and other connecting words that help a  search engine understand what you want.
tip 4: learn how search engines work, and make them work for you although the technology behind each search engine varies slightly, there are  some basic things you can learn about how search engines work that can help you  improve your search skills.
visit internet tutorials’ boolean searching on the internet resource for a quick introduction to using boolean logic in searches.
visit internet tutorials’ boolean  searching on the internet resource for a quick introduction to using boolean  logic in searches.
if your  search results still aren’t exactly what you want, try thetips for better  searches pdf—you can print it out and leave it by the computer for  reference.
most search engines are not  making a recommendation that you use the first search result.
there aremany advanced features that can help you get quick  answers to a question.
for more advanced students of search, understanding boolean logic can greatly improve search results.
for example typing “define:yourword” will get you a list of definitions of your word.
explore many of the  search results you are shown and decide for yourself what is the best resource  to use.
tip 1: use the right search engine or database search engines are not one-size-fits-all, and often finding the best result means starting in the right place.
for more advanced students of  search, understanding boolean logic can greatly improve search results.
explore many of the search results you are shown and decide for yourself what is the best resource to use.