she'd like to use her hometown's name as a brand, but unfortunately other people live there as well, and for some reason they object to the idea.
today is blogday, an annual event where bloggers point the way to five  “new” blogs.
this time salonis sounding the alarm.
via wired's table of malcontents blog.
because i enjoy being perverse, however, i'd also suggest that you read slate's rebuttal.
will they get to look at the company's financials?
so far there are just two  products, and stores still need to buy them (because that will be a tough sell).
labels: on the web sunday, september 16, 2007 batali's blog some of you may recall mario batali’s june article about food bloggers .
i have struggled to make my tasting notes readable, both here and in  print, but i grew up in the "list all the aromas" school, and that's  a tough habit to break.
what do you think about the “shock treatment” of  modern male food writers?
permalink salon has an interview with ed, my editor at the art of eating.
i had to laugh at this quote: "a reader not long ago wrote to me saying: 'you are the guy who had the courage to say all coffee in north america is over-roasted,' and i probably did say something nearly like that."
we have the ability to talk about how it moves us (or doesn’t).
our readers bond with us, learn about our lives, and trust our recommendations in ways most wine writers can’t imagine.
a perfectly timed pause, and then, "so you can remind yourself what real wine tastes like.")
too bad the author could only find hosts who care more about the impression  they make than the joy of friendship; these people sound dreary.
right now he’s only taking nominations, so if a wine blog is mentioned you don’t need to nominate it again.
but don't count on its glucose to "give you wings," as the ad says.
next they’ll tell us that rosés aren’t all sweet fruit punch drinks.
fingers have already pointed to global warming; as with the cell phone theory, no experiments have shown conclusive connections.
i hadn’t heard the term until i saw the article, though the technique seems to be all over the avant-garde cooking scene.
it's worth noting that she doesn't have kids (or i don't think she does), but jacques pepin suggested the same principle.
the money — over $60,000 last year — all goes to the un’s world food program.
personality matters.
if i want to read uneducated, fawning press about some new health effect of wine, i’ll turn to newspapers.
here's my recommendation: how to make your own mayonnaise at cookingforengineers.com.
his points mirror ones i made in my sfist piece about hosting dinner parties , but he also covers polite ways to invite guests and get rid of ones that won’t leave.
if i want to read page after page of "berries-cherries-flowers" tasting notes and irrelevant scores, i’ll pick up one of the big wine magazines.
permalink tyler of dr. vino just sent me an article about thomas keller’s empire that casually mentions his forthcoming frozen food line.
" labels: on the web posted by derrick.
geese sometimes eat more on their own than they get in a foie gras feeding, though they don't sustain that eating habit as long as gavage lasts.
holy cats!they own everything.
blend 1pkg pectin, 1c sugar.
a wine's sweet spot is the alcohol level at which it tastes the most balanced; for any given wine, there may be 3 or 4 such spots, scattered about the field of possibilities.
put ice and salt and small baggie into large baggie.
my friend frank sent out a link to his business's new blog, which  chronicles the travels of blue danube's web designer and his friend through the  wine country in the balkans.
diethylene glycol allowed wine makers to sweeten wine even when the grapes didn’t have enough sugar.
we can use the first-person perspective that few feature wells allow.
i did manage to figure it out, though.
"real food" campaign that she wants to start a netroots campaign to reclaim the term real food.
art of eating;" i imagine ed will also laugh to see his quarterly love letter to the traditional food of the world—often the product of rural frugality—cast as a must-have bourgeois accessory, though the demographic is probably accurate.)
will the mcmoms fall prey to this spin?
permalink after my vinovation piece came out in the art of eating, the magazine received a small flood of letters, some of which are published in the current issue.
so far there are just two products, and stores still need to buy them (because that will be a tough sell).
go nominate your favorite sites for awards and virtual glory at well fed.
there’s even a recipe for brown butter consomme to get you started.
i’m not a prescriptivist about grammar, despite what you may think.
fromsous vide cooking to instant smoke flavoring, this gallery made me want to fill out my christmas list early.
usually gewurztraminer.
but i'll let you parents make your own decisions about her post.
i'm a freelance food and wine writer and computer programmer.
in 1993, stephen jay gould wrote an essay entitled "cordelia's dilemma" describing the aversion to publishing negative results.
for hope is one end-of-year tradition in the food blogosphere; the food blog awards are another.
you’ll get a chance to vote on the finalists in a few weeks.
deetrane is a wine bargain hunter, and found a great source for bottles well below market value.
or just me and other foodies?
permalink monday, july 02, 2007 search on food and cooking harold mcgee has been working with google to provide a search tool for on food and cooking, the must-have book for every cook's shelf.
permalink i just noticed a note on a good beer blog that michael jackson, the great beer writer, has passed away.
tish has attacked the problem with his signature wit, putting outa satirical newsletter that skewers the stewart empire.
labels: dinner party, on the web posted by derrick.
he's always seemed to have a good attitude: this is what we're eating for dinner, and if you don't like it the kitchen is right over there.
here’s one to ponder: what is bimbo break?
permalink i’ve been super busy of late, but i hope that posts will soon resume with their normal vigor.
but blue cheese perfume?
it’s not a big deal, but it was fun to do.
her first topic: how to store wine, before you open it and after.
he looks at the complex array of factors that have led us to a world where every california wine has more than 14% alcohol.
or a cuisinart ice cream maker?
the unidentified writer notes that the hefty price tag pays for simple confections made with common chocolate.
how would that be different than now?
food in a campaign they callthe search for real food.
comics curmudgeon - nothing gets me giggling like josh's sarcastic rundown  of the morning comics page.
novella has written for salon about her experiences  as a hard core urban farmer in oakland, and she's working on a memoir about it  as well.
when the waiter arrives with your wine, you'll obviously need to remind him that his station is beneath you by barking demands while he pours, like, "keep it coming, robespierre," or, "don't forget that i can buy and sell you, you miserable cur."
but regina at gastropoda posted a note that batali has started to blog at  serious eats.
when i started to blog, and even when i started to write professionally, i  found it hard to resist marketing spin.
it makes you wonder about the lack of bias in those wine critics who  claim to taste wines blind but in fact know the grape and region before they  sip.
espresso preferences are subjective: illy is just one style of espresso that when pulled properly has a strong constituency based on its balanced sweetness and moderate acidity.
the pr person who sent me the link mentioned that they'd be looking for good "real food" blog posts to highlight.
it makes you wonder about the lack of bias in those wine critics who claim to taste wines blind but in fact know the grape and region before they sip.
a few days ago, i posted about the shot’s assertion that the french laundry was using mediocre, expensive coffee in lieu of making a good cup.
not fast cooking on a grill: that's called grilling.
fifty years ago, 90 per cent of the birds for foie gras were geese.
because the reason why there’s a 1986 report about diethylene glycol in wine is that the year before, the international press went ballistic upon learning that a few austrian producers in the thermenregion had been adding that chemical to their wine.
when the stoic mulard breed came on the scene in the 1970s, it transformed the industry overnight.
today's fart party comic  offers alternative openers.
a tooth-mounted flavor sensor?
of course,as i've said before, the real secret is to not tell your dinner guests what went wrong.
novella has written for salon about her experiences as a hard core urban farmer in oakland, and she's working on a memoir about it as well.
i guess everyone’s writing about food today, even if they’re not writing for a food section.
i could combine my love of video games with my love of wine, though i’m not a big fps fan.
how about two plastic baggies?
because if bon appétit is the food media's newsweek and saveur is the economist, then the art of eating is the new york review of books: sometimes impenetrable, often spellbinding, and never, ever reductive.
you don't see the 99 other trials that failed.
permalink my friend frank sent out a link to his business's new blog, which chronicles the travels of blue danube's web designer and his friend through the wine country in the balkans.
so you can imagine my excitement when i learned that hanayama, one of japan's best commercial puzzle producers, has partnered with the chocolate company meiji seika to produce chocolate polyonimo puzzles.
tom wrote of the finalists, “the collection of finalists … is a stellar example of all the things that are outstanding about the wine blogosphere.”
the pr representatives haven't responded to his emailed queries yet, says erik.
this isn’t a surprise — america’s favorite soft drink company is a sprawling mass of a corporation — but the listen masse is quite a sight.
labels: not about food, on the web posted by derrick.
tracking dna fingerprints sounds like an episode ofnumb3rs, but our real abilities are almost as impressive as the fictional feats of mathematics from the tv show.
his search field appears on the right side of the site, and the results appear on the right side of the google search site.
we can teach and inform.
i didn't see anything in the article about tours of pork farms for the bacon, slaughterhouses, or shantytowns where slaughterhouse workers live.
i'm not talking about smalltalk or prolog, languages out of the mainstream but in general use; no, i'm talking about ones such asbefunge and whitespace, languages that no one in their right mind would use.
(note: sorry for those who clicked on the earlier link only to find that it  was an old, old blog.
the demonstration is near the end of the video, so skip ahead if you'd like.
i have felt the sting of being overlooked for awards, but i finally remembered that i write owf for my own benefit; my readers seem to keep coming back, so who cares if i don’t have a little badge in my sidebar?
permalink my friend joe sent around a link to this charming short film from 1993 of people eating sour death balls.
or is there a tipping point at work here?
labels: announcements, on the web posted by derrick.
equator coffees & teas does not supply, nor has it ever supplied, the espresso for the french laundry which comes from illy.
permalink new york's wine regions have received good press, but it can be difficult to find the wines outside that state.
the mystery is how they will be able to tell the difference.
permalink not about food: blogday 2007 take the owf 5-year anniversary reader survey.
labels: curmudgeon, on the web posted by derrick.
the chronicle has posted a sprawlinggift guide to aid your buying decisions.
permalink file this under "two wrongs don't make a right."
permalink saturday, august 25, 2007 financial times on the alice waters culinary school the financial times has an article about the many chez panisse alumni who  have opened up their own bay area businesses.
i’m sure he’ll show us veterans how it’s done, assuming he can sustain his blog for long enough.
that edward behr is not, despite what the associated press says, the edward behr who wrotethe artful eater and who publishes the art of eating quarterly.
dan barber wrote an in-depth op-ed piece for the new york times that articulates many of the problems with our current agricultural system.
the judging process was straightforward: anyone could nominate a blog in any of the categories, and when nominations closed, tom sent each of the judges a spreadsheet with all the nominees.
violent acres - she's often blunt; she's often caustic.
terry and i agree about what makes good wine, but i am more accepting of vinovation's role within the context of modern wine making.
does s/he drop words from sentences?
why is this a problem?
then, when your server has completed the pour, it is customary to raise your hand as if to strike his face.
unfortunately, the interesting news angle appears only briefly at the end of the article: “but he refuses to grow complacent or forget that his good fortune is an omen.
they want to  stimulate discussion about the benefits of cooking and make constructive  suggestions to diners on food stamp budgets.
but, really, you could order domino's and beer and we'd be  happy guests; the point is to hang out and enjoy each other's company.
i gave 50 points for the “so what?” factor, which varied based on the category.
it's always been possible to produce high-fat livers without force-feeding the birds through gavage (using a tube to feed the birds, a practice that dates back to roman times).
über-mathematician john conway published the algorithm, an adjunct to his system for determining the day of week of any given date, in the second volume of the original winning ways series.
permalink some of you know that alongside my passion for food and wine, i have a deep-seated love for puzzles of all shapes and sizes.
we can introduce our readers to something beyond the mass-market bottles and the everyday grapes.
permalink i was trying to solve a puzzle in the latest issue of the enigma, the monthly publication ofthe national puzzlers’ league, and i decided the answer might be one of the coca-cola brands.
permalink if you've ever heard me talk about screw caps, you know i'm a fan.
while pundits quoted in the article say the move  could backfire, i think mcdonald's has come up with a brilliant idea.
well, not for a couple hundred years.
regarding the panama geisha served at the french laundry: after visiting the esmeralda farm, i arranged for one of owners to meet the french laundry staff and provide background on the coffee varietal and microclimate prior to introducing this coffee.
let these women ask "pointed" questions, and then spin them a comfortable answer that they'll post for all their readers to see.
(technically, i’ll just runthe program i wrote last year, but i have some features to add.)
writing is a craft before it’s an art, and almost anyone can learn the craft.
our dinner parties sit far to the right on the bell curve, but i don't cook the way i do to impress people: i cook the way i do because i enjoy it, and i want to do something special for our friends.
i’ll tell you what bimbo break isn’t: the answer to the puzzle.
he also alludes to the "label" experiment mentioned inmindless eating, in which the same wine with a napa label gets more praise than when it sports a montana label, though in this case he mentions "vin de table" versus "grand cru" as the variables.
permalink my co-worker aaron sent me this link to dinner in the sky.
still, if anyone has more information, i'd love to hear it.
as i said before, i don’t know anything about coffee, but i’m willing to let people defend themselves and correct misimpressions.
i buy special ingredients or hand make them because they taste better, not because i want to pass muster with my guests.
put ice and salt and  small baggie into large baggie.
it's not to prove the wine isn't poisoned, says urban legend debunking site snopes.com.
shouldn't we have seen a gradual decline in bee colonies inversely proportional to increased cell phone usage?
neither of these are really problems, but do it all the time and you become tiresome.
permalink harold mcgee has been working with google to provide a search tool for on food and cooking, the must-have book for every cook's shelf.
you can do it with a wide  range of liquids, and you don’t need any equipment besides a refrigerator  and a freezer.
"you make your wine in the  vineyard?
wired magazine deconstructs a can's ingredient list and offers real-world (not marketing-hype) information about the effects of each item.
(some of my favorites: "so you weren't making balanced wines with low alcohol?
neither of these are really problems, but do  it all the time and you become tiresome.
this is inevitable; i judge the relevance of any award by the amount of controversy it causes.
it doesn't look too difficult,  given the interview and the drawing.
what the puck? tyler of dr. vino just sent me an article about thomas keller’s empire  that casually mentions his forthcoming frozen food line.
it may not be who you think.
i interpret that phrase to mean “new, perhaps, to you” rather than “less than one year old.”
there's a reason none of my clients consider a p.r. person or a marketing rep a valid source.
i don't have a  problem with hellmann's as a food product—none apart from a general  stance against flavorless, chemical-laden industrial foods, anyway—but is  there any food less real than the preservative-laden spread?
the answer isn't "the title of a hemingway novel."
and they stress more readily than ducks.
the prions behind the brain-wasting illness didn't take hold in the engineered cows.
this is a common subject at the wine writers' symposium, where karen macneil  pushes us to write interesting tasting notes.
then i gave 40 points for writing ability: can the blogger communicate in a logical way?
the real sauce is a snap to make, especially if you use a food processor.
anisman left a similar comment here, and i posed the question to clark.
(for the graphics awards, i just gave a single score.)
i stress about dinner parties, but only because i want the food to taste good, not because i'm worried that my friends will think less of me if something isn't perfect.
rbgh: it's jesus for cows.
as bloggers, we can tell our readers why a given wine matters (or doesn’t) and where it fits in the world.
screw caps are great, he says, but so are corks.
i suppose i should mention that i have a bit part in terry's germany  catalog this year.
if you ask about which wine to pair with indian food, expect a one-word answer.
i'll have to think about my real food  manifesto a bit; i haven't had several hours on a plane to stew about it.
but consumers have never accepted the product as foie gras.
unfortunately,  the interesting news angle appears only briefly at the end of the article:  “but he refuses to grow complacent or forget that his good fortune is an  omen.
and do you think mcdonald's will let these women visit the plants and apple farms unannounced?
there's a reason none of my clients  consider a p.r. person or a marketing rep a valid source.
multiple studies have debunked the so-called sugar high.
will they get to sit in on the meetings where the attendees discuss ways to make advertisements that get children into the restaurant?
other hobbies: i love reading above all other hobbies.
but she's also funny, introspective, and  thought-provoking.
as someone who pored through all the nominees, i had the opposite view: is this the best we can do?
permalink i have a fondness for the esoteric programming languages of the world.
permalink just in case you've missed the link on the other food blogs you read, go watchstephen colbert's satirical look at rbgh.
would we, sending mail into the town?
via boing boing labels: culinary explorations, on the web posted by derrick.
as any roaster knows, the key is always control over the variables that effect espresso, and, as any roaster knows, the same espresso can yield different results at different locations under different hands.
at best, they silently discard the results, ensuring that other scientists have to duplicate their work.
there's still time to sign up for my spring class, fundamentals of wine ii (note that you don't need to take fundamental i first).
turkey doesn’t make you sleepy, and the day after thanksgiving isn’t the biggest shopping day of the year.
an automatic wine twirler?
, they take the lazy short cut of espousing the merits of “the most expensive coffee in the world” on their menus any thoughts on this from you all?
my friendaren gets a mention for his website, where he helps people get a table at the french laundry.
labels: my writing elsewhere, on the web, wine wine wine posted by derrick.
kidsdomain.com gives a guide to making ice  cream in plastic bags.
i am a fanatical cook, and consider my cuisine to be heavily influenced by french, italian, and american cuisines.
steinberger, quoting a researcher, mentions the classic "white  wine" vs. "red wine" experiment in which a white wine with red  dye results in red wine descriptions.
"you make your wine in the vineyard?
even if they don't approve or edit the  content—and i assume they do—every visitor to that site will  conflate hellmann's and real food.
everyone has to swear and shock.
permalink want a safe topic for the family’s thanksgiving dinner chatter?
i assume dessert is "pie in the sky."
simply put, we cannot compel those on the front lines of retail to have a passion for the process.
i consider myself an opera buff.
labels: on the web saturday, july 14, 2007 bonnie's real food campaign ethicurean's bonnie powell has gotten so riled up about the  hellman's/yahoo!
permalink friday, june 15, 2007 brilliant mcdonald's pr
the newsletter is required reading for anyone who cares about the domestic food supply and the policies that shape it.
the responses will give you a nice monday chuckle.
the restaurant guys had rowan on their show to discuss the subject.
no bees, no crops, no food.
nothing in the ten-page article will surprise anyone who knows the basics of chocolate-making, but it's still worth a skim to see how the writer attacks their prices and their claims.
he noticed a tag informing the consumer that the fish was dyed, which is a good practice, but then he wondered how this fits into the company's stated policy to avoid all foods with artificial colorings and flavorings.
it's easy to see how a corporate funder could create a "cordelia's dilemma" for a research team.
(of course i call out specific sites  throughout the year as well).
(my co-workers once changed the name of our company's "barbecue" to cookout, just to avoid hearing me rant about this topic.
figuring out what caused the food poisoning at olive garden may be even trickier than it has been for taco bell.
i could probably name a dozen things i wasn't happy  about forclotilde's dinner party—from subtle flavor quibbles to  components that never made it out of the kitchen—but i don't imagine that  any of the guests went home thinking, "well, too bad that didn't work  out."
labels: on the web posted by derrick.
it also reversed the trend toward sweeter wines: today, austria’s non-dessert whites are bone-dry, in contrast to germany’s.
at recent barista competitions the trend was towards very tangy, citrusy, salty origin espresso.
modern hosts worry about serving the best food, finding the most local ingredients, using the best china, hand making everything, receiving judgment about their food, and so forth.
the staff took the time to educate themselves on the agronomy of this coffee farm.
labels: on the web wednesday, july 11, 2007 croatian wine country travels
permalink last week, one of my students asked me about a practice he had heard of where winemakers add chips to wine instead of putting it in barrel.
taste the real thing, and you'll wonder how anyone considers hellmann's to be mayonnaise.
skip lombardi wrote to me about his food stamp challenge, in which he and his significant other are trying to live on food stamp amounts.
meanwhile, tish reminded me about martha stewart's attempt to trademark katonah.
how do you feel when you host a dinner party?
or recruit a friend who knows something about mechanics.
permalink rowan jacobsen took the managing editor position at the art of eating about two years ago.
even when there has been on-site training (which we do), the roaster has limited influence over the final espresso translation.
i've been known to be absorbed by buffy the vampire slayer (like, every time a new season comes out on dvd).melissa on www.flickr.com
twenty-two diners get the table for eight hours for about 8000 euros.
via chow, which asks good questions about how deep the nutritional analysis will be.
or as coca-cola's chief creative officer esther lee, says inthis article at adage, "our achilles heel is the discussion about obesity."
permalink my bacon and egg risotto caused a little ripple in the food blogosphere.
still, it's always nice to see the topic brought to national attention, and the article does offer some insights for the locavore in winter.
put ingredients in small baggie.
the surprise here isn't the country of origin: spain, like belgium, produces a small amount of foie gras.
look instead to the farmer's technique.
the incident also spawned every joke about antifreeze in the wine, including the one in the first season of the simpsons.
there were one or two categories where i wished i could submit just three finalists, not five.
via boing boing and jack labels: on the web posted by derrick.
start making compromises, and you win loads of cash you can use to bribe third world leaders.
anyway, it doesn’t sound like we’ll see his face plastered throughout the frozen food section quite yet.
permalink last year, tom wark at fermentation hosted the american wine blog awards, and they proved popular enough to do a second time.
it just goes to show that when you snark about someone else’s misinformation, you always end up making a mistake yourself.)
but, hey, bonnie, i thought you were on vacation.
it only  keeps for a week in the refrigerator, instead of the months and months that  hellmann's will hold up, but which expiration date sounds more like real food?
as eric notes, terry writes with eloquence and passion about  germany, austria, champagne, and the larger world of wine.
permalink every food blogger has pointed to pollan's sprawling new york times article about "nutritionism."
go the ethical route, and you piss off upper management.
i'm usually not even hungry come dinnertime; lack of appetite is a standard feature of computer programmers.
read their explanation of this tradition.
we can show them that high quality doesn’t only come from a big magazine.
i disapprove of its anti-union philosophy, its phony "we love local food" stance, and its bullying of grimaud farms.
no one else has done as much to educate people  about the fantastic traditional beers that exist around the world, and his  wisdom will be sorely missed.
sadly, the document’s not available online: maybe i’ll look it up the next time i’m at the library.
monday, september 24, 2007 thomas keller's frozen food.
you add a little gelatin to the liquid, freeze it, and then thaw it in the refrigerator.
is anyone shocked by a bourdain tirade anymore?
the restaurant serves the hilton in the maldives, and it's sort of a reverse aquarium: you don't surround the fish; they surround you.
one of his recent articles for the magazine coveredumami, the fifth taste that westerners have just begun to discuss and study in an overt way.
i’ve done this from time to time with wine reviews, but maybe her stream will inspire me to do it more.
permalink clark smith, the head of vinovation, has an appellation america article about high alcohol levels in california wine.
have i just ensured that i’ll never get a  reservation again at the french laundry?
i suppose i should mention that i have a bit part in terry's germany catalog this year.
permalink wired offers advice on sabering champagne bottles—slicing off the top of the bottle, cork and glass and all.
permalink wednesday, june 06, 2007 the new york times on dinner parties the new york times has a close-to-home article about foodie dinner parties.
now you can listen to short pieces about organic, local, and ethical food while you walk to work.
click here for the itunes link.
via heather champ labels: on the web posted by derrick.
"real food" campaign that she wants to start a  netroots campaign to reclaim the term real food.
via ethicurean, whose digest writer and husband were actually at clotilde's dinner, where i did in fact serve home-cured olives.
commands include "put x in the bowl" and "mix together.
are you out to impress?
pour yourself a glass from a local winery and give it a read.
permalink jack sent me links to a guest blogger's posts at brooklynguy's wine and food blog.
ccd is a catastrophe breaking over world agriculture like a tsunami.
i haven’t memorized them, of course, so i looked them up.
a cry for flavor smacks of food snobbery to many, even if he's right that small farms and local distribution networks make for better-tasting ingredients.
i’ll post the results soon.
it just goes to show that when you snark about someone  else’s misinformation, you always end up making a mistake yourself.)
louise represents the current generation of the famous leakey family, who have unearthed and explored africa's role as the cradle of humanity.
i saw that letter, because the rest of it fumed about letting me write about vinovation.
he champions biodynamic wines here in the u.s.,  and his sporadically updated blog injects humor into the  so-often-self-important wine industry.
how very open and transparent of them.
next they’ll tell us that rosés aren’t all  sweet fruit punch drinks.
i find it very touching in a snapshot-of-human-life kind of way.
lexicographer's rules - grant barrett is the co-host of a way with words, and his personal blog lights up the cave of language and dictionaries.
is thomas keller the wolfgang puck ofthe noughties?
permalink as melissa caught up on her blog posts, she noticed that her acquaintance novella hasstarted a blog.
in a post at the ethicurean, i noticed a link to an article describing a spanish foie gras that received the coup de coeur award for innovation at the paris international food salon.
it doesn't look too difficult, given the interview and the drawing.
at the very least, they'll believe that hellmann's actually cares about it.
he drips fantastic  quotes: you can't keep up with the shimmering pearls of wisdom that cascade off  of him.
via slashdot labels: on the web posted by derrick.
permalink wednesday, july 04, 2007 self-tending bbq tired of tending your barbecue for hours and hours and hours?
maybe you  should build a self-tending model like theone that nathan moore submitted to  the popular mechanics do-it-yourself rally.
terroir at wine library - i have a love affair with off-the-map grapes, and  so does tom, who uses his blog to write about oddball varieties and the wines  they produce.
if you’re a food blogger and you’d like to contribute a gift, contactthe appropriate regional host.
permalink in mark morford’s latest opinion column for the san francisco chronicle,he rants about the new wendy’s ads — and our culture of gluttony — in his typical stream-of-consciousness style.
a perfectly timed pause, and then, "so you can remind  yourself what real wine tastes like.")
i'm  usually not even hungry come dinnertime; lack of appetite is a standard feature  of computer programmers.
permalink lore sjöberg, who often writes humorous pieces for wired, has put his satirical pen to paper and ponderedthe wine gadgets missing from the world.
steinberger, quoting a researcher, mentions the classic "white wine" vs. "red wine" experiment in which a white wine with red dye results in red wine descriptions.
our friends are often intimidated to have us over.
it won't take long to figure out my favorite item in the guide: my byline as one of the contributors.
some of you may tell me to take a hike (or, you know, some other phrase).
permalink friday, june 08, 2007 cheapest possible ice cream maker can't afford a glace-a-tron 6000?
he salt cures his own meat, experiments with sous vide cooking, and loves good wine.
i don't have a problem with hellmann's as a food product—none apart from a general stance against flavorless, chemical-laden industrial foods, anyway—but is there any food less real than the preservative-laden spread?
permalink the onion did a "man on the street" segment about burger king's small steps toward more humane food.
you can't artificially inseminate them, so a farmer can only sell fresh foie gras during the winter season, when spring's goslings have come of age.
she posted about the last two classes,hungary and croatia, romania, and slovenia.
i'm skeptical of the sousa product; if it were that simple to produce good foie gras without force-feeding, someone would have done it.
i'll bet mcdonald's didn't choose top-notch investigative journalists.
who was the first president to issue a pardon for birds headed to the slaughterhouse?
permalink one of my favorite wine teachers is rebecca chapa.
"do you think they go well with food?"
why use jargon incorrectly when there’s a perfectly good non-jargon term?
no, i just can't make the math work.
that's why he and many of his colleagues in the oregon hills have joined  to make their wine industry the first ‘carbon neutral’ one in the  country.”
in my scheme, not one site scored above 90 points (though there was at least one 89).
if you read wine blogs — i consider owf a food and wine blog, which means it doesn’t quite fit in either category — you should go to his site and nominate some of your favorites.
too bad this didn't exist—or i didn't know about it—when i went to belgium foripp; i'm sure i could've rounded up a few people to try it with me.
permalink why do we clink glasses during a toast?
i'd love to hear what you think of the article.
just as  megaproducers have co-opted the termsorganic and natural and  the bucolic imagery they conjure, hellmann's has tied itself to a term that has  traction among modern shoppers.
computerworldhas an article about the software the government used.
via josh labels: on the web posted by derrick.
i find it very  touching in a snapshot-of-human-life kind of way.
and i were away for the long weekend, and we find ourselves catching up with a few interesting pieces.
our friend lenn, who champions the empire state's wine regions in print and from his bloglenndevours, has started a wine club to showcase interesting new york wines.
no one else has done as much to educate people about the fantastic traditional beers that exist around the world, and his wisdom will be sorely missed.
in today’s episode, she mentioned that mr. manners, one of the other podcasts in the same network, recently talked about dinner parties.
i had to laugh at this quote: "a reader not long ago wrote to me  saying: 'you are the guy who had the courage to say all coffee in north america  is over-roasted,' and i probably did say something nearly like that."
who knew there was so much humor in mary worth, mark trail, and family circus?
too bad the author could only find hosts who care more about the impression they make than the joy of friendship; these people sound dreary.
geese, which pateria de sousa uses, might adapt to "free range foie" more than ducks would.
now you can  listen to short pieces about organic, local, and ethical food while you walk to  work.
permalink the new york times has a close-to-home article about foodie dinner parties.
they offer very basic information about key french regions.
but geese cause headaches for foie gras producers.
few scientists put forth a hypothesis and then publish results that don't support it.
maybe i just don’t shop in the right stores.
he champions biodynamic wines here in the u.s., and his sporadically updated blog injects humor into the so-often-self-important wine industry.
(i love the line, "his and her subscriptions tothe
books, glassware, and, of course, wine all have separate sections.
read this wall street journal article before it disappears behind the paywall next week.
read part 1, part 2, and part 3 of this tale of intrigue and suspense.
(via jason kottke) labels: on the web posted by derrick.
the old-school masculine/feminine language isn't any better, as it lacks the ability to communicate with anyone except wine geeks.
alcohol levels don't matter because you balance the wine?
the eloquent mark morford, columnist for the san francisco chronicle, wrestles with ethical eating in the face of yummy food.
via table of malcontents labels: on the web posted by derrick.
permalink the chronicle's wine section today offers a guide to pairing wine with indian food.
the two of them, on the other hand, are passionate cooks.
here's the link to the mp3.
i know not everyone reads the comments, so i thought i should post her statement, unedited except for html friendliness, here for you all to read.
the wine importer - joe dressner — like terry theise, kermit lynch, and jorge ordonas — is one of those wine importers whose name on a bottle is sufficient reason to buy it.
several years into this, i'll nod politely and groan inside when i decide not to call them on this pap: if it's not relevant to my article, i don't care what lies they want to tell me, but if it's part of the piece i know enough to ask pointed questions.
permalink i've never heard of dallas confectioner noka, but i found this wordy analysis of their high-priced candies to be an amusing read.
what i learned from the awba nominees context matters.
permalink i don't know if chefs forage for seafood outside the world's first undersea restaurant, but wouldn't that be a great show for the tony dining room?
(other than the misuse of the word “compliment” in the original press release?)
labels: culinary explorations, on the web posted by derrick.
permalink the other day, i got a press release that serves as a case study in trying to trick potential customers.
(some of my favorites: "so you weren't making balanced  wines with low alcohol?
… rather than get educated, train staff, and elevate the craft (if not also chuck their superautomatic schaerer espresso machine for something less suited for an assembly line)
that's why he and many of his colleagues in the oregon hills have joined to make their wine industry the first ‘carbon neutral’ one in the country.”
one last thing: i agreed with the idea that foodies who throw fancy dinner parties don't get many invitations in return.
of course, the dye is probably a "natural" dye in the way that soda has "natural" flavors, but i'd argue that dyed fish goes against the spirit of the company's marketing message, if not the letter.
permalink can't afford a glace-a-tron 6000?
blue danube is an importer, wholesaler, and  retailer, so i imagine the bloggers are visiting wineries represented by frank  and his wife zsuzsa.
permalink popular science has a fascinating slideshow of high-tech kitchen gadgets.
i’ll be trying this as soon as i get a moment.
(my co-workers once changed the name of our company's  "barbecue" to cookout, just to avoid hearing me rant about this  topic.
or maybe i’m just yelling “get off the damn lawn!” to the neighborhood kids.
each ofthe six judges ranked five finalists in each category, and then tom combined all those to come up with the top four finalists he presented to readers.
would they have to put little ™ symbols on their return addresses?
keith good pulls key news items off the web and summarizes them in a daily message, providing an ongoing snapshot of the national debate about the state of american farms, which are of course the source of american food.
you can do it with a wide range of liquids, and you don’t need any equipment besides a refrigerator and a freezer.
food in a campaign they callthe  search for real food.
it's  written by j.r. norton, better known to food bloggers as chow's james norton.
he salt cures his own meat, experiments with sous vide cooking, and  loves good wine.
update: erik received a response from whole foods and dissects it on his site.
i buy special ingredients or hand make them because they  taste better, not because i want to pass muster with my guests.
or is it not just cell phones, but the increasingly ubiquitous wifi networks?
we like chatting with our friends over good food and wine, and where better to do so than the comfort of our own home?
permalink what do all those ingredients in red bull do?
and don’t miss their other thanksgiving entries.
but don't count on its glucose to "give you  wings," as the ad says.
he and i had a friendly email exchange about my vinovation piece—we get along well—and he reproduced snippets in the text.
as traditionalists we may have objections to the automatic espresso machines, however, in certain environments, where there are multiple servers, these machines eliminate inconsistencies and improve the execution.
if you don't like strong language, or if you love the mommy bloggers she so often attacks, stay clear of this site.
but jason haas, general manager oftablas creek, makes a more nuanced argument about closures at the winery's blog.
(don't use the search field at the top of the google books page; that's a generic google books search.)
permalink wednesday, june 20, 2007 the subjectiveness of smell slate's mike steinberger continues his look at the physiology of tasting  wine witha probing of the nose.
the people whodo trot out a drool-worthy meal  every night are our friends jen and mike, and she chronicles those dishes at last night's dinner labels: on the web tuesday, may 29, 2007 sushi bar video put a video camera onto the moving conveyor belt of a sushi bar, and you  end up witha portrait of the bar from the sushi's perspective.
(i love the line, "his and her  subscriptions tothe art of eating;" i imagine ed will also laugh to see  his quarterly love letter to the traditional food of the world—often the  product of rural frugality—cast as a must-have bourgeois accessory,  though the demographic is probably accurate.)
some of you may find these little discoveries interesting.
of course,as i've said before, the real secret is to not tell your  dinner guests what went wrong.
via phil labels: on the web, wine wine wine posted by derrick.
are  you out to impress?
permalink if you have never found your way to regina schrambling's gastropoda, you're missing one of the best sources for pointed commentary on the food world, with not-so-occasional swipes at the current presidential administration.
it's written by j.r. norton, better known to food bloggers as chow's james norton.
as a former judge, i can tell you that this is a tough chore for the folks behind the scenes, so give a big thanks tocate and all the judges for their efforts in keeping this annual rite alive.
i have a plastic polyonimo "chocolate bar" puzzle somewhere in my collection of mechanical puzzles, but not one with a famous japanese chocolate maker's name on the label.
i had her a couple of times as i studied wine, and i try to emulate her in my own teaching, especially since one of the classes i teach used to be hers.
permalink tuesday, august 28, 2007 crappyjack while listening to a podcast from the new word open mic event at the  dictionary society of north america meeting, i heard the neologism crappyjack as a synonym for junk food.
at worst, they run the experiment until the results support the hypothesis, and then they publish those results.
it caused quite a stir in our thriving community, even though he really vented about one non-fact that he wanted to clarify, changing a potentially interesting article into a portrait of misinformation.
this is a common subject at the wine writers' symposium, where karen macneil pushes us to write interesting tasting notes.
who knew there was so much humor in mary worth, mark  trail, and family circus?
permalink the sustainable table folks, best known for the meatrix cartoons that educate about industrial agriculture, have started podcasting.
speaking of movable feasts, the rules for calculating easter's date for any given year are deliciously complicated andworth a look.
i’m tempted to launch “snarky vituperatives from  behind the smoky curtain of the web,” which is what his article suggested  we all do, but i guess if he’s a food blogger now, he can do that  himself.
but you'd be right to suspect a wine source who provided awesome deals as long as you met him on street corners.
worth a read, though be sure to check out ric's response in my previous post. labels: on the web posted by derrick.
permalink monday, august 27, 2007 plant vines in sweden!
i work hard for even the tiny glints of color in my text; terry writes in rainbows as if it's the most natural thing to do.
chow provides a primer on the cutting-edge science used in famous kitchens.
"if you make wine in the vineyard, why  don't you use natural yeast?")
labels: on the web sunday, july 01, 2007 in search of real food?
let these  women ask "pointed" questions, and then spin them a comfortable  answer that they'll post for all their readers to see.
my writing elsewhere, on the web posted by derrick.
anyway, it doesn’t sound like we’ll see his face plastered  throughout the frozen food section quite yet.
or recruit a friend who knows something  about mechanics.
my money's on the golden arches.
permalink thursday, august 30, 2007 r.i.p. michael jackson i just noticed a note on a good beer blog that michael jackson, the great  beer writer, has passed away.
nominations close on february 27, so you have time to think about it.
i could probably name a dozen things i wasn't happy about forclotilde's dinner party—from subtle flavor quibbles to components that never made it out of the kitchen—but i don't imagine that any of the guests went home thinking, "well, too bad that didn't work out."
permalink you've heard of alternative closures for bottles?
permalink pairing wine with indian food the chronicle's wine section today offers a guide to pairing wine with  indian food.
labels: on the web tuesday, july 24, 2007 tablas creek talks closures if you've ever heard me talk about screw caps, you know i'm a fan.
via boing boing gadgets labels: gadgets, on the web posted by derrick.
people assume that we eat fancy meals every night, but we don't.
permalink a few years ago, i saw marion nestle speak at cody's books.
harold mcgee's latest new york times article teaches the reader how to do gelatin filtration at home.
i work hard for even the tiny glints of color in my text; terry writes  in rainbows as if it's the most natural thing to do.
the pr person who sent me the link mentioned that they'd be looking for  good "real food" blog posts to highlight.
i've used a number of his books as reference  material for my own research.
i see he’s listed as appellation america’s technology  columnist; it’s nice to see someone who knows all the ins and outs of  wine technology across the state giving them content.
or as the author writes: yes, the man behind america’s most esteemed of restaurants … has proudly announced to his customers that they[sic] will now offer panama esmeralda geisha coffee roasted by the consistently underwhelming equator estate coffees.
heat all to rolling boil.
it didn’t matter if the site’s author was a real-life friend, a social-networking “friend,” or a total stranger.
permalink the humane society of the united states sent me a press release pointing to this new york times article.
wolfgang puck will seek out ethical foods for his restaurants and, most importantly, his sprawling consumer-product line.
anything you snack on that leaves  you with a hollow feeling could be crappyjack, which comes fromcrap plus cracker jack (an american snack food of peanuts and
did i say that out loud?
food snobs and those lucky enough to live in an area where they can buy that level of food.
maybe you should build a self-tending model like theone that nathan moore submitted to the popular mechanics do-it-yourself rally.
permalink monday, july 16, 2007 wired deconstructs red bull what do all those ingredients in red bull do?
but you rarely get to read firsthand accounts of these  wine regions, and frank and zsuzsa are good people worth supporting.
finally, jason haas, of premier paso robles winery tablas creek, gave me a heads-up abouta recent post in which he discusses how the ttb’s decision to stop granting avas has impeded efforts to subdivide paso based on soil and climate.
you add a little gelatin to the liquid,  freeze it, and then thaw it in the refrigerator.
but as bloggers and their readers grouse, i thought i’d offer my perspective as a judge.
you can follow boring twitter feeds like mine, but the 140-character recipes in cookbook’s feed are much more interesting.
it’s a way to create high-flavor consommes without the finicky and  time-consuming stovetop clarification.
technorati tags: blogday2007 labels: not about food, on the web posted by derrick.
i have struggled to make my tasting notes readable, both here and in print, but i grew up in the "list all the aromas" school, and that's a tough habit to break.
if you don't like strong language, or if you love the mommy  bloggers she so often attacks, stay clear of this site.
permalink some of you may recall mario batali’s june article about food bloggers .
but she's also funny, introspective, and thought-provoking.
what do you think about the “shock treatment” of modern male food writers?
i am guilty of many of the sins i noticed on other blogs.
permalink brett mentioned this in the comments to my recap of the pollan-mackey event, but i know not everyone skims the comments.
so i was thrilled when i saw that she’s doing wine education for epicurious.
what do you look like when you eat one of these tart candies?
or require users to only call from a shielded place, such as a car?
avoiding all questionable food would be so much easier if so much of that food didn’t taste so good.
i thought of that book when i read today's news that some scientists believe that cell phone usage has created colony collapse disorder.
photo by john lee of the san francisco chronicle labels:
there's some good information there, and it  reinforces what i already tell my students: you are always right about what you  smell and what you like.
it's not a barbecue when there's a grill; it's a  cookout.
the producer claims he made the foie gras without force-feeding the birds, relying on their tendency to bulk up for migration.
i'll have to think about my real food manifesto a bit; i haven't had several hours on a plane to stew about it.
he puts thought into the environmental aspects of wine production, and he’srecently published a paper about calculating the carbon footprint of wine.
(of course, some might say that about prolog.)
is this the best we can do?
i hadn’t heard the term until i saw the  article, though the technique seems to be all over the avant-garde cooking  scene.
i found a moderate amount of wines from these regions, some good and some less so.
permalink a fellow national puzzlers' league member posed a question to the mailing list: where doesmovable feast come from?
animal activists focus on the force-feeding; take it away, and their argument disappears.
lexicographer's rules - grant barrett is the co-host of a way with words,  and his personal blog lights up the cave of language and dictionaries.
one of those came from mark anisman, who asked how a wine's sweet spot did or did not change in the presence of food.
if i ever upgrade to a wood-fired smoker,  i'm tempted to build one of these.
permalink i know nothing about coffee except that i don’t like it.
that sounds reasonable."
we like  chatting with our friends over good food and wine, and where better to do so  than the comfort of our own home?
even if they don't approve or edit the content—and i assume they do—every visitor to that site will conflate hellmann's and real food.
in the meantime, check outthis satirical flash game about running a mcdonald’s.
scientists around the world are scrambling to find an explanation for ccd, so you can expect to hear any number of theories in the coming months.
as eric notes, terry writes with eloquence and passion about germany, austria, champagne, and the larger world of wine.
hellmann's (or best foods for those on this side of the country) has partnered with yahoo!
because a wide range of farmers rely on bees to pollinate their crops.
permalink ethicurean's bonnie powell has gotten so riled up about the hellman's/yahoo!
he's taking fairly small steps: no pork from producers who keep breeding sows in gestation crates, no eggs from battery chickens, no foie gras, no veal from anyone who uses individual veal crates.
but you rarely get to read firsthand accounts of these wine regions, and frank and zsuzsa are good people worth supporting.
i’m not sure how i would grade owf if i were looking at it through the objective lens i turned on the wba nominees.
this seems like a fine word to use for the low-nutrition, high-calorie junk food that transports high-fructose corn syrup to our bodies, so i post it here for all of you to spread to the masses.
i am not a great spitter, but i can feel steinberger's piece tugging at my obsessive streak.
this is a big tent subject that leaves plenty of room to promote ones preference and appreciate other styles of espresso.
i gave some advice about thisin an earlier post — and i would adda writer’s coach to my list of recommended books — but i think many blogs would benefit from a few hours between writing and posting and one last careful read before the author hits publish.
wired magazine deconstructs a  can's ingredient list and offers real-world (not marketing-hype) information  about the effects of each item.
a flurry of word geeks chimed in, and i guess it's no surprise that wikipediagives the full scoop.
i'll bet mcdonald's didn't choose top-notch  investigative journalists.
few people care that they didn’t get an award they didn’t know about.
(of course i call out specific sites throughout the year as well).
terry and i agree about what makes good wine, but i am more accepting of  vinovation's role within the context of modern wine making.
permalink stilton has launched a new perfume that puts blue cheese in a bottle.
labels: on the web monday, august 20, 2007 city farmer blog as melissa caught up on her blog posts, she noticed that her acquaintance  novella hasstarted a blog.
the writer even knows to warn you away from the term "molecular gastronomy.
at the very least, they'll believe that  hellmann's actually cares about it.
when i read a blog post, i want to get a sense of the person who wrote it.
that’s part of why culture views wine geeks as objects of derision.
the wine importer - joe dressner — like terry theise, kermit lynch,  and jorge ordonas — is one of those wine importers whose name on a bottle  is sufficient reason to buy it.
but he's a major buyer and one of the most famous of the celebrity chefs; it sends a message that the americans who buy his products or eat at his restaurants care about ethically raised food.
too bad wired couldn't find any actual sabering adepts to teach the flamboyant move.
permalink take the owf 5-year anniversary reader survey.
so you can imagine their concern at the news that the ftc will conduct a widespread probe into advertising aimed at children and the healthfulness of those products.
unfortunately, he uses taste as the lead-in to his many useful points.
i get to try out dishes i probably wouldn't  do for melissa and me.
permalink superflavored liquids please take a moment to fill out the owf 5-year anniversary reader  survey.
of course, too much personality can grate on the reader, but too much is better than none at all.
flickr photo and jen’s write-up to read about their versions.
permalink monday, september 17, 2007 sour death balls my friend joe sent around a link to this charming short film from 1993 of  people eating sour death balls.
or so i assume from today's comic strip about molecular gastronomy, complete with gratuitous quote marks.
each month he'll choose two wines, and the green grape wine company will send them to your door.
today, only 20 per cent are.
it doesn't add a lot of new material, but melissa and i were pleased to see mary jo thorensen, co-owner and pastry chef at our belovedjojo, get a prominent mention.
fill clean jars & boil 15m.”
an  entire culture's cuisine to be paired with a single varietal?
it caused quite a stir in our thriving community, even though he really  vented about one non-fact that he wanted to clarify, changing a potentially  interesting article into a portrait of misinformation.
permalink mike steinberger has an interesting piece at slate about how the modern wine tasting note, the "cherry-and-berry" style to use his term, came about.
via play this thing labels: on the web posted by derrick.
the espresso critic's ratings confirm this.
it's a good thing i wasn't drinking my water as i read her commentary on olive garden; i might have shorted out my laptop.
sadly, catherine missed the fourth class (austria's thermenregion, burgenland, and styria), but i'll let you know when she has the fifth and sixth classes up.
but, really, you could order domino's and beer and we'd be happy guests; the point is to hang out and enjoy each other's company.
permalink random web links you've heard of alternative closures for bottles?
i call that a victory.)
" labels: not about food, on the web posted by derrick.
labels: on the web wednesday, september 19, 2007 mark morford on the baconator ads in mark morford’s latest opinion column for the san francisco  chronicle,he rants about the new wendy’s ads — and our culture of  gluttony — in his typical stream-of-consciousness style.
there's some good information there, and it reinforces what i already tell my students: you are always right about what you smell and what you like.
he's a good editor, pushing me in different ways than ed, and he has a colorful writing style that i like.
he looks at the complex array of  factors that have led us to a world where every california wine has more than  14% alcohol.
so i looked in my rss reader for blogs you might like.
finally, i gave 10 points for mechanics: does the blogger know that it’s
marian burros wrote a piece in today's new york timesasking if whole foods is straying from its idealistic roots.
is anyone shocked by a bourdain tirade  anymore?
she noted that food companies were worried about future obesity lawsuits.
permalink in slate today, paul levy articulates the ennui that i feel about macho food writing, which is either derivative of or popularized by anthony bourdain.
modern hosts worry about serving the best food, finding the most local  ingredients, using the best china, hand making everything, receiving judgment  about their food, and so forth.
harold mcgee's latest new york times article teaches the reader how to do  gelatin filtration at home.
imagine my delight, then, to discover chef, a programming language where the instructions read like a recipe.
caramel-coated  popcorn, for those outside of its reach).
it only keeps for a week in the refrigerator, instead of the months and months that hellmann's will hold up, but which expiration date sounds more like real food?
permalink slate's mike steinberger continues his look at the physiology of tasting wine witha probing of the nose.
multiple studies have debunked the so-called sugar  high.
his search  field appears on the right side of the site, and the results appear on the  right side of the google search site.
as a roaster i appreciate anyone who takes an interest in and promotes the crafting of specialty coffee in all its forms, yet, it is startling to read a review disparaging of equator in the context of french laundry espresso for the second time from the same critic.
this might not be a problem, except that diethylene glycol is related to ethylene glycol, an ingredient in antifreeze.
scientists have announced that they've genetically engineered cows to be resistant to mad cow disease, according towired's bodyhack blog.
(diethylene glycol is significantly less toxic.)
i tried to be as objective as one can be in a subjective context.
my name's derrick schneider and i'm just someone who's passionate (and correspondingly opinionated) about food and wine.
it’s time for another article about the effect of global warming on  wine regions.
in response to the espresso critic quoted in this blog, a bit of clarification: 1.
pool resources, they suggest, among other things.
he gives out lots of information and writes with a distinct voice.
christian holidays tied to a particular date, such as a saint's day or christmas, are immovable feasts.
that would be reason enough to listen, but the first 15 minutes focus on vinegar-making,a subject dear to my heart.
it’s listed in their brands, but i’ve never seen it.
if you're not going to fess up, why stress?
he forwardedan amusing post arguing that the french laundry is trying to cover for mediocre coffee by impressing guests with its price.
some of his food suggestions wouldn’t fly in our house — i don’t put cheese on the appetizer platter and melissa prefers to serve french press coffee — but his two posts have good, solid information.
permalink my condolences to the friends, family, and admirers of edward behr, the british war correspondent and prolific writer who passed away yesterday.
permalink a number of you have asked about the survey i ran a while back.
several  years into this, i'll nod politely and groan inside when i decide not to call  them on this pap: if it's not relevant to my article, i don't care what lies  they want to tell me, but if it's part of the piece i know enough to ask  pointed questions.
today is blogday, an annual event where bloggers point the way to five “new” blogs.
permalink tired of tending your barbecue for hours and hours and hours?
wiredoffers a different view: through the lens of a microscope.
investigators are asking diners to bring in both their doggie bags and their stool samples.
brooke mcdonnell, the owner and master roaster for equator coffee, saw my post and commented in defense of her company.
permalink put a video camera onto the moving conveyor belt of a sushi bar, and you end up witha portrait of the bar from the sushi's perspective.
comics curmudgeon - nothing gets me giggling like josh's sarcastic rundown of the morning comics page.
he distances himself from the politicians who have done this recently, saying, "most of the participants we've read about made little or no attempt to actually cook!
just as megaproducers have co-opted the termsorganic and natural and the bucolic imagery they conjure, hellmann's has tied itself to a term that has traction among modern shoppers.
tell everyone to stop using them?
these are two vastly different cooking styles.
permalink while listening to a podcast from the new word open mic event at the dictionary society of north america meeting, i heard the neologism crappyjack as a synonym for junk food.
and if cell phones are the problem, how do we fix that?
(he’s obviously unaware of the devices that purport to do this.)
the gelatin becomes a molecular sieve, and the melting water washes small flavor compounds through the net while the gelatin traps fat and other impurities.
i can’t help but point out that his use of the word “varietal” — to my mind, a misuse — illustratesmy belief that we shouldn’t use the word except in its very specific meaning of a bottle marketed as being made from a single grape variety.
via chow, which asks good questions about how deep the nutritional  analysis will be.
an entire culture's cuisine to be paired with a single varietal?
"your wine won a  gold medal?
but you don’t need to memorize strunk & white to communicate ideas in a useful way.
or maybe i’m just yelling “get off the damn lawn!” to the  neighborhood kids.
permalink healthday has an article about a study of studies.
permalink need a holiday host present or stocking stuffer for the wine lover in your life?
tom wark, whose wine blog fermentations is a popular destination, has helped starta new blog named wine without borders that aims to spread the word about american legislation that prevents a retailer in one state from shipping to a customer in another.
(i went to a recent  tasting of his, and he said upon spying me, "derrick, i was so hoping you  would come."
one last thing: i agreed with the idea that foodies who throw fancy dinner  parties don't get many invitations in return.
skip lombardi wrote to me about his food stamp challenge, in which he and  his significant other are trying to live on food stamp amounts.
labels: miscellaneous, on the web, wine wine wine posted by derrick.
from the article: and it's getting even bigger as the federal trade commission takes the extreme step of issuing compulsory requests for information from 44 food, beverage and quick-service restaurant chains this summer.
and how would it spread to europe from the u.s., given that europe has deeper cell phone penetration than this country?
i can name a few people in the bay area who are experts at the technique, and i've done it once or twice (with mixed results).
labels: on the web wednesday, july 25, 2007 salon interviews ed salon has an interview with ed, my editor at the art of eating.
but that event shaped the modern-day industry: it wiped out the large producers who had relied on voluminous sales and cleared the way for small producers with integrity to enter the spotlight.
but my friend tim does: he owns a popular coffeehouse in san leandro that does its own roasting and blending.
so why up the alcohol?"
go and read what ed, one of our country's best food writers, has to say about the culinary world.
it's not airplane food but a table suspended 50 meters in the air "by a team of professionals."
i want to care enough to click on the “about” link at the top of your page.
but it's worth remembering when you see scientific studies trumpeting the health benefits of your favorite beverage.
magazines and newspapers have hard-working editors who clean up a writer’s prose: we have to rely on ourselves.
at the time, austria followed germany’s lead and made tankfuls of cloying wine.
go and read what one of my role models says about his  influences.
no one would touch the wines for years.
(i went to a recent tasting of his, and he said upon spying me, "derrick, i was so hoping you would come."
i had never read peter barrett's cookblog until he wrote me a couple months  ago, but i feel like i've found a kindred spirit on the other side of the  country.
permalink terry's latest catalogs thanks to a post on eric's blog, i see that terry theise has released his  latest catalogs.
(the fact that i can also enthuse about several japanese artisanal puzzle makers should tell you something about my other hobby.)
it doesn't add a lot of new  material, but melissa and i were pleased to see mary jo thorensen, co-owner and  pastry chef at our belovedjojo, get a prominent mention.
after tom wark announced the finalists for the american wine blog awards, there was a lot of grumbling about who made the cut and who didn’t.
also, thanks to a tip from jack, i submitted my first sipping news piece about an oddly shaped wineglass.
terroir at wine library - i have a love affair with off-the-map grapes, and so does tom, who uses his blog to write about oddball varieties and the wines they produce.
permalink i learned of the farmpolicy.com newsletter from the ethicurean, but i just caught up on the emails the other day.
what do you look like when you eat one of these  tart candies?
or the  neatoice cream making balls that shuna mentioned?
as a side note, look at how moore refers to barbecue as a synonym for slow cooking.
but six moms with who-knows-what backgrounds against a corporate giant with a well-funded and adept marketing group?
i’m tempted to launch “snarky vituperatives from behind the smoky curtain of the web,” which is what his article suggested we all do, but i guess if he’s a food blogger now, he can do that himself.
because if bon appétit is the food media's newsweek and  saveur is the economist, then the art of eating is the new york review of  books: sometimes impenetrable, often spellbinding, and never, ever reductive.
taste the real  thing, and you'll wonder how anyone considers hellmann's to be mayonnaise.
permalink i make some effort to source local ingredients for my cooking, but i gloss over the fact that my favorite wines come from europe.
permalink want a seat at a hot restaurant?
as i say, non-force-fed foie gras is the holy grail, and everyone's looking for it.
they offer  very basic information about key french regions.
they simply went to grocery stores and bought foods that seemed cheap."
i’m sure he’ll show us veterans how it’s done,  assuming he can sustain his blog for long enough.
but regina at gastropoda posted a note that batali has started to blog at serious eats.
for the single subject category, for instance, my “so what?” translated into a simple question: if i wanted to learn about your subject, would your blog be a good way to do it?
permalink thanks to a post on eric's blog, i see that terry theise has released his latest catalogs.
he is alive and, i hope, well.
so i used my web-wide jaunt as a reminder about what i could do to improve this site.
of course i felt the urge to comment.
as bloggers, we don’t have to adhere to a dry, third-person editorial voice.
via bodyhack labels: on the web posted by derrick.
i  saw that letter, because the rest of it fumed about letting me write about  vinovation.
there’s even a  recipe for brown butter consomme to get you started.
permalink a co-worker pointed me toward this slate article about professional wine-spitting technique.
from the article: glucose like most popular soft drinks, red bull is largely sugar water.
"do you  think they go well with food?"
when i started to blog, and even when i started to write professionally, i found it hard to resist marketing spin.
labels: miscellaneous, on the web posted by derrick.
permalink the financial times has an article about the many chez panisse alumni who have opened up their own bay area businesses.
i'd have to smell it to believe it.
bloggers around the world contribute gifts, and everyone buys raffle tickets for the prizes they’d like to win.
the old-school masculine/feminine language isn't any  better, as it lacks the ability to communicate with anyone except wine geeks.
permalink many of you know that i’m a devoted listener of the grammar girl podcast.
as a side note, look at how moore refers to barbecue as a synonym  for slow cooking.
she wields a skewer like an expert swordsperson, and nothing escapes her gaze.
it’s a way to create high-flavor consommes without the finicky and time-consuming stovetop clarification.
i see he’s listed as appellation america’s technology columnist; it’s nice to see someone who knows all the ins and outs of wine technology across the state giving them content.
anisman argues that vinovation works in a vacuum where food is not considered, even though most people drink wine with food.
she often paints in  broad strokes of black and white.
but i have to wonder about this theory, which arises from the fact that bees won't return to the hive when someone's using a cell phone in their vicinity.
writing for rewards and recognition is a sucker’s game.
permalink the caustic voice behind the violent acres blog asserts, with only a few points of empirical evidence, thatprocessed food and special attention turn kids into picky eaters.
turkey on the table, cranberry sauce on the side?
he distances  himself from the politicians who have done this recently, saying, "most of  the participants we've read about made little or no attempt to actually cook!
labels: curmudgeon, help wanted, miscellaneous, on the web posted by derrick.
i was impressed with their commitment to raise the bar on their brewed coffee program.
(i’m less fond of his occasional guest  blogger unclelumpy.)
there are transcripts forpart 1 and part 2 if you don’t want to download the mp3s.
blue danube is an importer, wholesaler, and retailer, so i imagine the bloggers are visiting wineries represented by frank and his wife zsuzsa.
(my original title was “staving off critics and chipping away at costs,” but the silly puns didn’t make it all the way through.)
snopes tracked downthe history of the presidential pardon for turkeys.
permalink i was searching the government printing office’s site while researching an article, and i stumbled across the record forthis 1986 document titled “imported wines : identifying and removing wines contaminated with diethylene glycol.”
bee colonies have been shutting down left and right in unprecedented numbers for no good reason.
so you can imagine how happy i was when erik sherman sent me a link to his post about dyed salmon in whole foods.
or maybe, you know, coca-cola decided that that brand isn’t quite ready for market yet.
i don't envy a national magazine that has to cover local eating, since by definition readers' options will be different in different parts of the country.
go read her manifesto, and post your thoughts.
lenn's palate and interests should produce some great choices.
mcdonald's will give them tours of the hamburger plant and apple orchards.
according to the chicago tribune, mcdonald's will allow six moms to  investigate restaurants in the chain, work in the restaurant, and then blog  about their experiences and their discoveries.
i guess  everyone’s writing about food today, even if they’re not writing  for a food section.
christian holidays that can shift around the calendar, such as easter, are movable feasts.
the  real sauce is a snap to make, especially if you use a food processor.
in fact, they suggest that gewurztraminer isn't actually a good  fit.
but  jason haas, general manager oftablas creek, makes a more nuanced argument about  closures at the winery's blog.
go read her  manifesto, and post your thoughts.
we have the opportunity to transform the way people look at wine.
and its are separate words?
what does your thanksgiving meal look like?
food and wine magazine offers advice on cooking locally, if you live in california or vermont.
the gelatin becomes a  molecular sieve, and the melting water washes small flavor compounds through  the net while the gelatin traps fat and other impurities.
don't worry if it rains; the table has a canopy.
mike steinberger has an interesting piece at slate about how the modern  wine tasting note, the "cherry-and-berry" style to use his term, came  about.
anything you snack on that leaves you with a hollow feeling could be crappyjack, which comes fromcrap plus cracker jack (an american snack food of peanuts and caramel-coated popcorn, for those outside of its reach).
gmo will become the new irradiation, applying a band-aid to a problem instead of dodging the injury in the first place.
i don't have the new versions handy as i write this, but i'd guess it's now inwinning ways volume 4.
i took notes on each blog.
most people in the country don't know or don't remember that non-industrial food tastes better.
in fact, they suggest that gewurztraminer isn't actually a good fit.
i read the front page of entries for each site, and then all the posts from last september — sometimes people beef up their posts at awards time.
instead, the technology magazine consulted one person atk & l wines who has "seen the move in a movie" and then the author links to youtube video demonstrations, which are fun to watch if you've never seen someone saber a bottle before.
be sure to check out the photos.
permalink ever wonder how the cdc traced the sources of the recent e. coli outbreaks—one in spinach and another at taco bell?
it depends on the wine.
find out by watching other people’s expressions.
via ethicurean, whose digest writer and husband were actually at  clotilde's dinner, where i did in fact serve home-cured olives.
"if you make wine in the vineyard, why don't you use natural yeast?")
while pundits quoted in the article say the move could backfire, i think mcdonald's has come up with a brilliant idea.
my friend louisa thomas hargrave, founder of the long island wine industry, gave me a heads-up aboutzabibu, a blog chronicling louise leakey's efforts to make wine in africa.
have i just ensured that i’ll never get a reservation again at the french laundry?
(we supply their drip coffee).
i'll add my voice to the multitude: you should read it.
good writers use any trick with care so that it doesn’t lose its effect.
go and read what one of my role models says about his influences.
when factories have placed uninteresting eggs into every store in the country, who knows about small-farm eggs?
labels: on the web monday, september 10, 2007 whence high alcohol clark smith, the head of vinovation, has an appellation america article  about high alcohol levels in california wine.
permalink tuesday, july 17, 2007 around the web the sustainable table folks, best known for the meatrix cartoons that  educate about industrial agriculture, have started podcasting.
permalink videoblogger ze frank demonstrates how to make a pankegg, "not quite a pancake, not quite an egg."
so i looked in  my rss reader for blogs you might like.
via phil labels: on the web posted by derrick.
the other day, i got a press release that serves as a case study in trying  to trick potential customers.
permalink a decade or more ago, i bought a book called why things bite back, and one of its key points was that technology solves old problems but creates new ones.
he and i had a friendly email exchange about my vinovation  piece—we get along well—and he reproduced snippets in the text.
a temporal acceleration device to age your wine?
they want to stimulate discussion about the benefits of cooking and make constructive suggestions to diners on food stamp budgets.
alcohol levels don't matter because  you balance the wine?
vino, is less willing to brush dust under his carpet.
in the meantime, if you want a break from thanksgiving prep, here are a few good links for your enjoyment.
i didn't see anything in the article  about tours of pork farms for the bacon, slaughterhouses, or shantytowns where  slaughterhouse workers live.
i stress about dinner parties, but only because i want the food to taste  good, not because i'm worried that my friends will think less of me if  something isn't perfect.
he drips fantastic quotes: you can't keep up with the shimmering pearls of wisdom that cascade off of him.
i note that the article doesn't mention how the innovate foie gras tastes next to traditional foie gras.
permalink paul levy opts out of bad-boy writing in slate today, paul levy articulates the ennui that i feel about macho  food writing, which is either derivative of or popularized by anthony bourdain.
as far as i know, every nominated blog was on the spreadsheet, except for the ones written by the judges and the ones that didn’t meet tom’s eligibility requirements.
labels: gadgets, on the web posted by derrick.
my co-worker young sent me a link to these french wine 101 pdfs.
when beverage companies fund a study, the results are more likely to come down in the beverage's favor.
we can wrap news stories in our own opinions and research.
i interpret that phrase to mean “new, perhaps,  to you” rather than “less than one year old.”
permalink catherine's been posting tasting notes from my wines of germany and eastern europe class.
everyone seems so sincere.
(don't use the search field at the top of  the google books page; that's a generic google books search.)
it's not a barbecue when there's a grill; it's a cookout.
if i ever upgrade to a wood-fired smoker, i'm tempted to build one of these.
our dinner  parties sit far to the right on the bell curve, but i don't cook the way i do  to impress people: i cook the way i do because i enjoy it, and i want to do  something special for our friends.
this seems like a fine word to use for the low-nutrition, high-calorie junk  food that transports high-fructose corn syrup to our bodies, so i post it here  for all of you to spread to the masses.
brutal notes, too: i summed up one site with “blah blah blah” and another with “who nominated this site?”
bidding begins on december 10, and i will once again be writing the program that does the raffle drawing, so enter your bribes as soon as possible — uh, which i will ignore, of course.
that’s fine, because i want to preface these comments with one bit of advice:write your blog for yourself.
does s/he demonstrate good knowledge rather than knee-jerk, poorly considered opinions?
i get to try out dishes i probably wouldn't do for melissa and me.
go and read what ed, one of our country's best food writers, has to say  about the culinary world.
according to the chicago tribune, mcdonald's will allow six moms to investigate restaurants in the chain, work in the restaurant, and then blog about their experiences and their discoveries.
in a sort of culinary feedback loop, their versions may inspire me to make it again soon.
is the article sketching a difference between new yorkers and bay areans?
but six moms with  who-knows-what backgrounds against a corporate giant with a well-funded and  adept marketing group?
and do you think  mcdonald's will let these women visit the plants and apple farms unannounced?
permalink please take a moment to fill out the owf 5-year anniversary reader survey.
my judging judges could use any criteria we wanted for deciding our top five.
or the neatoice cream making balls that shuna mentioned?
hellmann's (or best foods for those on this side  of the country) has partnered with yahoo!
he postedhis response, with my original email, on his blog.
permalink menu for hope, the end-of-year food blogger charity drive started by pim, is about to start.
permalink where does wine lingo come from?
if he's got the real thing, he would be the savior of the foie gras industry.
i've used a number of his books as reference material for my own research.
see the tribute to him, and his final article, at the all about beer site labels: announcements, on the web posted by derrick.
"your wine won a gold medal?
if you ask about which wine to pair with indian food, expect a  one-word answer.
i generally side with pollan, but i'm happy to read critical analyses of anyone's work.
permalink many of you know that i'm always happy to bash whole foods.
(note: sorry for those who clicked on the earlier link only to find that it was an old, old blog.
the company that did the work isn't interested in cows destined for beef, and the results are still early, but how long do you think we'll have to wait until the government approves gmo cows as a solution to mad cow disease, itself a by-product of our industrialized agriculture and our demand for cheap meat?
permalink for those who like tongue and cheek, see todd levin's guide to choosing wine .
the goal is to get a "more complete picture" of their kid-marketing practices, especially in the unplumbed arenas of in-store promotions, events, packaging, internet marketing and product placement in video games, movies and tv programs.
permalink it’s time for another article about the effect of global warming on wine regions.
i gave this little weight in the total because most blogs don’t have copy editors.
call it the law of conservation of anxiety.
every now and then, i'm a ;a href="http://www.johnrausch.com/designcompetition/2002/results.htm">puzzle designer.
we should let ourselves shine through a bit more.
when the additive was discovered, it obliterated the austrian wine industry’s international presence.
good writers use any trick with care so that it doesn’t lose its  effect.
she often paints in broad strokes of black and white.
(i’m less fond of his occasional guest blogger unclelumpy.)
here’s just one of her tasty tweets: “jam: boil 3c berries, 2t grated ginger, 1/4c lemon juice.
today's fart party comic offers alternative openers.
pool resources, they suggest,  among other things.
permalink catherine at purple liquid has posted her notes and pictures from my class's third meeting, where we discussed the wines of austria's kremstal, kamptal, and wachau regions.
our friends are often intimidated  to have us over.
labels: curmudgeon, on the web, wine wine wine posted by derrick.
from the article: glucose like most popular soft drinks, red  bull is largely sugar water.
the people whodo trot out a drool-worthy meal every night are our friends jen and mike, and she chronicles those dishes at last night's dinner labels: on the web posted by derrick.
we can take a reader farther than the magazines can.
will they get to sit in on the meetings where the  attendees discuss ways to make advertisements that get children into the  restaurant?
the message i got from her talk was, "they know they're vulnerable to attack."
these are two vastly  different cooking styles.
i replied, “i’m pretty sure that the chroniclewill run a lead story about that topic next week.”
he also alludes to the "label"  experiment mentioned inmindless eating, in which the same wine with a  napa label gets more praise than when it sports a montana label, though in this  case he mentions "vin de table" versus "grand cru" as the  variables.
is thomas keller the  wolfgang puck ofthe noughties?
i agree that this is a failing of wine criticism, but i do wonder how much cellar work—which is how i would label sweet spot evaluation—is done with food in hand.
labels: on the web, wine wine wine posted by derrick.
they also spent time evaluating different roast styles and brewing methods.
those laws give the consumer fewer choices and the retailer less opportunity to make money.
i had never read peter barrett's cookblog until he wrote me a couple months ago, but i feel like i've found a kindred spirit on the other side of the country.
how about his idea for a first-person champagne shooter?
kidsdomain.com gives a guide to making ice cream in plastic bags.
it'll be a fun course, so buy a seat for yourself and 15 of your closest friends.