site was far above the conversion rate of the partners, 58% of converting clicks came from the own site.
the difference between own search engine traffic and outside traffic can be  explained by‘search syndication”.
google’s conversion rate is also  outperforming yahoo, with a 75% of conversions coming from google’s site.
you can follow any responses to this entry through therss 2.0 feed.
on the other  hand the conversion rate on the yahoo!
1,916 partners made up for 55% of yahoo’s paid click income.
obviously google is less dependent from partners than yahoo, but yahoo’s partners convert better than google’s partners, that’s the main conclusion.
59 % by google, the remaining 41% from partners.
site was far above the conversion rate  of the partners, 58% of converting clicks came from the own site.
thus comparing paid click incomes between the own search engine and the  partner pages, yahoo proved to gain more income from partners than from itself.
the difference between own search engine traffic and outside traffic can be explained by‘search syndication”.
seo ltd is a search engine optimisation & pay per click management company based in cheshire 6-8 market place - macclesfield - cheshire - sk10 1ex
as for microsoft, they only have 5 partners and they are actual msn sites so hardly to be called partners in the strict sense.
posted by:  ben ashton in pay per click management efficient frontier released a new survey about how much traffic major  search engines get outside their own search engines.
this entry was posted on wednesday, may 14th, 2008 at 11:53 am and is  filed underpay per click management.
for instance the survey revealed that for yahoo less than half the paid clicks happen on their proper site.
59 % by google, the  remaining 41% from partners.
obviously google is less dependent from partners than yahoo, but  yahoo’s partners convert better than google’s partners,  that’s the main conclusion.
99% of clicks comes from  microsoft site itself, leading to a 100% conversion rate of the microsoft  search engine.
a classic example of search  syndication is the fact that google provides for aol’s search listings or  that similarly ask.com makes use of google for their editorial listings.
on the other hand the conversion rate on the yahoo!
this entry was posted on wednesday, may 14th, 2008 at 11:53 am and is filed underpay per click management.
thus comparing paid click incomes between the own search engine and the partner pages, yahoo proved to gain more income from partners than from itself.
tel: 01625 511 222 copyright © 2006 - 2011 | company reg no. 05990073
google has less partners than yahoo, 463 to be precise, and the majority of their paid click traffic comes from their main site.
google has less partners than yahoo, 463 to be precise, and the majority of  their paid click traffic comes from their main site.
google’s conversion rate is also outperforming yahoo, with a 75% of conversions coming from google’s site.
internet  customers are happier customers » may 14 2008
as for microsoft, they only have 5 partners and they are actual msn sites  so hardly to be called partners in the strict sense.
partners don’t seem to matter.
google, yahoo & partners…who converts better?
a classic example of search syndication is the fact that google provides for aol’s search listings or that similarly ask.com makes use of google for their editorial listings.
for instance the survey  revealed that for yahoo less than half the paid clicks happen on their proper  site.
99% of clicks comes from microsoft site itself, leading to a 100% conversion rate of the microsoft search engine.
although without precise conversion rates  (not provided by efficient) it is hard to make accurate statements both about  google and yahoo.
you can follow any responses to this entry  through therss 2.0 feed.
you can leave a response, or trackback from your own site.
efficient frontier released a new survey about how much traffic major search engines get outside their own search engines.
you can leave a response, or trackback from your own  site.
although without precise conversion rates (not provided by efficient) it is hard to make accurate statements both about google and yahoo.