fumbled the search ball back in the 90s  (to go chasing after content and other seemingly sexier pursuits), it seems  pointless to reiterate how disappointing this is, that the search game was once  yahoo!'s to lose.
i could argue they do it better than anyone else
i am far from an internet neophyte yet i never really started using google over yahoo for search until after the ipo.
posted by: mohit mahendra | january 25, 2006 at 05:59 pm ps...
posted by: nabil | january 24, 2006 at 03:14 pm sue decker is about as smart as they come.
upon further consideration, i think this comment was probably intended to reset wall street's expectations.
still, denial never helps, so hats off.
posted by: patil | january 24, 2006 at 05:35 pm one thing i learned long ago is never assume.
yahoo could probably have made some important technical improvements to our search experience, but instead they have decided to pay attention to only their market share.
now, if the folks up at redmond can only follow this example, perhaps yahoo!
how good a ceo is semel?
i would imagine this would be pretty dicouraging to hear if you are on the yahoo search development team, or really anyone inside yahoo.
because all it took was a second well funded competitor to eat their lunch in a period of a few short years.
but i've see this story before.
i would venture to bet i am not along in this - and yahoo!
it also cant help retaining or attracting top search talent.
the reality is neither likely fit the label.
i'm no rocket scientist
and they'll get a chance to reinvent the search game around social networking.
why should yahoo care so much about automated search as google does?
now, if the folks up at  redmond can only follow this example, perhaps yahoo!
posted by henry blodget on january 24, 2006 at 10:50 am | permalink trackback url for this entry: http://www.typepad.com/services/trackback/6a00d83451656f69e200d83426733a53ef listed below are links to weblogs that reference yahoo waves white flag in search war: »
diller says they fell into this and had a back up plan to sell the business for a song if things didn't work.
in a world where the majority of talent, creativity and revenue lie outside of your company, successful business execs learn to create win-win relationships.
this said, i doubt it's a "trick" to get google to relax so much as an attempt to manage wall street expectations.
bye to yahoo from share in the wealth now that yahoo say the fight is over for them and concedes in a battle that is still young, we at evaal say the battle is ours to finish.
and as neither she nor most of the company's current senior managers were there when yahoo!
that may be the next frontier of search anyways.
what the hell yahoo? from mastermaq's blog one interesting item floating around the blogosphere today is that yahoo has decided to give up in the...
i don't spend any money.
even if yahoo! maintains a strong number two showing, that will only compliment their strong "stickiness" of the other services offered.
i am just not so sure it is great to say it publicly.
all of their products and services could be improved with better search.
we know who won between ai and humans.
we would be very happy to maintain our market share.''
what they get paid for.
so, with many potential pitfalls, a less than proven management team and one significant source of revenue that they aren't all that good at-just better than anyone else-will they be successful?
the street has been all  over yahoo about search for the last year, and the company's repeated promises  to "fix the algorithm" have only created more disappointment.
keep the insights coming.
or are sergey and whatever his name is really brilliant?
posted by: mohit mahendra | january 25, 2006 at 06:00 pm i think this is was a mis understood comment.
"it's not our goal to be no. 1 in internet search.
bye to yahoo from share in the wealth now that  yahoo say the fight is over for them and concedes in a battle that is still  young, we at evaal say the battle is ours to finish.
yesterday semel was a genius now two geeks are the geniuses.
your friends at vertical ads (http://www.verticalads.com) say it is best to be in it to win.
posted by: jd | january 24, 2006 at 04:43 pm yeah, but i'm not exactly sure that it matters that much either.
posted by: nabil | january 24, 2006 at 03:10 pm ps - maybe this is a trick to get google to relax and let its guard down.
posted by: techboard | january 24, 2006 at 04:54 pm i am a little bit puzzled as this is a comment by their cfo and not by their r&d chief, dr. prabhakar raghavn.
the street has been all over yahoo about its relative search incompetence, and yahoo has spent the last year promising to "fix the algorithm" and give google a run for its money.
and while i love the google work environment they have created, i'm not sure the founders are really proven business strategists or executives.
what does yahoo really want to be?
get points for self-assessment and  straightforwardness.
cfo sue decker said in a bloomberg article on jan 23.
as sue decker put it, though, i would be pleased and relieved if they could just maintain market share.
get points for self-assessment and straightforwardness.
pm » dio evil or divine mp3 from phil collins a hot night in  paris mp3 nickelback silver side up mp3 rammstein amerika mp3 ...
now, we look at google.
i was reading an article online somewhere that yahoo! is beating google in the race for social networking & social search.
pm » dio evil or divine mp3 from phil collins a hot night in paris mp3 nickelback silver side up mp3 rammstein amerika mp3 ...
google is on a general sherman scorched earth advance.
go yahoo, work harder and see what new things are around the corner before tossin in the towel!
and if the search market isn't to go the way of online auctions (effective monopoly), that trend has to stop.
and as neither she nor most of the company's current  senior managers were there when yahoo!
did they make the right decisions, have a good business strategy and execute extremely well?
(judging from recent market share losses, though, even this  target may be hard to meet.)
i've spent the majority of my career advising fortune 500 c-level execs on business strategy and transformation.
they are lining up enemies in every facet of business including the customer ranks.
henry blodget | january 24, 2006 at 04:20 pm it's only a matter of time before china funds a search engine company that will reduce google to rubble.
(judging from recent market share losses, though, even this target may be hard to meet.)
yahoo's future lies in a different place, as the no1 destination site /portal.
i believe both yahoo and google have great futures but also different futures.
just a handful of years ago, how many people had heard of google?
"we don't think it's reasonable to assume we're going to gain a lot of share from google," yahoo!
[read more] tracked on february 15, 2006 at 05:51
they are a firm second in the search field, far from an after thought, but can be successful focusing their business elsewhere.
the trouble is, given recent trends, i don't think it's going to be easy for yahoo to even maintain share.
interesting take, but i am not convinced yahoo! should be completely written off in terms of search.
but, i just look at the pictures.
i am a little less sanguine about google, yahoo and the sorts than others.
posted by: rick | january 24, 2006 at 07:04 pm search is responsible for something like 95%+ of google's revenue, and probably not more than 75% of yahoo's revenue.
they are diversified to the point, that they attract visitors with their content, services, and web 2.0 initiatives.
there was literally little, if any, well funded competition.
based on most of the data i've seen, they've lost share every quarter, including this latest one.
the reality of the internet business is that change is at lightning speed.
check out my post and feel free to leave a comment... www.thenewwallstreet.com posted by: the new wall street ceo | january 24, 2006 at 02:02 pm leaving aside the question if the search competition is over (i dont think it is), it is certainly a good thing to be realistic internally and in making strategic decisions at the managment level.
let's see what happens when the next google comes along.
how capable are the google founders?
i don't know much about it, but it could be interesting to see in the long term.
and msn can combine forces and become a stronger no. 2.
that's the most important question i think.
upon further consideration, i think this comment was probably  intended to reset wall street's expectations.
competition is important for yahoo and others, otherwise innovation will end.
i would bet there is some significant damage control going on in the yahoo r&d organization today.
email subscription: « aol: talk about underwhelming | main | google makes
at least they are focused.
what experience do i have making that statement?
while google is good, history has shown that the best stumble.
that's a hell of a lot more than i can say for yahoo.
in any case yahoo lacks innovation.
mack d. male | january 24, 2006 at 05:44 pm i get my country information from http://www.cwik.com while at the library.
"we don't think it's reasonable to assume we're going to gain a lot of  share from google," yahoo!
i do like looking at the hot chicks on their personals.
i suspect the new strategy, with respect to street communications, is to try to set the bar low and then clear it easily.
[read more] tracked on february 15, 2006 at 10:03 pm
and msn can combine forces  and become a stronger no. 2.
so decker was presumably just resetting the bar to a level the company can more  easily clear.
now we are writing off yahoo, microsoft and any potential innovators.
right china decision » yahoo! has apparently read the writing on the search wall that everyone else (except microsoft) has been reading for years: the search game is over and google has won.
[read more] tracked on january 24, 2006 at 05:41 pm »
the street has been all over yahoo about search for the last year, and the company's repeated promises to "fix the algorithm" have only created more disappointment.
cfo sue decker said in a bloomberg article on  jan 23.
so decker was presumably just resetting the bar to a level the company can more easily clear.
posted by henry blodget on january 24, 2006 at 10:50 am | permalink trackback trackback url for this entry: http://www.typepad.com/services/trackback/6a00d83451656f69e200d83426733a53ef listed below are links to weblogs that reference yahoo waves white flag in  search war: »
what the hell yahoo? from mastermaq's blog one interesting  item floating around the blogosphere today is that yahoo has decided to give up  in the...
so are they abandoning search altogether, or just the "search engine" market?
posted by: vertical is in | january 28, 2006 at 11:29 pm
[read more] tracked on january 26, 2006 at 01:14 am » the clash mp3 from the prodigy live robbie williams eternity until sting mp3 if you really love me stevie wonder bry...
personally, i think google search is better, but i can not bring myself to switch my homepage from yahoo!, which i have tried several time, i keep going back time and time again.
henry blodget | january 24, 2006 at 01:51 pm just today i published a yahoo!
oh, and never think the trend will continue.
yahoo was the anti-microsoft force.
i'd argue as business people, they don't seem to be.
we would  be very happy to maintain our market share.''
the comments to this entry are closed.
but they aren't particularly good at it.
there is so much left to be done in search.
besides, yahoo quickly showed that it knows the value of features that bring into the search domain what the artificial intelligence of search algorithms cannot - human intelligence.
« aol: talk about underwhelming | main | google makes
posted by: ryan | january 24, 2006 at 12:47 pm i definitely don't think yahoo! should be written off in search.
company profile on my blog thenewwallstreet.com.
posted by: b | january 24, 2006 at 05:39 pm
[read more] tracked on january 26, 2006 at 01:14 am » the clash mp3 from the prodigy live robbie williams  eternity until sting mp3 if you really love me stevie wonder bry...
i mentioned the fact that they are second in the search industry, and i continued to write that this is not of major concern.
i meant features like content tagging on flickr.
right china  decision » january 24, 2006 yahoo waves white flag in search war yahoo! has apparently read the writing on the search wall that everyone  else (except microsoft) has been reading for years: the search game is over and  google has won.
fumbled the search ball back in the 90s (to go chasing after content and other seemingly sexier pursuits), it seems pointless to reiterate how disappointing this is, that the search game was once yahoo!'s to lose.
so, is diller telling the truth?