to put it simply, google has crawled a bigger chunk of the web to date.
for an interesting look at a direct results comparison, check out this  piece fromsearch engine land.
you can use this tool to compare bing and google results for yourself, but here are the highlights of what people are saying is better.
of  course it’s still early days, and google enjoys the advantage of both  branding and habit, but some user reports are offering bing a glimmer of hope.
at the  moment, the differences in the results the two search engines return is not  that significant, although the presentation and peripherals do differ.
visit seoresults.co.za looking for quotes?
and bring targeted visitors to your site.
for an interesting look at a direct results comparison, check out this piece fromsearch engine land.
and that means a bigger index, which means more pages google can search to find what you’re looking for.
comparing bing and google results
in conclusion it really is too early to tell.
which search engine is better?
google caffeine comparison tool testing google caffeine improved seo results or your money back.
(apart from the reason that more people still use it.)
it really is too early to tell.
according to several sources though, bing may be edging ahead on the  usability score, even if it’s a long way behind on market share.
of course it’s still early days, and google enjoys the advantage of both branding and habit, but some user reports are offering bing a glimmer of hope.
you can use this tool to compare bing and google results for yourself, but  here are the highlights of what people are saying is better.
in favour of google
the relatively recent launch of microsoft’s new search engine bing has also launched a new online debate.
users still rate google higher in niche topical searches, and suggest  google may still be better at understanding the context of your searches, as  well as dealing better with very specific searches.
contact is bing better than google?
since microsoft and yahoo have partnered up, with yahoo’s search now  powered by bing, they’ve cornered a respectable, if still nonthreatening,  share of the search market.
at the moment, the differences in the results the two search engines return is not that significant, although the presentation and peripherals do differ.
there is one important reason that google still swings more weight right now though.
relevant and easy to find related search options.
users still rate google higher in niche topical searches, and suggest google may still be better at understanding the context of your searches, as well as dealing better with very specific searches.
according to several sources though, bing may be edging ahead on the usability score, even if it’s a long way behind on market share.
track phone calls through google analytics.
the relatively recent launch of microsoft’s new search engine bing  has also launched a new online debate.
the jury is still out on which  is the better search, but people are going to a lot of effort to try and figure  it out.
get 3 quotes in a range of industries from 3q. visit 3q.co.za how effective is your advertising?
bing’s market share may grow, but  whether it’s at the cost of google’s remains to be seen.
preview of pages in results.
and  that means a bigger index, which means more pages google can search to find  what you’re looking for.
since microsoft and yahoo have partnered up, with yahoo’s search now powered by bing, they’ve cornered a respectable, if still nonthreatening, share of the search market.
the jury is still out on which is the better search, but people are going to a lot of effort to try and figure it out.
bing’s market share may grow, but whether it’s at the cost of google’s remains to be seen.
visit callmetrics.co.za advertise on google
better options and related searches for product-specific searches.
easy to use advanced search options.
there is one important reason that google still swings more weight right  now though.
visit adwordsagency.co.za