bing we understand the significant investment  required to implement markup, and feel strongly that by partnering with google  and yahoo!
it’s main advantage over microformats is that it is extensible — you can define new semantic vocabulary terms.
the bad news, or at least the less good news, is that it based on microdata and notrdfa.
the san jose mercury news reports: “tuesday, nearly 13 months after yahoo and microsoft announced plans to collaborate on internet search in hopes of challenging google’s market dominance, the two companies announced that the results of all yahoo english language searches made in the united states and canada are coming from microsoft’s bing search engine.
when people talk about  semantic search and the semantic web, they usually mean something that is very  manual, with maps of various associations between words and things like that.
“conventional search engines like google use links to rank and connect different web pages.
see thecall for papers for a list of relevant topics and details on how to submit papers, which are due by 20 january 2010 edit | bookmark@del.icio.us | trackback | comments off pcworld has a story, google vp mayer describes the perfect search engine, with some interesting comments onsemantic search from marissa mayer, google’s vice president of search products & user experience.
i interpret these comments to mean that google’s management still views the concept of semantic search (and the semantic web) as involving better understanding of the intended meaning of text in documents and queries.
that’s why you have all these fuzzy connections, because the brain is constantly processing lots and lots of data all the time.
why not rdfa or microformats?” which is answered thusly: “focusing on microdata was a pragmatic decision.
of course, if everyone hits on this site it may get throttled or blocked by either or both of the search engines.
one way to approach that question is to conduct an experiment in which subjects rank the results returned by several engines without knowing which is which.
the “invisible”  connections between people, places, and events described online.
it seems like google has been working on adding more such patterns, at least for the low hanging fruit.
blindsearch is a simple and neat site that collects ‘objective’ opinions on search quality by showing query results from google, yahoo and bing side by side without identifying which is which and inviting you to select the best.
it will  also help to foster competition with google focused on developing better search  technology.
blindsearch is a simple and neat site that collects ‘objective’  opinions on search quality by showing query results from google, yahoo and bing  side by side without identifying which is which and inviting you to select the  best.
another search revealed when various news outlets predict that facebook will  make its initial public offering.
supporting multiple  syntaxes makes documentation for webmasters more complex and introduces more  overhead in terms of defining new formats.
edit | bookmark@del.icio.us | trackback | 1 comment » bing vs. google, side by side comparison june 1st, 2009, by tim  finin, posted ingoogle, search, security, semantic web, social media tweet microsoft’s new bing search engine is getting a lot of interest.
of course, they know that this will make trying them irresistible to some  of us.
type [barack obama birthday] in the search box and see the answer right at the top of the page.
many applications,  especially search engines, can benefit greatly from direct access to this  structured data.
google and yahoo! have in the past supported both microformats and rdfa for certain schemas and will continue to support these syntaxes for those schemas.
what the difference — i’d say a combination of representational details and centralized (metaweb) vs. distributed (semantic web).
google: “historically, we’ve supported three different  standards for structured data markup: microdata, microformats, and rdfa.
but what about [colleges on the west coast with tuition under $30,000] or [actors over 40 who have won at least one oscar]?
as of this writing there have been 1679 votes for preferred results with  google getting 39%, bing 39% and yahoo: 22%.
we can offer this kind of experience because we understand facts about real people and real events out in the world.
pricing for access to their online services and api starts at $149 a month,  but there is a freefutures email alert service through which you can get the  results of some standing queries on a daily or weekly basis.
guha has a generous comment in his post on the official google blog: “while this collaborative initiative is new, we draw heavily from the decades of work in the database and knowledge representation communities, from projects such as jim gray’s sdss skyserver, cyc and from ongoing efforts such as dbpedia.org and linked data.
the columns are randomised with  every query.
it’s just that for us, we really  prefer to focus on things that can scale.
we think you can get to a much better level of understanding through  pattern-matching data, building large-scale systems.
it seems that semantic search efforts have hit a wall, especially because semantic engines are hard to scale.
guha has a generous comment in his post on the official google blog: “while this collaborative initiative is new, we draw heavily from the  decades of work in the database and knowledge representation communities, from  projects such as jim gray’s sdss skyserver, cyc and from ongoing efforts  such as dbpedia.org and linked data.
i’ve not studied microdata yet, so don’t know how i feel about the expressiveness/simplicity tradeoffs it has made.
also read the section on the  data model for more on rdfa.”
it makes it easy to compare how the two services do on a range of different types of searches.
“in order to get more feedback from developers, we have early  developer channel versions of google chrome for mac os x and linux, but  whatever you do, please don’t download them!
language log  had some morefun exploring healthbase.
in their announcement, google promises to continue to maintain freebase “as a free and open database for the world” and invites other web companies use and contribute to it.
we will continue to expand these categories by listening to feedback from the community and will continue publishing new schemas on a regular basis.
bing we understand the significant investment required to implement markup, and feel strongly that by partnering with google and yahoo!
rdfa is extensible  and very expressive, but the substantial complexity of the language has  contributed to slower adoption.
you  have said in the past that through “brute force” — analyzing  massive amounts of queries and web content — google’s engine can  deliver results that make it seem as if it understood things semantically, when  it really functions using other algorithmic approaches.
i interpret these comments to mean that google’s management still  views the concept of semantic search (and the semantic web) as involving better  understanding of the intended meaning of text in documents and queries.
search engines including bing, google and yahoo! rely on this markup to improve the display of search results, making it easier for people to find the right web pages.
the approach is microdata and the schema.org site documents the schemas that are supported today.
“type in a search query above, hit search then vote for the column which you believe best matches your query.
microformats are concise and easy to  understand, but they don’t offer an open extensibility mechanism and the  reuse of the class tag can cause conflicts with website css.
for example, recognizing that a user’s query “boston to asheville” matches a common pattern “ to “, and she probably is interested in information about how to travel from the first location tot he second.
that’s how the brain works.
that’s not to say that semantic search has no part in search.
this is from theirannouncement on the official google blog: “over time we’ve improved search by deepening our understanding of queries and web pages.
the tool can also track the sentiment of news coverage about companies, classifying it as either good or bad.”
on standard schemas webmasters can be more efficient with the time  they invest… bing accepts a wide variety of markup formats today (open  graph, microformat, etc.) for features like tiles and will continue to do so,  but by standardizing on schema.org we are looking to simplify the markup  choices for webmasters and amplify the value the receive in return.
sometimes the crowds arewise, but often not.
don’t worry if your site has already added  rdfa or microformats currently supported by our enhanced displays program, that  site will still appear with an enhanced display on yahoo! – no changes  required.”
a shorta white paper on temporal analytics has some details on their overall approach.
type [barack obama birthday] in  the search box and see the answer right at the top of the page.
you can also  explore the capabilities they offer through their page on the2010 us senate  races.
update 2:14pm edt 6/7: google: 45%, bing: 32%, yahoo: 22% | 11,130 votes edit | bookmark@del.icio.us | trackback | 1 comment » how’s this for truth in advertising.
(spotted on hacker news)
mayer: we believe in building intelligent systems that learn off of data in an automated way, [and then] tuning and refining them.
and as a treatment itself, healthbase is pretty positive.
we will  also be monitoring the web for rdfa and microformats adoption and if they pick  up, we will look into supporting these syntaxes.
their goal is to help their clients to understand how the relationships between entities and events of interest are changing over time and make predictions about the future.
a shorta white paper on temporal analytics has some details on their overall  approach.
that’s a more robust approach.
their blog reveals some insights on the technology they are using and much  more about the business opportunities they see.
what the difference — i’d  say a combination of representational details and centralized (metaweb) vs.  distributed (semantic web).
see thecall for papers for a list of relevant topics and details on how  to submit papers, which are due by 20 january 2010 edit | bookmark@del.icio.us | trackback | comments off google vp on semantic search and the semantic web november 11th,  2009, by tim finin, posted inai, google, nlp, search, semantic web tweet pcworld has a story, google vp mayer describes the perfect search engine,  with some interesting comments onsemantic search from marissa mayer,  google’s vice president of search products & user experience.
freebase is a system very much in the linked open data spirit, even thought rdf is not its native representation.
on standard schemas webmasters can be more efficient with the time they invest… bing accepts a wide variety of markup formats today (open graph, microformat, etc.)
on adding more semantics to web search.
edit | bookmark@del.icio.us | trackback | 1 comment » microsoft’s new bing search engine is getting a lot of interest.
so, is google magic?
so, in the spirit of sitemaps.org, bing, google and yahoo! have come together to provide a shared collection of schemas that webmasters can use.”
techcrunch first described it as theultimate medical content search engine but then had a follow up article reporting that healthbasethinks you can get rid of jews with alcohol and salt.
google and  yahoo! have in the past supported both microformats and rdfa for certain  schemas and will continue to support these syntaxes for those schemas.
a  search for information about drug company merck, for example, generates a  timeline showing not only recent news on earnings but also when various drug  trials registered with the websiteclinicaltrials.gov will end in coming years.
one way to approach that  question is to conduct an experiment in which subjects rank the results  returned by several engines without knowing which is which.
the special issue will cover interdisciplinary topics between semantic web and search.
for now,  what we’re seeing is that a lot of our methods approximate the  intelligence of semantic search but do it through other means.”
we thought we’d see what healthbase thought of the semantic web and it turns out that if you are experiencing the semantic web as acondition there are several recommendedtreatments.
the scheme.org site has a faq that includes the question “q: why  microdata?
we can offer  this kind of experience because we understand facts about real people and real  events out in the world.
many sites are generated from structured data, which is  often stored in databases.
we’ve decided to focus on just one format for schema.org to create a  simpler story for webmasters and to improve consistency across search engines  relying on the data.”
these are hard questions, and we’ve acquired metaweb because we believe  working together we’ll be able to provide better answers.”
so, in the spirit of sitemaps.org,  bing, google and yahoo! have come together to provide a shared collection of  schemas that webmasters can use.”
the goal of this site is simple, we want to see what happens when you remove the branding from search engines.
“in order to get more feedback from developers, we have early developer channel versions of google chrome for mac os x and linux, but whatever you do, please don’t download them!
markup can also enable new tools and applications that make use of the structure.
remember when we all thought technology stocks real estate was a good thing to invest in?
the google site also allows you to look at the data by state as well.
in their announcement, google promises to continue to maintain freebase  “as a free and open database for the world” and invites other web  companies use and contribute to it.
edit | bookmark@del.icio.us | trackback | 1 comment » google acquires metaweb and freebase july 16th, 2010, by tim finin,  posted indatabase, google, search, semantic web, social media, web tweet google announced today that it has acquired metaweb, the company behind  freebase — a free, semantic database of “over 12 million people,  places, and things in the world.”
that’s why you have all these fuzzy connections, because the brain  is constantly processing lots and lots of data all the time.
these are hard questions, and we’ve acquired metaweb because we believe working together we’ll be able to provide better answers.”
the san jose mercury news reports: “tuesday, nearly 13 months after yahoo and microsoft announced plans  to collaborate on internet search in hopes of challenging google’s market  dominance, the two companies announced that the results of all yahoo english  language searches made in the united states and canada are coming from  microsoft’s bing search engine.
yahoo!:“today’s announcement offers tremendous  opportunity for growth.
freebase is a system very much in the linked open data spirit, even thought  rdf is not its native representation.
you can get the details in a recent article in nature: j. ginsberg, m. mohebbi, r. patel, l. brammer, m. smolinski and l. brilliant,detecting influenza epidemics using search engine query data, nature 457, 1012-1014 (19 february 2009).
we look forward to seeing structured markup continue to grow on the web, powering richer search results and new kinds of applications.”
glenn mcdonaldposts about a nice side-by-side bing vs google comparator tat he  developed.
pricing for access to their online services and api starts at $149 a month, but there is a freefutures email alert service through which you can get the results of some standing queries on a daily or weekly basis.
recorded future uses linguistic algorithms to identify specific types of  events, such as product releases, mergers, or natural disasters, the date when  those events will happen, and related entities such as people, companies, and  countries.
the approach is  microdata and the schema.org site documents the schemas that are supported  today.
we thought we’d see what healthbase thought of the semantic web and  it turns out that if you are experiencing the semantic web as acondition there are several recommendedtreatments.
“rather than attempt to predict how the the races will turn out, we  have drawn from our database the momentum, best characterized as online buzz,  and sentiment, both positive and negative, associated with the coverage of the  29 candidates in 14 interesting races.
i sense form some of these queries that he is probing the systems where an advanced search engine can exploit a little bit of semantic knowledge.
“rather than attempt to predict how the the races will turn out, we have drawn from our database the momentum, best characterized as online buzz, and sentiment, both positive and negative, associated with the coverage of the 29 candidates in 14 interesting races.
i wonder if it is possible  to add an owl-like layer on top ofmicrodata, for example.
this is from theirannouncement on the  official google blog: “over time we’ve improved search by deepening our  understanding of queries and web pages.
and all those things matter in terms of how well semantic search applies.
here’s a video on the concepts behind metaweb which are, of course, also those underlying the semantic web.
or search for [events in san jose] and see a list of specific events and dates.
for features like tiles and will continue to do so, but by standardizing on schema.org we are looking to simplify the markup choices for webmasters and amplify the value the receive in return.
that’s the good news.
how people express themselves changes.
edit | bookmark@del.icio.us | trackback | 4 comments » healthbase semantic search is very positive about the semantic web september 3rd, 2009, by tim finin, posted innlp, search, semantic web tweet healthbase is a ‘semantic search engine’ for healthcare  information that is driven by content mined from “millions of  authoritative health sources” including webmd, wikipedia, pubmed, and  mayo clinic’s health site.
combining the traffic from microsoft and yahoo will give the bing a more  significant share of the web search market.
another search revealed when various news outlets predict that facebook will make its initial public offering.
a couple of years ago or so, some experts were predicting that semantic technology would revolutionize search and blindside google, but that hasn’t happened.
it’s content is available as rdf  and there are many links that bind it to the lod cloud.
that’s why it’s better to have an approach  that’s based on machine learning and that changes, iterates and responds  to the data.
combining the traffic from microsoft and yahoo will give the bing a more significant share of the web search market.
we’ve decided to focus on just one format for schema.org to create a simpler story for webmasters and to improve consistency across search engines relying on the data.”
“conventional search engines like google use links to rank and  connect different web pages.
i’ve not studied microdata yet, so don’t know how i feel about  the expressiveness/simplicity tradeoffs it has made.
click on the flash video below to see the relationship between the flu searches and flu symptoms.
when this data is formatted into html, it becomes very difficult to recover the original structured data.
edit | bookmark@del.icio.us | trackback | 2 comments » yahoo!
and all those things matter in terms of how well  semantic search applies.
we will also be monitoring the web for rdfa and microformats adoption and if they pick up, we will look into supporting these syntaxes.
how’s this for truth in advertising.
you can also explore the capabilities they offer through their page on the2010 us senate races.
recorded future’s software goes a level deeper by analyzing the content of pages to track the “invisible” connections between people, places, and events described online.
so incomplete that,among other things, you won’t yet be able to view youtube videos, change your privacy settings, set your default search provider, or even print.”
of course, such leading indicators may not correlate well if there is a “black swan” flu epidemic or even if there is an unfounded fear of one.
that’s not to say that  semantic search has no part in search.
that’s why it’s better to have an approach that’s based on machine learning and that changes, iterates and responds to the data.
it will also help to foster competition with google focused on developing better search technology.
the chromium blog announces beta versions of google chrome for mac os x and linus, but warns people not to try them in a postdanger: mac and linux builds available.
papers are due 20 january 2010 and decisions will will be sent two months later.
edit | bookmark@del.icio.us | trackback | 2 comments » recorded future is a boston-based startup with backing from google and in-q-tel uses sophisticated linguistic and statistical algorithms to extract time-related information from streams of web data about entities and events.
that makes it possible for me to look for specific  patterns, like product releases expected from apple in the near future, or to  identify when a company plans to invest or expand into india,” says christopher ahlberg, founder of the boston-based firm.
that should help them by providing  both companies with a larger stream of search related data that can be  exploited to improve search relevance, ad placement and trend spotting.
using bing search engine in us and canada august 24th, 2010,  by tim finin, posted ingoogle, search, semantic web, social media tweet microsoft’s bing team announced on their blog that that the bing  search engine is “powering yahoo!’s search results” in the us  and canada for english queries.
markup can also  enable new tools and applications that make use of the structure.
the w3c’sweb of data model is still not on their radar.
edit | bookmark@del.icio.us | trackback | 4 comments » google has had a special “flu trends” site up for many months that provides “up-to-date estimates of flu activity in the united states based on aggregated search queries.”
papers are due 20 january 2010 and decisions will will be sent two months  later.
is that still the preferred approach?
it’s content is available as rdf and there are many links that bind it to the lod cloud.
the web isn’t merely words — it’s information about things in the real world, and understanding the relationships between real-world entities can help us deliver relevant information more quickly.
the  w3c’sweb of data model is still not on their radar.
techcrunch first described it as theultimate  medical content search engine but then had a follow up article reporting that  healthbasethinks you can get rid of jews with alcohol and salt.
unless of course you are a developer or take great pleasure in incomplete, unpredictable, and potentially crashing software.
“this site provides a collection of schemas, i.e., html tags, that webmasters can use to markup their pages in ways recognized by major search providers.
here are the ones that glen said he found useful in developing his initial opinion.
microdata is a relatively new way to  embed semantic information in html and designed to be part of the html5 suite.
edit | bookmark@del.icio.us | trackback | 2 comments » cfp: jws special issue on semantic search november 11th, 2009, by tim  finin, posted inai, search, semantic web tweet yong yu and rudi studer are editing a special issue of the journal of web  semantics on semantic search that will appear in the summer 2010.
recorded future’s software goes a level  deeper by analyzing the content of pages to track
what’s the status of semantic search at google?
it strikes a balance between extensibility  and simplicity, and is most suitable for building the schema.org.
glenn mcdonaldposts about a nice side-by-side bing vs google comparator tat he developed.
we look forward to seeing structured markup continue to grow on the  web, powering richer search results and new kinds of applications.”
is that still the  preferred approach?
it turns out that traditional flu surveillance systems take 1-2 weeks to collect and release surveillance data, but google search queries can be automatically counted very quickly.
it strikes a balance between extensibility and simplicity, and is most suitable for building the schema.org.
… with efforts likerich snippets and thesearch answers feature, we’re just beginning to apply our understanding of the web to make search better.
mayer: the problem is that language changes.
a shared  markup vocabulary makes easier for webmasters to decide on a markup schema and  get the maximum benefit for their efforts.
their blog reveals some insights on the technology they are using and much more about the business opportunities they see.
their goal is to help their clients to understand how the relationships between  entities and events of interest are changing over time and make predictions  about the future.
how differently will you perceive the results?”
the goal of this site is simple, we want to see what happens when you  remove the branding from search engines.
archive for the 'search' category « previous entries microdata chosen over rdfa for semantics by google, bing and yahoo!
… with efforts likerich snippets and  thesearch answers feature, we’re just beginning to apply our  understanding of the web to make search better.
that is done using a constantly updated index of what ahlberg calls “streaming data,” including news articles, filings with government regulators, twitter updates, and transcripts from earnings calls or political and economic speeches.
edit | bookmark@del.icio.us | trackback | 1 comment » yong yu and rudi studer are editing a special issue of the journal of web semantics on semantic search that will appear in the summer 2010.
here’s a video on the concepts behind metaweb which are, of course,  also those underlying the semantic web.
mayer: we believe in building intelligent systems that learn off of data in  an automated way, [and then] tuning and refining them.
if we could come up with a semantic  search solution that could scale, we would be very excited about that.
unless of course you are a  developer or take great pleasure in incomplete, unpredictable, and potentially  crashing software.
here are the ones that glen said he found useful  in developing his initial opinion.
edit | bookmark@del.icio.us | trackback | 2 comments » microsoft’s bing team announced on their blog that that the bing search engine is “powering yahoo!’s search results” in the us and canada for english queries.
it is less expressive than rdfa but also simpler.
rdfa is extensible and very expressive, but the substantial complexity of the language has contributed to slower adoption.
relevant topics include: see the full call for papers for more information.
edit | bookmark@del.icio.us | trackback | comments off who’s got the best basic web search engine?
google: “historically, we’ve supported three different standards for structured data markup: microdata, microformats, and rdfa.
the  special issue will cover interdisciplinary topics between semantic web and  search.
the two companies are still racing to complete the transition of paid search, the text advertising links that run beside and above the standard search results, before the make-or-break holiday period — a much more difficult task.”
a couple of years ago or so, some experts were predicting that  semantic technology would revolutionize search and blindside google, but that  hasn’t happened.
yahoo!:“today’s announcement offers tremendous opportunity for growth.
hopefully, bing will be able to benefit from the good work done at yahoo!
“this site provides a collection of schemas, i.e., html tags, that  webmasters can use to markup their pages in ways recognized by major search  providers.
but what about [colleges on the west coast with  tuition under $30,000] or [actors over 40 who have won at least one oscar]?
supporting multiple syntaxes makes documentation for webmasters more complex and introduces more overhead in terms of defining new formats.
the web isn’t merely words  — it’s information about things in the real world, and  understanding the relationships between real-world entities can help us deliver  relevant information more quickly.
when this data is formatted into html, it becomes  very difficult to recover the original structured data.
i wonder if it is possible to add an owl-like layer on top ofmicrodata, for example.
google, bing and yahoo! are cooperating on an approach to representing structured data in web pages via the launch ofschema.org.
edit | bookmark@del.icio.us | trackback | 3 comments »« previous entries you are currently browsing the archives for the search category.
yahoo also has a post on theiryahoo!
a recent technology review article, see the future with a search, describes  it this way.
we will continue to expand these categories by  listening to feedback from the community and will continue publishing new  schemas on a regular basis.
“type in a search query above, hit search then vote for the column  which you believe best matches your query.
update 2:14pm edt 6/7: google: 45%, bing: 32%, yahoo: 22% | 11,130  votes edit | bookmark@del.icio.us | trackback | 1 comment » google chrome for linux and mac june 5th, 2009, by tim finin, posted  ingoogle, search, web tweet
relevant topics include: information retrieval tasks on the semantic web incentives and interaction paradigms for resource annotation interaction paradigms for semantic search semantic technologies for query interpretation, refinement and routing
don’t worry if your site has already added rdfa or microformats currently supported by our enhanced displays program, that site will still appear with an enhanced display on yahoo! – no changes required.”
clearly the company is  leveraging named entity recognition, event recognition and sentiment analysis.
if we could come up with a semantic search solution that could scale, we would be very excited about that.
that’s how the brain  works.
a shared markup vocabulary makes easier for webmasters to decide on a markup schema and get the maximum benefit for their efforts.
the bad news, or at least the less good news,  is that it based on microdata and notrdfa.
search engines including bing, google and yahoo! rely on this markup  to improve the display of search results, making it easier for people to find  the right web pages.
how differently will you perceive the  results?”
edit | bookmark@del.icio.us | trackback | 2 comments » yong yu and rudi studer are editing a special issue of the journal of web semantics on semantic search that will appear in the summer 2010.
in addition to consolidating the schemas for the vocabularies we already support, there are schemas for more than a hundred newly created categories including movies, music, organizations, tv shows, products, places and more.
as of this writing there have been 1679 votes for preferred results with google getting 39%, bing 39% and yahoo: 22%.
modeling expressive resource descriptions natural language processing and information extractions for the  acquisition of resource descriptions scalable repositories and infrastructures for semantic search crawling, storing and indexing of expressive resource descriptions fusion of semantic search results on the semantic web algorithms for matching expressive queries and resource descriptions algorithms and procedure to deal with vagueness, incompleteness and  inconsistencies in semantic search evaluation methodologies for semantic search standard datasets and benchmarks for semantic search see the full call for papers for more information.
here is how the three companies described the choice.
a recent technology review article, see the future with a search, describes it this way.
the scheme.org site has a faq that includes the question “q: why microdata?
clearly the company is leveraging named entity recognition, event recognition and sentiment analysis.
“so why bother with estimates from aggregated search queries?
in addition to consolidating the schemas for the  vocabularies we already support, there are schemas for more than a hundred  newly created categories including movies, music, organizations, tv shows,  products, places and more.
the chromium blog announces beta  versions of google chrome for mac os x and linus, but warns people not to try  them in a postdanger: mac and linux builds available.
moreover, freebase has a very good wiki-like interface allowing people to upload, extend and edit both its schema and data.
we feel privileged to build upon this  great work.
that is done using a  constantly updated index of what ahlberg calls “streaming data,”  including news articles, filings with government regulators, twitter updates,  and transcripts from earnings calls or political and economic speeches.
edit | bookmark@del.icio.us | trackback | 2 comments » recorded future analyses streaming web data to predict the future october 30th, 2010, by tim finin, posted inai, datamining, google, machine  learning, nlp, search, semantic web, social media tweet recorded future is a boston-based startup with backing from google and  in-q-tel uses sophisticated linguistic and statistical algorithms to extract  time-related information from streams of web data about entities and events.
also read the section on the data model for more on rdfa.”
that should help them by providing both companies with a larger stream of search related data that can be exploited to improve search relevance, ad placement and trend spotting.
language log had some morefun exploring healthbase.
it makes it easy to compare how the two services do on a range of  different types of searches.
if that includes you, go get themac or linux version.
or search for  [events in san jose] and see a list of specific events and dates.
we feel privileged to build upon this great work.
many applications, especially search engines, can benefit greatly from direct access to this structured data.
recorded future uses linguistic algorithms to identify specific types of events, such as product releases, mergers, or natural disasters, the date when those events will happen, and related entities such as people, companies, and countries.
microdata is the most recent well-known standard, created along with html5.
the tool can also track the sentiment of news coverage about  companies, classifying it as either good or bad.”
we think you can get to a much better level of understanding through pattern-matching data, building large-scale systems.
this dashboard is meant to give the view  of a campaign strategist, as it measures how well a campaign has done in  getting the media to speak about the candidate, and whether that coverage has  been positive, in comparison to the opponent.”
edit | bookmark@del.icio.us | trackback | 4 comments » healthbase is a ‘semantic search engine’ for healthcare information that is driven by content mined from “millions of authoritative health sources” including webmd, wikipedia, pubmed, and mayo clinic’s health site.
they believe that this metric “may indicate flu activity up to two weeks ahead of traditional flu surveillance systems”.
the two companies are still racing to  complete the transition of paid search, the text advertising links that run  beside and above the standard search results, before the make-or-break holiday  period — a much more difficult task.”
edit | bookmark@del.icio.us | trackback | comments off blindsearch evaluates google, bing and yahoo search engines june 7th,  2009, by tim finin, posted ingoogle, search, web tweet who’s got the best basic web search engine?
@glen — would you be willing to share your code?
on-page markup enables search engines to understand the information on web pages and provide richer search results in order to make it easier for users to find relevant information on the web.
by making our flu estimates available each day, google flu trends may provide an early-warning system for outbreaks of influenza.”
that makes it possible for me to look for specific patterns, like product releases expected from apple in the near future, or to identify when a company plans to invest or expand into india,” says christopher ahlberg, founder of the boston-based firm.
on-page markup enables search engines to understand the  information on web pages and provide richer search results in order to make it  easier for users to find relevant information on the web.
it seems that semantic search efforts have hit a wall,  especially because semantic engines are hard to scale.
for now, what we’re seeing is that a lot of our methods approximate the intelligence of semantic search but do it through other means.”
edit | bookmark@del.icio.us | trackback | 1 comment » cfp: journal of web semantics issue on semantic search july 17th,  2009, by tim finin, posted insearch, semantic web, social media, web tweet yong yu and rudi studer are editing a special issue of the journal of web  semantics on semantic search that will appear in the summer 2010.
you have said in the past that through “brute force” — analyzing massive amounts of queries and web content — google’s engine can deliver results that make it seem as if it understood things semantically, when it really functions using other algorithmic approaches.
microdata is the most recent well-known  standard, created along with html5.
it’s main advantage  over microformats is that it is extensible — you can define new semantic  vocabulary terms.
the columns are randomised with every query.
how people  express themselves changes.
edit | bookmark@del.icio.us | trackback | 1 comment » google announced today that it has acquired metaweb, the company behind freebase — a free, semantic database of “over 12 million people, places, and things in the world.”
microdata is a relatively new way to embed semantic information in html and designed to be part of the html5 suite.
click on the image below to try it out.
moreover, freebase has  a very good wiki-like interface allowing people to upload, extend and edit both  its schema and data.
this dashboard is meant to give the view of a campaign strategist, as it measures how well a campaign has done in getting the media to speak about the candidate, and whether that coverage has been positive, in comparison to the opponent.”
they have found that how many people search for flu-related topics is a leading indicator for reports on how many people actually have flu symptoms.
it’s just that for us, we really prefer to focus on things that can scale.
the explanation for why changes in in the level of flu searches precedes changes in the level of flu symptoms is more mundane.
many sites are generated from structured data, which is often stored in databases.
microformats are concise and easy to understand, but they don’t offer an open extensibility mechanism and the reuse of the class tag can cause conflicts with website css.
june 2nd, 2011, by tim finin, posted inrdf, search, semantic web, web tweet google, bing and yahoo! are cooperating on an approach to representing  structured data in web pages via the launch ofschema.org.
a search for information about drug company merck, for example, generates a timeline showing not only recent news on earnings but also when various drug trials registered with the websiteclinicaltrials.gov will end in coming years.
when people talk about semantic search and the semantic web, they usually mean something that is very manual, with maps of various associations between words and things like that.
of course, they know that this will make trying them irresistible to some of us.
so incomplete that,among other things, you  won’t yet be able to view youtube videos, change your privacy settings,  set your default search provider, or even print.”