cuil is an old irish word for knowledge and claims to search more pages on the web than anyone else...
with the help of her husband, tom costello, and two other former google engineers - russell power and louis monier, she developed cuil.
one of their major promises is that they don't log a user's search history, which is a concern for some search engine users.
read the post how the press can remain relevant is it any surprise that obama has employed a strategy to cordon journalists that is similar to previous administrations?...
right now, not even giants yahoo!
one of their major promises is that they  don't log a user's search history, which is a concern for some search engine  users.
not only that,  the name recognition of google alone is enough for them to not have to worry.
google has looked pretty much the same for 10 years now," she said,  "and i can guarantee it will look the same a year from now."
terms of use privacy policy trademarks aol a-z help © 2008
through may, google held a 62% share of the u.s. search market with  yahoo at 21% and microsoft at 8.5%, according to comscore inc.
- realclearpolitics - the note - national review - huffington post - donklephant - crooks&liars aol news boom goes the dynamite!
or microsoft can  compete.
the thing is...why fix what isn't broken?
read the post palin seeks $11m book deal, but can she read?
personally, i won't be  switching over anytime soon.
cuil (pronounced "cool") launched yesterday, calling itself "the world's biggest search engine."
this time, she's keeping hertechnology to herself.
and the  results are not nearly as relevant." patterson is not a  disgruntled employee, just someone who didn't like how monotonous google is.
it has a different look  and a different feel, but many people have become so accustomed to google that  it won't matter just how great other search engines are.
but it doesn't appear to  have the depth of results that google has, despite their claims.
- permalink - email this - im this - facebook - digg it!
techcrunch tested out the two contenders to see which one really is  better...so far, anyway.
former google employees launch a cuil search engine megan baker posted: jul 28th 2008
and the results are not nearly as relevant." patterson is not a disgruntled employee, just someone who didn't like how monotonous google is.
they found that "cuil is an excellent search  engine, particularly since it is all of an hour old.
read the post beer in vending machines -- what drinking age?
latest bright hall headlines - the future of student news - why do americans oppose the release of information?
but it doesn't appear to have the depth of results that google has, despite their claims.
read the post be afraid, cheney warns.
- 'waterboarding memo' author speaks to college republicans - why i can't reduce my carbon footprint - supreme court explores high school searches, personal drama latest news » breaking news featured stories - tea parties planned for tax day - brown university faculty votes to hijack history - obama okays purchase of 17,600 american cars - misunderstandings about islam - college seniors leaving jobs to search for employment - aaron schock adds sex appeal to republican party featured galleries » view all » comming soon also on aol get the latest national news, cultural trends, political analysis and more.
- more - stumbleupon - del.icio.us - google - fark - reddit join the discussion new users name e-mail current users e-mail: password remember me e-mail me when someone replies to this comment add your comments: categories - local - media - microtrends on campus - news - odd news - science - the economy - us elections - politics - environment - advise & dissent - recession on campus - small campus, big story - culture - religion - fiction - veepstakes contributors - megan baker - catherine cullen - jj colao - sam guzik - aaron hedge - emily lasky - matt negrin - andrew scurria - joshua sharp most popular stories » more stories »
previous next bishop to boycott obama commencement speech south bend is heating up over the controversy surrounding obama and the local bishop...
patterson left google in 2006 to try to develop a better way of surfing the web.
10:44am filed under:  st. john fisher  college, news, science anna patterson's last search engine innovation was so good, google  bought it from her in 2004.
they believe in analyzing content over analyzing the user, which is a different approach for search engines.
read the post 2009 college grads: we're the lucky ones why there is hope for the graduating class of 2009, and how they can find work in a recession...
u.s. policies on drinking age seem restrictive when examining the rest of the world...
personally, i won't be switching over anytime soon.
cuil is an old irish word for  knowledge and claims to search more pages on the web than anyone else...
google has looked pretty much the same for 10 years now," she said, "and i can guarantee it will look the same a year from now."
or microsoft can compete.
through may, google held a 62% share of the u.s. search market with yahoo at 21% and microsoft at 8.5%, according to comscore inc.
not only that, the name recognition of google alone is enough for them to not have to worry.
one can only imagine what republican rising star sarah palin could possibly write about in her memoirs...
they found that "cuil is an excellent search engine, particularly since it is all of an hour old.
while cuil may actually be a better search engine than google,  will it really matter?
just when you thought the bush-era warnings of armageddon around the corner were over, cheney strikes again...
read the post obama: you wouldn't like me when i'm angry... obama threw down his stick, spat on the floor and growled in the face of cameras -- metaphorically... read the post obama to gop: 'i won, i'm the president'
it has a different look and a different feel, but many people have become so accustomed to google that it won't matter just how great other search engines are.
with the help of her husband, tom costello, and two other former google  engineers - russell power and louis monier, she developed cuil.
all rights reserved urlesque © 2008 aol llc.
they believe in analyzing content over analyzing the user, which is a  different approach for search engines.
news - new york times - wall st. journal - l.a. times - washington post - bbc - drudge report - cnn - fox news - usa today - fp passport - msnbc - newser arts&culture - googletalks - paris review - pitchfork - gorillavsbear - intelligentlife - bookslut - metacritic - culture bully - vulture - radar cool kids - gawker - reddit - kottke - boingboing - metafilter - fimoculous - fark - bestweekever - jossip politics - memeorandum - wonkette - daily dish - politico - washington wire
while cuil may actually be a better search engine than google, will it really matter?
a school - american university - boston university - brown university - marquette university - muskingum college - notre dame - st. john fisher college - towson university - umass - university of pennsylvania - usc - washington university st. john fisher college former google employees launch a cuil search engine megan baker posted: jul 28th 2008 10:44amfiled under: st. john fisher college, news, science anna patterson's last search engine innovation was so good, google bought it from her in 2004.
read the post - +galleries - +rss feeds - +send feedback - +choose
techcrunch tested out the two contenders to see which one really is better...so far, anyway.
patterson left google in 2006 to try to develop a better way of surfing the  web.
cuil (pronounced "cool") launched yesterday, calling itself  "the world's biggest search engine."
"you can't just listen to rush limbaugh and get things done," obama told gop leaders...