google-local gets its listings from a number of sources  including local yellow pages and telephone directories.
both yahoo and google are vying for dominance in the local-search market,  but they face stiff competition from traditional advertising mediums such as  the telephone directories, as well as from smaller search engines such as  ask.
businesses wanting to be listed in google-local are asked to submit their  information via email but before they do, they should check to see if they are  already in the index.
businesses wanting to be listed in google-local are asked to submit their information via email but before they do, they should check to see if they are already in the index.
with both companies looking to expand their revenue sources, local-search is going to be an important issue for search engine marketers and businesses relying on customers referred by search engines.
right now, it appears that submission to the local search database is free so businesses should take a few minutes to get a listing there, especially as it is likely yahoo will eventually charge for inclusion.
google invites businesses to email them  any contact information changes ( local-listings@google.com ) and they will not  only update your listing at google-local, they will also pass the new  information to the source that provided them contact info from your area.
right now, it appears that submission  to the local search database is free so businesses should take a few minutes to  get a listing there, especially as it is likely yahoo will eventually charge  for inclusion.
to the top right of the results is a feature reading "view results on a map" that generates a standard yahoo map with all of the businesses listed in the search displayed in their street locations.
filling in the form takes less than five minutes and can only be  beneficial for business.
local and google local by jim hedger i love new york city.
as one of the most multicultural cities, every cultural group in the world is represented within its 301 square mile area.
google local google's version of local search is quite similar to yahoo's but feels much less cluttered.
more than any other city on the planet, new york is  exciting, expansive and always interesting.
google-local gets its listings from a number of sources including local yellow pages and telephone directories.
while it is still considered a beta-test  version of a local-search tool, it works quite well.
that's what makes them the perfect test market for yahoo's local-search engine.
as it stands today however, yahoo and google are far and away the market leaders in local-search.
to the top right  of the results is a feature reading "view results on a map" that  generates a standard yahoo map with all of the businesses listed in the search  displayed in their street locations.
"there's clear consumer demand that google, yahoo and others are responding to."
they are one of the most jaded and cynical populations and in their east  coast way, take great pride in their worldliness.
listings are added to yahoo's local search by clicking on the link marked,  "add/edit a business".
more than any other city on the planet, new york is exciting, expansive and always interesting.
an example would be the integration of a application like keyhole into local-search.
more search engine tricks articles more by developer shed - google`s panda update at one  year old - why links don`t count
unlike their counterparts in cities like la, rome or tokyo, new  yorkers don't fall for fads, set trends, or get giddy over the next new thing,  ever.
many also feel yahoo has a slight lead on google in the local search arena, though both firms are far ahead of their rivals in terms of usage, coverage and precision.
google's local results do not offer as much information as yahoo's but they do include exact street addresses, and a feature that allows users to get directions from their present location.
in the coming years, search engines are going to present searches with a more personalized and generally a more localized search experience.
google's local results do not offer as much information as yahoo's but they do  include exact street addresses, and a feature that allows users to get  directions from their present location.
both yahoo and google are vying for dominance in the local-search market, but they face stiff competition from traditional advertising mediums such as the telephone directories, as well as from smaller search engines such as ask.
hedger can be reached at jim.hedger@gmail.com more search engine tricks articles more by developer shed
while it sometimes takes a bit of fiddling with address coordinates and zip codes, the feature produces precise directions in text and map form.
jim hedger is a writer, speaker and search engine marketing expert based in  victoria bc.
search  results are displayed in groupings of 10, based primarily on the distance from  the approximate center of the geographic information entered.
new yorkers aren't  just city-folk, they define what is hip in urban living in the early part of  this century.
yahoo plans to install bus stop kiosks  featuring yahoo local-search in order to test user's responses in one of the  densest urban environments in the us.
google-local also displays results in lists of 10, though they use the letters a-j on each page of results.
early next week, nyc transit users will get a first hand glimpse of a clever marketing tactic from yahoo.
the first kiosk will be installed at w.  42nd st and eighth avenue.
google invites businesses to email them any contact information changes ( local-listings@google.com ) and they will not only update your listing at google-local, they will also pass the new information to the source that provided them contact info from your area.
a search for a cybercafe on 8 th avenue in nyc produced a lengthy list of all cybercafes in the five boroughs including the first reference, a short two blocks from the epicenter of my search, w.42nd and 8th.
filling in the form takes less than five minutes and can only be beneficial for business.
with both companies looking to expand their revenue sources,  local-search is going to be an important issue for search engine marketers and  businesses relying on customers referred by search engines.
hedger can be reached at jim.hedger@gmail.com disclaimer:
"it's definitely a growth opportunity," said greg sterling, an  analyst for the kelsey group.
yahoo local yahoo's local search is featured prominently on their standard front page with an easily found tab-link just above the keyword text-box.
the local search page asks users to type the product, service or business they are looking for in one text-box and then type geographic information such as a street name or zip code into a second text-box.
ds cluster 5 - follow our sitemap [-x-]  download a free trial and enter to win free software licenses.
what we see at yahoo and google today is likely going to change and improve over the next few months.
most search analysts feel  the local-search market will become a cornerstone for both yahoo and google to  build on as they move towards producing personalized search results for their  users.
the local search page asks users to type the product, service or  business they are looking for in one text-box and then type geographic  information such as a street name or zip code into a second text-box.
we are not liable for any negative  consequences that may result from implementing any information covered in our  articles or tutorials.
yahoo's local search also includes the yahoo map feature, allowing the searcher to plan easy routes between destinations.
that's what makes them the  perfect test market for yahoo's local-search engine.
as such it  is incumbent upon the reader to employ real-world tactics for security and  implementation of best practices.
while it sometimes takes a bit of  fiddling with address coordinates and zip codes, the feature produces precise  directions in text and map form.
"it's definitely a growth opportunity," said greg sterling, an analyst for the kelsey group.
jim hedger is a writer, speaker and search engine marketing expert based in victoria bc.
no other city has captured the world's imagination or harnessed its wealth to the degree of nyc.
he has worked as an seo for over 5 years and welcomes the opportunity to share his experience through interviews, articles and speaking engagements.
advertisementadvertisement local search: yahoo!
he has worked as an seo for over  5 years and welcomes the opportunity to share his experience through  interviews, articles and speaking engagements.
in the coming years, search engines are going to present searches with a  more personalized and generally a more localized search experience.
no other city has captured the world's imagination or  harnessed its wealth to the degree of nyc.
"there's clear consumer demand that google,  yahoo and others are responding to."
one of the winning  features of this local search engine is the inclusion of a map beside the  displayed results, unlike the map at yahoo which opens on a different page.
an interesting feature  of the culture at google is their willingness to help businesses update any  out-of-date information carried in print directories they get listings from.
what we see  at yahoo and google today is likely going to change and improve over the next  few months.
- submitting urls  to search engines find more search engine tricks articles © 2003-2012 by  developer shed.
yahoo's local search also includes the yahoo map feature, allowing the  searcher to plan easy routes between destinations.
many also feel yahoo has a slight lead on google in the local search  arena, though both firms are far ahead of their rivals in terms of usage,  coverage and precision.
from this point, the only way for a smaller company to effectively enter the market is to present searchers with stronger and better branded technologies.
yahoo local yahoo's local search is featured prominently on their  standard front page with an easily found tab-link just above the keyword  text-box.
for example, if your business moved locations after the most recent telephone  directory was published, the information in that directory would be incorrect,  as would your listing at google-local.
a search for a cybercafe on 8 th avenue in nyc  produced a lengthy list of all cybercafes in the five boroughs including the  first reference, a short two blocks from the epicenter of my search, w.42nd and  8th.
today, about 25% of all search activity is users looking for a specific business or service in their local area.
while it is still considered a beta-test version of a local-search tool, it works quite well.
the content provided in this  article is not warranted or guaranteed by developer shed, inc.
from this point, the only way for  a smaller company to effectively enter the market is to present searchers with  stronger and better branded technologies.
google-local also displays results in lists of  10, though they use the letters a-j on each page of results.
this link opens a fairly straight forward form asking for basic information about a business, including the nature of the submitter's relationship to the business.
instantly - check your code for seo  issues - to be an seo, start with what you know - don`t worry about bad  inbound links - guard your google places listing - overlooked seo tricks - a simple long tail keyword strategy - writing for the long tail -  choosing and using keywords - seven more seo myths that can hurt your sit... - google tips and tricks - will google social search affect your  traffi... - how much money
another feature lets the searcher to  specify the size of the search radius through a drop-down menu measuring in 1,  3, 5, 10, 25, and 50 miles from the center of the search area.
google local google's version of local search is quite similar to  yahoo's but feels much less cluttered.
if this is a hardware review, it is not recommended to  open and/or modify your hardware.
the first kiosk will be installed at w. 42nd st and eighth avenue.
with the paid search sector expected  to grow into an $8billion per year industry, sterling predicts local-search  will comprise about 1/5th of the market by 2008.
this link opens a fairly straight forward form  asking for basic information about a business, including the nature of the  submitter's relationship to the business.
as earth's unofficial capital city  new york is home to many of the world's largest entities, some even bigger than  donald trump's ego.
jim works with a limited group of clients and provides consultancy services to stepforth search engine placement.
new york is also the home of over  8-million people.
one of the winning features of this local search engine is the inclusion of a map beside the displayed results, unlike the map at yahoo which opens on a different page.
today, about 25% of all search  activity is users looking for a specific business or service in their local  area.
most search analysts feel the local-search market will become a cornerstone for both yahoo and google to build on as they move towards producing personalized search results for their users.
as earth's unofficial capital city new york is home to many of the world's largest entities, some even bigger than donald trump's ego.
an interesting feature of the culture at google is their willingness to help businesses update any out-of-date information carried in print directories they get listings from.
the content  provided is intended for entertainment and/or educational purposes in order to  introduce to the reader key ideas, concepts, and/or product reviews.
unlike their counterparts in cities like la, rome or tokyo, new yorkers don't fall for fads, set trends, or get giddy over the next new thing, ever.
jim works with a limited group of clients and provides consultancy  services to stepforth search engine placement.
as one of the most multicultural cities, every cultural group  in the world is represented within its 301 square mile area.
as it stands today however, yahoo and google are far  and away the market leaders in local-search.
they are one of the most jaded and cynical populations and in their east coast way, take great pride in their worldliness.
another feature lets the searcher to specify the size of the search radius through a drop-down menu measuring in 1, 3, 5, 10, 25, and 50 miles from the center of the search area.
can you make with adsense?
listings are added to yahoo's local search by clicking on the link marked, "add/edit a business".
an example would be the integration  of a application like keyhole into local-search.
new york is also the home of over 8-million people.
placement is determined by distance from the center of the geographic search area.
for example, if your business moved locations after the most recent telephone directory was published, the information in that directory would be incorrect, as would your listing at google-local.
new yorkers aren't just city-folk, they define what is hip in urban living in the early part of this century.
placement is  determined by distance from the center of the geographic search area.
early next week, nyc transit users will get a first hand glimpse of a  clever marketing tactic from yahoo.
search results are displayed in groupings of 10, based primarily on the distance from the approximate center of the geographic information entered.
yahoo plans to install bus stop kiosks featuring yahoo local-search in order to test user's responses in one of the densest urban environments in the us.
with the paid search sector expected to grow into an $8billion per year industry, sterling predicts local-search will comprise about 1/5th of the market by 2008.