the competitor  links displayed on each results page lets you search other engines with just a  simple click.
- privacy policy - your ad choices ©2012 about.com.
many other features like masking your google id and streaming search results are also included."
all features are optional and easily configured."
a part of the new york times company.
the privacy settings help to calm the nerves of folks who are uncomfortable with the cohesive behavior profiles that google creates based on your actions."
by category - firefox extensions - google search - web browser security - phishing protection - web browser ad blockers - internet explorer - firefox - add-ons & plug-ins - all about web browsers - web browser security - tips & tricks - beta testing & development - history lesson - web browser glossary web browsers - about.com - computing & technology - web browsers - add-ons & plug-ins - miscellaneous - customizegoogle firefox extension profile - summary of customizegoogle firefox extension - firefox extension or add-on - web browser> - most popular - latest articles - rss - advertise on about.com - our story - news & events - work at about - sitemap - all topics - reprints - help - write for about - user agreement - ethics policy - patent info.
read more... download link: get customizegoogle web browsers forum: discuss customizegoogle in the miscellaneous forum discuss customizegoogle in the privacy & security forum related articles - customizegoogle firefox extension review - review of customizegoogle firefo... - marketwatch firefox add-on profile - summary of marketwatch firefox add-on ... - three common search mistakes - how to get better search results - web search - stepbysteps - google chrome search engine - how to change the default search engine in go... scott orgera web browsers guide - sign up for my newsletter related searches google search results other search engines behavior profiles firefox extension firefox browser mac os x explore web browsers must reads most popular - 2012 readers' choice awards - iphone and ipod touch browsers - the best ipad browsers - top 14 add-ons for file downloading - change themes in google chrome see more about: - change your safari home page - top 7 ipad web browsers - manage your ipad history - google chrome home page - manage your iphone history
guide see more about: - firefox extensions - google search - web browser security - phishing protection - web browser ad blockers categories: miscellaneous privacy & security browsers supported: firefox 1.5 firefox 2.x firefox 3.x operating systems supported: windows mac os x linux about web browsers summary: "customizegoogle is a firefox extension which allows you to modify the appearance of your google search results in several ways, such as adding links to other search engines and suppressing advertisements.
publisher's description: "customizegoogle is a firefox extension that enhance google search results by adding extra information (like links to yahoo, ask.com, msn etc) and removing unwanted information (like ads and spam).
all features are optional  and easily configured.
the many other features available to customize your results, ranging from icon display to hiding paid advertisements, allow you to tweak google to your liking.
customizegoogle review: "customizegoogle is a terrific addition to your firefox browser, as it refines the web's most popular search engine to near perfection.
- about.com - computing & technology - web browsers web browsers search free web browsers newsletter!
the privacy settings help to calm the nerves of folks  who are uncomfortable with the cohesive behavior profiles that google creates  based on your actions."
many other features  like masking your google id and streaming search results are also  included."
linux about web browsers summary: "customizegoogle is a firefox extension which allows you to modify the  appearance of your google search results in several ways, such as adding links  to other search engines and suppressing advertisements.
sign up - web browsers - browser basics - add-ons & extensions - security discuss in my forum customizegoogle (browser add-on) by scott orgera, about.com
publisher's description: "customizegoogle is a firefox extension that enhance google search  results by adding extra information (like links to yahoo, ask.com, msn etc) and  removing unwanted information (like ads and spam).
" customizegoogle review: "customizegoogle is a terrific addition to your firefox browser, as it  refines the web's most popular search engine to near perfection.
the many other features available to customize your results,  ranging from icon display to hiding paid advertisements, allow you to tweak  google to your liking.
the competitor links displayed on each results page lets you search other engines with just a simple click.