as the middleman is cut out of media, google will need to adjust their approach as people seek applications and services more like their previous couch potato experience.
google holds a commanding lead in search queries with 45% share, compared  with 30% for yahoo!
it is far more application and service oriented.
they need to figure out how to monetize that better.
they do a fantastic job of monetizing this  share, much better than yahoo or msn.
google is fantastic at producing products that elicit the praise of the  tech press and blog-jihadists.
we believe strongly in the concept of the disintermediation of media - i.e. eliminating the middleman between the content producer and the consumer.
most people will love the concept of disintermediation as it extends to more and more content, but they won’t like the cold sterile approach google uses.
there is tremendous value in the aggregation yahoo provides today.
google is fantastic at producing products that elicit the praise of the tech press and blog-jihadists.
yahoo is more of an aggregator, with a less minimalist approach than  google.
yahoo has always struck me as being more sticky, and more mainstream.
it also provided  quantitative values that reinforced a suspicion of mine.
most people will love the concept of disintermediation as it extends to  more and more content, but they won’t like the cold sterile approach  google uses.
as the middleman is cut out of media, google will need to adjust  their approach as people seek applications and services more like their  previous couch potato experience.
yahoo has always struck me as  being more sticky, and more mainstream.
but i  think google takes too minimalist an approach to appeal to the mainstream.
unix is a fantastic operating system for the same reasons, but what percentage of the population knows how to usevi?
i like the fact i can get movie reviews next to the showtimes.
i like the fact i  can get movie reviews next to the showtimes.
but the reality is - outside of search and advertising based search, google just doesn’t matter much.
yahoo is more of an aggregator, with a less minimalist approach than google.
unix is a fantastic operating system for the same reasons, but what  percentage of the population knows how to usevi?
but i think google takes too minimalist an approach to appeal to the mainstream.
we believe strongly in the concept of the disintermediation of media - i.e.  eliminating the middleman between the content producer and the consumer.
it appears to me that their solution to everything is search, and that a white box that you type text into is the only thing that should separate a user from content.
this approach works  better for applications like finance, news, maps, and media.
yahoo is what most people i know use.
they do a fantastic job of monetizing this share, much better than yahoo or msn.
this approach works better for applications like finance, news, maps, and media.
it appears to me that their solution to  everything is search, and that a white box that you type text into is the only  thing that should separate a user from content.
but the reality is - outside of search  and advertising based search, google just doesn’t matter much.
outside of search, google doesn't matter august 1, 2006 by: andrew  schmitt  |  includes: goog, yhoo there was an interesting  column in thenew york times last week, outlining the different design  approaches taken by google (goog) and yahoo!
google holds a commanding lead in search queries with 45% share, compared with 30% for yahoo!
they  need to figure out how to monetize that better.