this can not only improve quality of the information, but it also offers an opportunity to improve the discoverability of content.
name (required) mail (will not be published) (required)
mail (will not be published) (required)
yahoo! is offering open search platform, geekily called searchmonkey, which will let third parties modify the search results, except the order of results, to improve the experience.
users can inject more information into the search results using the open search api.
creative commons licensed - © abhijit nadgouda | wordpress |xhtml | css served in 0.356 seconds using 16 queries.
tagged: open search  platform, search, searchmonkey, yahoo say your thought!
it has taken the route of letting others build  on its search results, and i think this is a good approach.
you are invited tosubscribe to the feed to stay updated orcheck out more subscription options.
yahoo is also working towards using the structured data to improve the  search results throughmicrosearch.
closing the tags will be appreciated as this site uses valid xhtml.
coupling this with the open search platform, users can build a search engine which looks deeper into the web.
closing the  tags will be appreciated as this site uses valid xhtml.
if you want to use html you can use these tags: , ,  , , , .
yahoo! is offering  open search platform, geekily called searchmonkey, which will let third parties  modify the search results, except the order of results, to improve the  experience.
opens search yahoo! needs something strong and innovative to come out of the shadow of  google, and recently microsoft.
users can inject more information into the search results using the open  search api.
tagged: open search platform, search, searchmonkey, yahoo say your thought!
by abhijit nadgouda · filed: web ·
i think this is good news, and it is good that it is coming from yahoo, whichdeserves more credit and visibility.
or you can choose to browse by one of the topics.
if this can  better what google offers, open search platform will do a whole lot of good to  yahoo.
skip to navigation | contentifacethoughts feb 26, 2008feb 26, 2008 yahoo!
it has taken the route of letting others build on its search results, and i think this is a good approach.
if this can better what google offers, open search platform will do a whole lot of good to yahoo.
this is the weblog of abhijit nadgouda where he writes down his thoughts on software development and related topics.
this can not only improve quality of the information, but it also  offers an opportunity to improve the discoverability of content.
i think this is good news, and it is  good that it is coming from yahoo, whichdeserves more credit and visibility.
if you want to use html you can use these tags: , , , , , .
coupling this with the open search platform, users can build a search  engine which looks deeper into the web.
needs something strong and innovative to come out of the shadow of google, and recently microsoft.
yahoo is also working towards using the structured data to improve the search results throughmicrosearch.