the listings on its serps are similar to pages found on other top search engines, and are becoming vaguely similar to results found on yahoo, while also listing content found on google.
this same fickleness led to ask losing its audience, as better branded and more  effective search engines came out, but if it consistently started giving  results which can be found nowhere else, and showed itself to be a unique  and user friendly search engine, ask could become bigger than it ever was.
i  have found myself usingexcite, lycos, ask, google, msn and yahoo at the  same time while searching for particular or hard to find material/information.
the  strongest point in its favor currently may be the fickleness of the people who  use search engines; in their efforts to get the results they want, web surfers  use all kinds of search engines, and are also very quick to discard a search  engine if they discover that the results presented to them are irrelevant.
i have found myself usingexcite, lycos, ask, google, msn and yahoo at the same time while searching for particular or hard to find material/information.
next: poor branding >> more search engine news articles more by akinola akintomide please enable javascript to view the comments powered by disqus.
loading asp free topics...
if you are a researcher or a graduate student, or writing a scientific paper, and you want to search online, ask is the search engine of choice.
but its complacency allowed a rash of competition to thrive, and finally google ran away with the market.
now it is repositioning itself to focus and bring its brand out.
the listings on its serps  are similar to pages found on other top search engines, and are becoming  vaguely similar to results found on yahoo, while also listing content found on  google.
blog  comments powered bydisqus search engine news articles - facebook releases negative  report before ipo - google ceos to search asteroids for resources -  what`s behind blekko`s spike in popularity?
google pain - zurker: social network for the 99  percent?
google lists pages based on its pagerank algorithm; it therefore gives you the page with the most related site links as the first listing, which will probably be a business site.
the strongest point in its favor currently may be the fickleness of the people who use search engines; in their efforts to get the results they want, web surfers use all kinds of search engines, and are also very quick to discard a search engine if they discover that the results presented to them are irrelevant.
fault - google plus one rivals facebook like button - google  launches media ads for adwords - targeting keyword domains next on google  age... - google cracking down on fake goods - google panda update slams  content farms - what the jc penney link buying scandal mean... find more search engine news articles seo chat forums
ask also offers unique listings on its blog and feed search, which is its tool for search enthusiasts to explore the blogosphere and not fear being bombarded with low quality blogs.
- yahoo reorganizes in face of  dropping market... - searching privately in a post-scroogle world -  romney feels santorum`s
- sopa and pipa: bad ideas - siri`s search strangeness not  apple`s
is this good or is this bad?
loading forum links...
loading dev shed topics...
many people searching are not really concerned about the uniqueness of the  listings; they want effective serps, and a listing that combines the best of  yahoo and google can be called "the best of both worlds."
now it is repositioning itself to focus and bring its brand out.
many people searching are not really concerned about the uniqueness of the listings; they want effective serps, and a listing that combines the best of yahoo and google can be called "the best of both worlds."
combining its teoma search engine technology, which focuses on social search, with its smart search technology and its expertrank algorithm, ask is currently the best site for experts.
ask was one of the most highly rated search engines in the late nineties.
this same fickleness led to ask losing its audience, as better branded and more effective search engines came out, but if it consistently started giving results which can be found nowhere else, and showed itself to be a unique and user friendly search engine, ask could become bigger than it ever was.
next: poor branding >> more search engine news articles more by akinola akintomide
its branding was great, and it consistently provided relevant results in an  ergonomic (easy to view) format.
if there is anything ask is currently guilty of, it is that it doesn't give results which are unique to its own search engine.
if you are a researcher or a graduate student, or  writing a scientific paper, and you want to search online, ask is the search  engine of choice.
ask  actually gives you the site which other sites that offer the same content link  to, so it gives content rich and highly relevant  sites as its first set  of listings, instead of highly optimized but otherwise content empty business  sites.
combining  its teoma search engine technology, which focuses on social search, with its  smart search technology and its expertrank algorithm, ask is currently the best  site for experts.
ask actually gives you the site which other sites that offer the same content link to, so it gives content rich and highly relevant sites as its first set of listings, instead of highly optimized but otherwise content empty business sites.
ask also offers unique listings on its blog and feed search, which is its  tool for search enthusiasts to explore the blogosphere and not fear being  bombarded with low quality blogs.
loading seo chat topics...
past, present, and future rate this article: poor   best search devarticles is ask the next big search engine? - past, present, and future (page 2 of 4 )
thus ask is unique in that its serps are differently arranged (and force website owners to optimize for it differently).
google lists pages based on its pagerank  algorithm; it therefore gives you the page with the most related site  links as the first listing, which will probably be a business site.
thus ask is unique in that its serps are differently arranged (and  force website owners to optimize for it differently).
but its complacency allowed a rash of  competition to thrive, and finally google ran away with the market.
is ask the next big search engine?
if there is anything ask is currently guilty of, it is that it doesn't give  results which are unique to its own search engine.
loading dev articles topics... ... ... ... advertisementadvertisement ask was one of the most highly rated search engines in the late nineties.
its branding was great, and it consistently provided relevant results in an ergonomic (easy to view) format.