the first post byjajit tells about how he thinks yahoo is the bigger search engine and that it's easier to to optimize for.
some posters around the search engine forums think so.
by jim hedger for the past nine months the financial and internet world has been watching google in anticipation of what could be the largest initial public offering of stock in history.
it seems that yahoo's ranking algorithm values this more than backlinks pointing to your site.
:: news and events: logo evaluation :: meet the members: user: rah view profile rating: site admin joined: 07.01.03 location: lexington, ky website: website advertising newsletters corporate info site map support © 2004 webpronews.
i'm in two  directories and i also pay to sponsor two sites.
i expect this will be corrected, eventually."
this is an easy conclusion to  reach being that yahoo and yahoo-owned search engines are the only ones  currently using paid inclusion.
although, some have speculated that if you're already in yahoo search's index, submitting to their directory can hurt rankings you've established from the free crawl.
and thank you for taking a few minutes to look at my  topic...
" these facts may contribute to some questions  regarding the effectiveness of the yahoo search engine.
according to ihelpyou, "the minute you pay, you will be crawled and indexed."
tell us what you  think!
as for the second post, well pebblez seems to just be  frustrated with all the efforts to optimize for google and not getting any  return.
that and the fact that  yahoo no longer uses google search results.
a webmasterworld member named michael_t has this story to tell about yahoo's impact on his search engine traffic: "i've been paying my yahoo bills since 1999 / 2000.
visit the webproworld forums.
the webpronews network includes webproworld, jayde and webprowire.
google provides about 70% of site trafic while yahoo!
i've called yahoo 4-5 times to run some paid adverts and the guy has not returned my calls.
we get >10,000 hits from googlebot per  month, >10,000 hits from google's mediapartners bot (adsense) per month, but  only about 500 hits from yahoo's slurp bot per month.
yahoo has never had more than 520  pages in its index."
dispute a week of setbacks which included revelations that google illegally issued stock-options in previous years and a multi-million dollar patent settlement with rival yahoo, the ipo appears to be going forward.
google has faced unprecedented observation as  interest in this offering is reminiscent of the hype of the early dot-com era.
, inc. 880 corporate drive, lexington, ky 40503 all rights reserved.
i've called yahoo 4-5 times to run some paid adverts and the guy has not  returned my calls.
ddogg has a biting comment concerning yahoo and  result listings: "yahoo does a terrible job crawling.
compare this to yahoo search, which is only responsible for 10% of  his traffic.
the bidding, which is limited to citizens of the united states, is expected to range between $108 and $135 a share.
only brings in 10%.what do you think of yahoo's search?
pr can be complicated, as well as many  other things invloved with google.
in the google forum there are hundreds of  posts on how to make your site google friendly.
as for the second post, well pebblez seems to just be frustrated with all the efforts to optimize for google and not getting any return.
an email newsletter.
if you peruse the forums, you find that there are many topics discussing the lack of traffic coming from and the difficulty of maintaining consistent rankings in yahoo.
i do get visitors from the yahoo directory listing.
review this site submit  your site organic search engine listings, to some, are the  equivalent of life-blood of many sites.
" these facts may contribute to some questions regarding the effectiveness of the yahoo search engine.
as for  increasing traffic that actually comes from yahoo, optimize your on page  content.
a few posts from webmasterworld would seem to support this theory.
yahoo has never had more than 520 pages in its index."
i have found there to be more sites  listed in yahoo's database than google's and have also found it to be far more  easier to optimize your site for yahoo.
i think that was all google based.
i have found my own site to rank well and very well on yahoo and not even to be found on google.
like rustybrick, he receives most  of his search engine traffic from google.
google recently added 1.1million shares to its offering but has allotted them to yahoo in order to pay for a technology licence to continue displaying adwords in a settlement of a long-standing patent suit.
in fact,rustybrick of seroundtable.com, states that  google "provides over 70%" search engine traffic that his site  receives.
which, of course, is almost in direct contrast  to google's ranking procedures.
if shares trade in that price range, google and its  current shareholders could see as much as $3.4biliion, placing the overall  value of the company around $32billion - $35billion.
they do buy, so the roi is ok.
click to read more optimising for yahoo vs google by pebblez so ill admit it, im a little bit tiffed at google, and im tired of optimizing just for them anyways.
if you are  reading this column and have not been living on mars for the past year, you  know that google is about to go public, and soon.
if you peruse the forums,  you find that there are many topics discussing the lack of traffic coming from  and the difficulty of maintaining consistent rankings in yahoo.
the webpronews b2b search engine.
you get a good title tag, maybe  a few others, create keyword dense pages, then lots of links if you can.
could the problem lie  in the idea that yahoo values site match listings over organic listings?
click to read more optimising for yahoo vs google by pebblez so ill admit it, im a little bit tiffed at google, and im tired of  optimizing just for them anyways.
terms under which this service is provided to you.
although, some have speculated that if  you're already in yahoo search's index, submitting to their directory can hurt  rankings you've established from the free crawl.
how successful has yahoo been for your traffic?
in the google forum there are hundreds of posts on how to make your site google friendly.
however, when you consider michael's post, even sites that he has paid listings for aren't performing well.
discuss this atwebproworld.
as it stands, if ranking in yahoo is important to you, it may be advisable to pay the $300 and join their directory.
read the full article about the author: jim hedger is the seo manager of  stepforth search engine placement inc.
before that, google traffic was only 4 times that of yahoo."
before that, google traffic was only 4 times  that of yahoo."
if shares trade in that price range, google and its current shareholders could see as much as $3.4biliion, placing the overall value of the company around $32billion - $35billion.
if you are reading this column and have not been living on mars for the past year, you know that google is about to go public, and soon.
this may very well be the case, which is  reinforced byihelpyou, the administrator at the ihelpyou forums (oddly enough).
a title from the directory listing seems to  have "priority" over a title spidered from a web page.
they want you to pay  them for inclusion instead."
instead of paying for site match, he suggests paying $299 to be indexed into yahoo's directory.
i expect this  will be corrected, eventually."
you can  optimize and see results with yahoo.
this is an easy conclusion to reach being that yahoo and yahoo-owned search engines are the only ones currently using paid inclusion.
daveatifg, an administrator at wmw says, "there have been reports that a y(ahoo) directory listing can hurt your y(ahoo) free listing.
a webmasterworld member named michael_t has this  story to tell about yahoo's impact on his search engine traffic: "i've been paying my yahoo bills since 1999 / 2000.
that and the fact that yahoo no longer uses google search results.
i get virtually no search traffic from yahoo, where as google sends  me 12,000 per week.
however, yahoo is still including meta descriptions when a search is queried.
the bidding,  which is limited to citizens of the united states, is expected to range between  $108 and $135 a share.
is it the same thing or is there something specific to  yahoo?
:: news and events:
so what can be done to help your site's presence in yahoo's search engine?
they want you to pay them for inclusion instead."
what does yahoo want though?
i think they have serious management problems over  there.
john_caius, a senior member at wmw says: "my site has been online for two years and has had about 3000 pages of content for over six months with plenty of incoming links.
this will ensure your site will be crawled and indexed.
compare this to yahoo search, which is only responsible for 10% of his traffic.
i'm in two directories and i also pay to sponsor two sites.
so what can be done to help your site's presence  in yahoo's search engine?
ddogg has a biting comment concerning yahoo and result listings: "yahoo does a terrible job crawling.
however, when you consider michael's post, even sites that he  has paid listings for aren't performing well.
visit webproworld featured site for review hello and thank you for taking a few minutes to look at my topic... review this site submit your site organic search engine listings, to some, are the equivalent of life-blood of many sites.
you can optimize and see results with yahoo.
this may very well be the case, which is reinforced byihelpyou, the administrator at the ihelpyou forums (oddly enough).
the  site taking registrations and bids is scheduled to close tomorrow at 5:00pm,  eastern daylight time.
click to read more free newsletters part of the of 4 million+ subscribers webpronews webproworld seoarticles send me relevant info on products and services.
i used to get a lot of yahoo search traffic.
we get >10,000 hits from googlebot per month, >10,000 hits from google's mediapartners bot (adsense) per month, but only about 500 hits from yahoo's slurp bot per month.
i have found my own site to  rank well and very well on yahoo and not even to be found on google.
the  webpronews b2b search engine.
i get virtually no search traffic from yahoo, where as google sends me 12,000 per week.
the speculation for the inconsistencies centers on yahoo's spider slurp.
is it the same thing or is there something specific to yahoo?
some  posters around the search engine forums think so.
read ourprivacy policy.
google fully indexed the  content within a few weeks of it going live.
according to ihelpyou, "the minute you pay,  you will be crawled and indexed."
i think they have serious management problems over there.
john_caius, a senior member at wmw says: "my site has been  online for two years and has had about 3000 pages of content for over six  months with plenty of incoming links.
search webpronews: search jayde: jayde.com:
google fully indexed the content within a few weeks of it going live.
by jajit almost  everyone prefers google to yahoo but why?
chris richardson + the  webpronews team articles: 11,305 contributing authors: 2,119 friday, aug 13, 2004 submit article |  contact webpronews |  visit thoughts on google's ipo by jim hedger for the past nine months the  financial and internet world has been watching google in anticipation of what  could be the largest initial public offering of stock in history.
which, of course, is almost in direct contrast to google's ranking procedures.
i have found there to be more sites listed in yahoo's database than google's and have also found it to be far more easier to optimize your site for yahoo.
google provides about 70% of site trafic while  yahoo!
pr can be complicated, as well as many other things invloved with google.
based in victoria, bc, canada, stepforth is the result of the consolidation of braveart website management, promotion experts, and phoenix creative works, and has provided professional search engine placement and management services since 1997.http://www.stepforth.com/ tel - 250-385-1190 toll free - 877-385-5526 fax - 250-385-1198 search webproworld: it seems that i've stumbled across two interesting posts that take a different look at the search engine wars.
could the problem lie in the idea that yahoo values site match listings over organic listings?
however, yahoo is still including meta  descriptions when a search is queried.
instead of paying for site match, he suggests paying $299 to be indexed into  yahoo's directory.
you get a good title tag, maybe a few others, create keyword dense pages, then lots of links if you can.
it seems that yahoo's ranking algorithm values this more than  backlinks pointing to your site.
google recently added  1.1million shares to its offering but has allotted them to yahoo in order to  pay for a technology licence to continue displaying adwords in a settlement of  a long-standing patent suit.
based in victoria, bc, canada, stepforth  is the result of the consolidation of braveart website management, promotion  experts, and phoenix creative works, and has provided professional search  engine placement and management services since 1997.http://www.stepforth.com/  tel - 250-385-1190 toll free - 877-385-5526 fax - 250-385-1198 search webproworld: it seems that i've  stumbled across two interesting posts that take a different look at the search  engine wars.
the main complaint about  slurp is that it doesn't seem to crawl the web nearly as frequently as  google's.
the speculation  for the inconsistencies centers on yahoo's spider slurp.
the stock options are being  offered to investors using an unorthodox method known as a dutch auction.
now i get almost nothing from yahoo search.
and akreider finishes the point with,  "google is about 50 times more traffic than yahoo, ever since yahoo  stopped using google's results.
get listed in yahoo! search.
i don't have very high pr's on my sites but that doesn't matter with yahoo.
thanks for the help everyone ... ...
dispute a week of setbacks which included revelations that google illegally  issued stock-options in previous years and a multi-million dollar patent  settlement with rival yahoo, the ipo appears to be going forward.
the stock options are being offered to investors using an unorthodox method known as a dutch auction.
i don't  have very high pr's on my sites but that doesn't matter with yahoo.
as for increasing traffic that actually comes from yahoo, optimize your on page content.
i do get visitors from the yahoo directory  listing.
chris richardson + the webpronews team articles: 11,305 contributing authors: 2,119 friday, aug 13, 2004 submit article | contact webpronews | visit thoughts on google's ipo
read the full article about the author: jim hedger is the seo manager of stepforth search engine placement inc.
click to  read more free newsletters part of the  of 4 million+ subscribers webpronews webproworld send me  relevant info on products and services.
with google and yahoo driving the search engine industry, gaining respectable organic listings within is considered to be golden.
|| rafael|| google vs yahoo
and akreider finishes the point with, "google is about 50 times more traffic than yahoo, ever since yahoo stopped using google's results.
the first post byjajit tells about how he thinks yahoo is the  bigger search engine and that it's easier to to optimize for.
tell us what you think!
daveatifg, an administrator at  wmw says, "there have been reports that a y(ahoo) directory listing can  hurt your y(ahoo) free listing.
now i get almost nothing  from yahoo search.
discuss  this atwebproworld.
by jajit almost everyone prefers google to yahoo but why?
a title from the directory listing seems to have "priority" over a title spidered from a web page.
google has faced unprecedented observation as interest in this offering is reminiscent of the hype of the early dot-com era.
i used to get a lot of yahoo  search traffic.
visit the  webproworld forums.
the latter costs $100/ mo each.
submit your site is yahoo search as effective?
in fact,rustybrick of seroundtable.com, states that google "provides over 70%" search engine traffic that his site receives.
the site taking registrations and bids is scheduled to close tomorrow at 5:00pm, eastern daylight time.
as it stands, if ranking in  yahoo is important to you, it may be advisable to pay the $300 and join their  directory.
with google and yahoo driving the  search engine industry, gaining respectable organic listings within is  considered to be golden.
like rustybrick, he receives most of his search engine traffic from google.
the main complaint about slurp is that it doesn't seem to crawl the web nearly as frequently as google's.
what  does yahoo want though?
see if you canhelp them out.