popularity: 2% tagged with: google, web analytics, yahoo, yahoo  web analytics leave a reply: 17632 responses http%3a%2f%2fwww.dotcominfoway.com%2fblog%2fyahoo-better-than-google-in-web-analytics-may-be yahoo+better+than+google+in+web+analytics%3f+may+be.2009-12-18+09%3a36%3a18
http://web.analytics.yahoo.com/ywacn.php leave a reply: email address (required, not  published) : website :
yahoo’s acquisition of intex tools (now yahoo analytics) in 2008 is worth a lot more than we think.
an iso 9001:2000 certified multi-disciplined professional it service company, dci is a microsoft gold partner and a proud member of the prestigious nasscom and stpi.
despite all these remarkable features, what keeps google ahead of yahoo is  innovation.
yahoo’s acquisition of  intex tools (now yahoo analytics) in  2008 is worth a lot more than we think.
advanced data visualization: advanced data visualization  allows you to add notes, which result in easier understanding once you export  the report.
yahoo web analysis reportyahoo web analysis report visual demographics report: it lets you to better understand your customers, by aligning under age group.
vs. 5mm for google –  unless an active google adwords campaign is present) access to traffic data – both vendors retain the right to hold and  use your web analytics data, but only yahoo gives the ability to export  unaggregated data.
bookmarked your site and will stop by againmatt | december 20th, 2009 at 9:23 am one important comment on this blog… yahoo!
but yahoo, on the other hand, offers real time data  and flexibility which are widely preferred by publishers.
as of now, it may be better than google analytics if opened to public.
but the greatest drawback with yahoo analytics is, it is available only for yahoo’s small business and advertising customers.
adhering to industry standards, ourbusiness model facilitates enterprises to get the best-of-breed solutions at affordable prices and top-notch quality.
looks like it’s time for google to step aside and give way for yahoo.
behavioral reports will let you know the interest category of your visitor, based on the type of website sections they visit.
yahoo web analysis report visual demographics report: it lets you to better  understand your customers, by aligning under age group.
our privacy policy explains how we use and protect any information that you provide when you use our website.
it has built-in processes to monitor stringent adherence to quality, consistency in performance and accomplishment of project milestones.
viewed in a business perspective, yahoo web analytics has more features than google web analytics.
yahoo web analytics according to an recent research from cms watch, yahoo web analytics  performs well in some key areas than google web analytics.
visitors behavioral report: this would be very useful for publishers to understand the behavior of the visitor.
for more information, ask@dotcominfoway.com tailored to meet international standards and client expectations, our methodology ensures proper risk management, seamless work flow and deadline-oriented development.
advanced data visualization: advanced data visualization allows you to add notes, which result in easier understanding once you export the report.
popularity: 2% hey, good post
this helps you to understand the user’s intentions and expectations on visiting your site.
franklinhttp%3a%2f%2fwww.dotcominfoway.com%2fblog%2f%3fp%3d1763 to “yahoo  better than google in web analytics?
consultant partners can be found here:
this report provides  age group, gender of the customer from everyone of your traffic channels.
but yahoo, on the other hand, offers real time data and flexibility which are widely preferred by publishers.
yahoo web analytics indeed has a few plum features not present in google  analytics.
web analytics is also available to anybody who works through one of  our outstanding consultant partners (consulting fees may vary).
barryjake | december  19th, 2009 at 11:06 am hey, good post and i also like your page layout too.
yahoo web analytics indeed has a few plum features not present in google analytics.
advanced ppc management: now you can track ppc, email and other campaigns under one roof.
recently, google announced api report to their analytics platform, to give a  tough competition to yahoo.
visitors behavioral report: this would be very useful for  publishers to understand the behavior of the visitor.
our well-defined and flexible business model is a result of our deep industry intelligence and vast experience.
this report provides age group, gender of the customer from everyone of your traffic channels.
but it may not be, if yahoo sticks to their small business and advertising publishers circle.
at least yahoo web analytics needs more attention from a world monopolized by  google analytics.
copyright © 2012 dot com infoway | all rights reserved | site map
and i also like your page layout too.
yahoo web analyticsyahoo web analytics according to an recent research from cms watch, yahoo web analytics performs well in some key areas than google web analytics.
yahoo offers some features like flexible dashboard, segmentation tools and campaign management features, which are essential for webmasters.
viewed in a business perspective, yahoo  web analytics has more features than google web analytics.
since it is not opened for public, it is tough for yahoo to give a firm competition to google, the market leader.
salient features of yahoo web analytics real time data collection: yahoo offers real time data, so  that you can know whats happening on your website or blog right now, including  click path and time spent by a particular visitor.
since it is not opened for public, it is tough for yahoo to give a  firm competition to google, the market leader.
bookmarked your site  and will stop by again matt | december 20th, 2009 at 9:23 am one important comment on this blog… yahoo!
export of raw data is pretty simple in yahoo as it comes with common  format to be used with excel.
a few features that make yahoo have an edge over google: despite all these remarkable features, what keeps google ahead of yahoo is innovation.
but it may not be, if yahoo sticks to  their small business and advertising publishers circle.
recently, google announced api report to their analytics platform, to give a tough competition to yahoo.
with high standards of security, we ensure that your valuable data is protected from misuse, loss or any external amendment.
yahoo  has another great feature, which allows you to picture your visitors as people  than clicks.
a few features that  make yahoo have an edge over google: access control options and approach to multi-site analytics monthly page-view limits (200mm for yahoo!
the search giant is indeed pretty clever in competing with yahoo.
home technology yahoo better than  google in web analytics?
consultant partners can be found here: http://web.analytics.yahoo.com/ywacn.php dot com infoway (dci) is a cmmi level 3 multinational information technology company and a leader in custom software development and mobile application development with offices in india, the united states and netherlands.
it also allows you to import ppc campaign  information from yahoo search marketing and also from other search engines to  be integrated with actions and revenue to evaluate the return of investment of  your campaign, keywords and products.
but the greatest  drawback with yahoo analytics is, it is available only for yahoo’s small  business and advertising customers.
posted on friday,  december 18, 2009 by  franklin do you like this story?
behavioral reports will  let you know the interest category of your visitor, based on the type of  website sections they visit.
yahoo offers some  features like flexible dashboard, segmentation tools and campaign management  features, which are essential for webmasters.
salient features of yahoo web analytics real time data collection: yahoo offers real time data, so that you can know whats happening on your website or blog right now, including click path and time spent by a particular visitor.
it also allows you to import ppc campaign information from yahoo search marketing and also from other search engines to be integrated with actions and revenue to evaluate the return of investment of your campaign, keywords and products.
web analytics is also available to anybody who works through one of our outstanding consultant partners (consulting fees may vary).
as of now, it may be better than  google analytics if opened to public.
advanced ppc management: now you can track ppc, email and  other campaigns under one roof.
yahoo has another great feature, which allows you to picture your visitors as people than clicks.
this helps you to understand  the user’s intentions and expectations on visiting your site.
longer historical  availability of reports and data.
yahoo better than google in web analytics?
at least yahoo web analytics needs more attention from a world monopolized by google analytics.
longer historical availability of reports and data.