according to comscore, there was 15.9 billion searches in may in the  us  with google getting 10.2 billion searches (2% increase) while   yahoo got 2.9 billion searches (6% increase) and bing got 1.9 billion (up 6%  increase).
tags: bing optimization, google optimization, search engine marketing, search engine optimization, seo, yahoo optimization name (required) mail (will not be published) (required)
usually if you rank well with google, you should rank well with yahoo and bing, one of the biggest differences being that they give more weight to your domain name than google.
in addition, the yahoo and bing traffic is, in some cases, of a better quality than google’s which, depending on your industry, might result in higher conversion rates.
usually if you rank well with google, you should rank well with yahoo and bing,  one of the biggest differences being that they give more weight to your domain  name than google.
so whether it’s in terms ofseo  or pay per click, it is recommended to develop your efforts toward yahoo and  bing, especially as they are supposed to keep increasing their share of the  search market.
website contest username: to find out how to increase your web site sales, leads and traffic
sign up below to get your free consultation first name:
what does it mean for you?
while google is still in the lead, you might notice that yahoo and  bing are on the rise, benefiting from their recent search alliance.
name (required) mail (will not be published) (required)
so whether it’s in terms ofseo or pay per click, it is recommended to develop your efforts toward yahoo and bing, especially as they are supposed to keep increasing their share of the search market.
... sign up below to get your free consultation contest powered by: contest burner
well that you should stop just focusing on google and make sure your site is optimized for these 2 players as well.
in addition, the yahoo and bing traffic is, in some cases, of  a better quality than google’s which, depending on your industry, might  result in higher conversion rates.
yahoo and bing increase their search market share june 15th, 2010 |  fred thom, ppc expert
website get a free internet marketing consultation to find out how to increase your web site sales, leads and traffic...
according to comscore, there was 15.9 billion searches in may in the us with google getting 10.2 billion searches (2% increase) while yahoo got 2.9 billion searches (6% increase) and bing got 1.9 billion (up 6% increase).
while google is still in the lead, you might notice that yahoo and bing are on the rise, benefiting from their recent search alliance.
well that you should stop just focusing on  google and make sure your site is optimized for these 2 players as well.
bing optimization, google optimization, search engine  marketing, search engine optimization, seo, yahoo optimization leave a reply click here to cancel reply.