articles - searching privately in a  post-scroogle world - romney feels santorum`s
google pain - zurker:  social network for the 99 percent?
blog  comments powered bydisqus search engine news
but again, this is an area where a search  engine, especially one used by as many people as use google, excels.
next: yahoo the follower >> more search engine news articles more by terri wells please enable javascript to view the comments powered by disqus.
sure, there are good, hard (monetary) reasons why yahoo and every other  search engine seems to want to be like google.
it is the first – and often,  last – stop for searchers looking for everything from aardvarks (81,000  hits) to zoomorphs (567 hits), from open source software (more than 41 million  hits) to microsoft-compatible software (about five and a half million hits),  and just about anything else you can imagine.
like  button - google launches media ads for adwords - targeting keyword  domains next on google age... - google cracking down on fake goods -  google panda update slams content farms - what the jc penney link buying  scandal mean... - new panguso search engine launches in china - google  changes algorithm for low quality sit...
in the unhappy ending of the story, the newcomer ends up pushing the older companies out of business.
its particularly interesting to watch the changes that google makes, and see the other search engines institute similar offerings, because in some ways its such a classic example of the kind of thing thats supposed to happen all the time in business.
if you look at the innovations that yahoo and many of the other major search engines have made over the past few months (and maybe longer), it looks as if everyone wants to be like google.
however, that might not be the  best approach.
why does yahoo want to be like google?
sure, there are good, hard (monetary) reasons why yahoo and every other search engine seems to want to be like google.
google  is wildly successful; the award-winning search engine has become synonymous  with searching for something on the internet.
for those who cant remember that far back, google is the newcomer when compared with yahoo.
google is wildly successful; the award-winning search engine has become synonymous with searching for something on the internet.
seo chat is sponsored by:
it is the first and often, last stop for searchers looking for everything from aardvarks (81,000 hits) to zoomorphs (567 hits), from open source software (more than 41 million hits) to microsoft-compatible software (about five and a half million hits), and just about anything else you can imagine.
however, that might not be the best approach.
search engine news rss why does yahoo want to be like google?
who could possibly be a better candidate for a targeted ad than someone who is actively searching for something that relates to what the advertising business can provide?
by: terri wells search for more articles!
in the search engine business, an audience of that size translates to huge revenues.
googles founders had just met at that time, and did not incorporate or become a company until mid-to-late 1998.
like button - google launches media ads for adwords - targeting keyword domains next on google age... - google cracking down on fake goods - google panda update slams content farms - what the jc penney link buying scandal mean... - new panguso search engine launches in china - google changes algorithm for low quality sit... - google`s new chrome extension - update your seo vocabulary find more search engine news articles seo chat forums articles forums all feeds contact us site map request media kit write for us
if you look at the innovations that yahoo and many of the other major  search engines have made over the past few months (and maybe longer), it looks  as if everyone wants to be like google.
observers have stated at least as far back as 1997 that one calendar year equals four years in internet time; you can easily do the math.
yahoo and google start from different points, so molding itself after google may not take yahoo where it really wants to go.
a field opens, one or two companies get there first, then, after they solidify their position, a newcomer gets in, shakes things up, and creates a new de facto standard.
get paid seo weekly newsletter seo tools adsense calculator adsense preview advanced meta-tags alexa rank tool check server headers class c checker code to text ratio cpm calculator domain age check domain typos future pagerank google dance google keywords google search google suggest google vs yahoo indexed pages keyword cloud keyword density keyword difficulty keyword optimizer keyword position keyword typos link popularity link price calculator meta analyzer meta tag generator multiple link popularity page comparison page size pagerank lookup pagerank search robots.txt generator roi calculator s.e. comparison s.e. keyword position site link analyzer spider simulator url redirect check url rewriting privacy policy support © 2003-2012 by developer shed .
yahoo just celebrated its tenth anniversary as a  company this year; it incorporated in march of 1995.
but again, this is an area where a search engine, especially one used by as many people as use google, excels.
yahoo the follower two different interfaces a matter of focus rate this article: poor best search devarticles tools you can use advertisement why does yahoo want to be like google?
- google`s new chrome extension - update your seo vocabulary
- sopa and pipa: bad ideas - siri`s search strangeness not apple`s fault - google plus one rivals facebook
- sopa and pipa: bad ideas - siri`s  search strangeness not apple`s fault - google plus one rivals facebook
in the unhappy ending of  the story, the newcomer ends up pushing the older companies out of business.
ds cluster 8 - follow oursitemap popular seo chat topics - search engine news - search optimization - google optimization - website marketing - web directories - keyword density - class c checker - website promotion all tutorials & tools - choosing keywords - link trading - bing optimization - search engine spiders - website submission - yahoo optimization - link popularity - view all seo tools [-x-] download a free trial and enter to win free software licenses.
actually,  that’s an oversimplification; size isn’t everything when you can  target your ads so that they are seen only by the people who are most likely to  be interested in what you offer.
yahoo and google start from different points, so molding itself  after google may not take yahoo where it really wants to go.
next: yahoo the follower >> more search engine news articles please enable javascript to view the comments powered by disqus.
i hardly need to tell you that most search engines, including google and yahoo, make their money from advertising.
actually, thats an oversimplification; size isnt everything when you can target your ads so that they are seen only by the people who are most likely to be interested in what you offer.
- seo chat - dev shed loading dev shed topics... - asp free loading asp free topics... - devarticles loading dev articles topics... - the devshed network - dev hardware ... - scripts ... - tutorialized ... - web hosters - codewalkers - devshed tools - login/sign-up - username - password - - sign up!
observers have stated at least as far back as 1997  that one calendar year equals four years in internet time; you can easily do  the math.
find more search engine news articles seo chat forums
and really, who can blame them?
a field opens, one or two companies get  there first, then, after they solidify their position, a newcomer gets in,  shakes things up, and creates a new de facto standard.
those who sell to advertisers typically follow a rule of thumb: the larger the audience an advertiser can reach, the more likely he is to part with a large sum of money.
for those who can’t remember that far back, google is the newcomer  when compared with yahoo.
it’s particularly interesting to watch the changes that google makes,  and see the other search engines institute similar offerings, because in some  ways it’s such a classic example of the kind of thing that’s supposed  to happen all the time in business.
yes, this is only three years of difference, but we are  talking about internet time.
seo chat search engine news search engine advice & tutorials home search engine news why does yahoo want to be like google?
yahoo just celebrated its tenth anniversary as a company this year; it incorporated in march of 1995.
those who sell to advertisers  typically follow a rule of thumb: the larger the audience an advertiser can  reach, the more likely he is to part with a large sum of money.
in the search engine business, an audience of that size translates to huge  revenues.
i hardly need to tell you that most search engines, including google  and yahoo, make their money from advertising.
blog comments powered bydisqus more by terri wells search engine news articles - searching privately in a post-scroogle world - romney feels santorum`s google pain - zurker: social network for the 99 percent?
who could  possibly be a better candidate for a targeted ad than someone who is actively  searching for something that relates to what the advertising business can  provide?
disclaimer author terms rating: / 14 2005-04-27 table of contents: why does yahoo want to be like google?
yes, this is only three years of difference, but we are talking about internet time.
google’s founders had  just met at that time, and did not incorporate or become a company until  mid-to-late 1998.