surprise, surprise, when the plans were reviewed by the concept engineer, they were rejected!
this is the sixth in a series of short collaborative posts about russ keeler.
on this page hvac and plumbing expert witness, russ keeler -- how can ice be used to create more efficient air conditioning systems while building smaller chiller plants? hvac and plumbing expert witness, russ keeler -- how to keep cool, increase ceiling height, and save money, without increasing the floor-to-floor height of your building hvac and plumbing expert witness, russ keeler --
a better blogsite russ keeler specializes in  forensic investigations for hvac and plumbing cases, serving attorneys  nationwide as a plumbing and hvac expert witness.
http://chasonenergy.com/ moisture control in buildings, chapter 10,  heating and cooling equipment, by russell m. keeler.
smaller ducts can increase the ceiling height without increasing the floor-to-floor height of the building."
today's question, new windows, or a new furnace?
what if your consulting engineer takes liberties interpreting design/build specifications, and those liberties cost you a fortune?
what if your water is blue, caustic & toxic?
the engineer developed bid documents, which the contractor then used to  prepare his bid.
303-670-4430 by john gaudio, how can you use ice like a battery, for more efficient air  conditioning?
you call russ keeler.
today's question, new windows, or a  new furnace?
http://hvacexpertwitness.com topic tags: floor-to-floor height of building, hvac expert witness, hvac forensic investigation, hvac litigation support, john gaudio, low temperature air distribution, plumbing expert witness, plumbing fornsic investigation, plumbing litigation support, russ keeler knows by johngaudio | comment (1) | ↑top | link to this january 31, 2010 hvac and plumbing expert witness, russ keeler --
this is the fourth in a series of short collaborative  posts about russ keeler.
the savings are not only in duct and fan size, but also in fan room requirements.
a better blogsite russ keeler specializes in  forensic investigations for hvac and plumbing cases, serving attorney's  nationwide as a plumbing and hvac expert witness.
today's question, "how can you save  space and money with low temperature air distribution?" russ keeler  is an hvac and plumbing expert witness with over 30 years experience.
this results in naturally high placement on google, yahoo, and other search engines.
russ keeler, answers the tough questions.
the documents created by the engineer were used by the contractor to prepare a bid (in this case a casino).
please visit the links below for more information.
learn about plumbing, hvac, and the technical side of hvac and  plumbing litigation.
http://abetterblogsite.com/public/item/244376 hvac & plumbing expert witness, russ keeler --
" have a question for russ?  please post a comment below to ask  russ keeler a question, or contact him by telephone at 303-670-4430.
this is achieved by providing undersized  water chillers capable of producing chilled water at low temperature  (22-24f).
this is the fourth in a series of short collaborative posts about russ keeler.
" have a question for russ?
how can we help you improve your web search visibility?
"ice based thermal storage is an excellent means to reduce the size of  an air conditioning cooling plant.
chason  energy, llc | expert witness hvac and plumbing chason energy is a  nationally based hvac and plumbing engineering practice specializing in  forensic investigation and litigation support to attorneys.
what if your water is blue,  caustic & toxic? |
russ is learning about new media, blogging, twitter, and getting the word out to lawyers in need of his services, while the rest of us to learn from russ keeler about plumbing and hvac, and the technical side of hvac and plumbing litigation.
how do you allocate utility costs in mixed use developments?
how can ice be used to create more efficient air conditioning systems while building smaller chiller plants?
that show technology
the savings are not only in duct and fan size, but also in fan room  requirements.
today's question, "how can you save space and money on air conditioning, using ice based thermal storage?
this results in naturally high placement on google, yahoo, and other  search engines.
:-) "interpretation of a design/build specification
a better blogsite  builds a massive cloud of information around your answers, around your  products.
a better blogsite gets your message to the people looking for it, even if they've never heard of you, your clients, or your products.
chason energy, llc | expert witness hvac and plumbing chason energy is a nationally based hvac and plumbing engineering practice specializing in forensic investigation and litigation support to attorneys.
a better blogsite gets your message to the people looking for it, even if  they've never heard of you, your clients, or your products.
how do you allocate utility costs in mixed use  developments? |
russ is learning about new  media, blogging, twitter, and getting the word out to lawyers in need of his  services, while the rest of us to learn from russ  keeler about plumbing and hvac, and the technical side of hvac and  plumbing litigation.
http://hvacexpertwitness.com topic tags:   bid price was low,  design/build specification, hvac expert witness, hvac forensic investigation,  hvac litigation support, john gaudio, plumbing expert witness, plumbing fornsic  investigation, plumbing litigation support, russ keeler knows by  johngaudio  |  comment  |  ↑top  |  link to  this january 28, 2010 hvac and plumbing expert witness, russ keeler --
today's question, "what makes your water blue, caustic, and toxic, and what can you do about it?" http://abetterblogsite.com/public/item/244524 hvac expert witness russ keeler learn more about russ keeler and the services he provides to attorneys, both in pre-litigation and litigation phases of heating ventilation air conditioning and plumbing cases.
http://chasonenergy.com/ moisture control in buildings, chapter 10, heating and cooling equipment, by russell m. keeler.
then check back for more expert advice from russ keeler.
a few years ago, i was involved in a matter where a contractor hired an engineer to create plans and specifications based on a performance specification issued by an owner.
today's question, "how do you allocate utility costs in mixed use developments?" http://abetterblogsite.com/public/item/244428 hvac expert witness russ keeler -- "new windows, or a new furnace?" | a better blogsite ask russ keeler.
"low temperature air distribution conventional air distribution systems employ conditioning air at 56-60f. low temperature air distribution, usually combined withthermal storage, supplies air at 47f.
i'm helping russ learn about new media, blogging, twitter, and getting the word out to lawyers in need of his services, while russ is helping the rest of us learn about plumbing, hvac, and the technical side of hvac and plumbing litigation.
this is the fifth in a series of short collaborative posts about russ keeler.
specializing in forensic investigations for hvac and plumbing cases, russ keeler helps smart attorneys and their clients.
a better blogsite russ keeler, answers the tough  questions.
that's what smart attorneys do.
"low temperature air distribution conventional air distribution systems employ conditioning air at  56-60f.  low temperature air distribution, usually combined withthermal  storage, supplies air at 47f.  the major benefit of low temperature air is  to reduce the required cooling air quantity by over 40%, shrinking ducts and  fans by a significant amount.
smaller ducts can increase the ceiling height without  increasing the floor-to-floor height of the building."
http://hvacexpertwitness.com topic tags:   hvac expert witness,  hvac forensic investigation, hvac litigation support, ice based thermal storage, john gaudio, overly complex control systems, plumbing expert witness, plumbing  fornsic investigation, plumbing litigation support, russ keeler knows by johngaudio  |  comment  |  ↑top  |  link  to this syndication options buy this 77 minute debate, and learn from the best, hugh  hewitt, how to debate your liberal friends.
it's also a green solution, as nighttime  electric production uses the most efficient part of the generating  system.
a better blogsite russ keeler specializes in forensic investigations for hvac and plumbing cases, serving attorneys nationwide as a plumbing and hvac expert witness.
how do you allocate utility costs in mixed use developments? |
successful installations have reduced the size of the chiller plant by up  to 40%, and saved a significant part of the electric demand cost, with no loss  of comfort.
russ is learning about new  media, blogging, twitter, and getting the word out to lawyers in need of his  services, while the rest of us to learn from russ  keeler about plumbing and hvac.
better blogsites let you promote as many related search terms  as you like.
think of the questions your typical customers will ask, then answer them.
russell keeler wrote  chapter 10 on heating an cooling equipment in the four hundred plus page book,  astm manual series: mnl18, pcn 28-018194-10 http://www.astm.org/bookstore/pubs/pdfs/mnl18_toc.pdf russ keeler,  hvac expert witness --
russ keeler specializes in forensic investigations for hvac  and plumbing cases, serving attorneys nationwide as a plumbing and hvac expert  witness.
thermal storage acts as a “battery”, which creates ice during minimal load hours at night, then melts that ice during the peak daytime hours.
"interpretation of a design/build specification
the judge found for the contractor.
as expected, the contractor  sued the engineer for the difference in cost between the bid price and the cost  to install the required installation.
a better blogsite russ keeler, answers the tough questions.
care must be taken in design; many systems have failed due to  overly complex control systems.
this is the sixth in a series of short collaborative  posts about russ keeler.
what if your consulting  engineer takes liberties interpreting design/build specifications, and those  liberties cost you a fortune?
john gaudio, 303-933-4497, john@gaudio.com january 31, 2010 hvac and plumbing expert witness, russ keeler -- how to keep cool, increase ceiling height, and save money, without increasing the floor-to-floor height of your building russ keeler specializes in forensic investigations for hvac and plumbing cases, serving attorneys nationwide as a plumbing and hvac expert witness.
today's question, "what  makes your water blue, caustic, and toxic, and what can you do about it?" http://abetterblogsite.com/public/item/244524 hvac expert  witness russ keeler learn more about russ keeler and the services he  provides to attorneys, both in pre-litigation and litigation phases of heating  ventilation air conditioning and plumbing cases.
his bid price was low (by half) compared  to the next bidder, and he was awarded the project.
russ keeler specializes in forensic  investigations for hvac & plumbing cases, serving attorneys nationwide as a  plumbing & hvac expert witness.
have a question for russ?  please post a comment below to ask  russ keeler a question, or contact him by telephone at 303-670-4430.
today's question, "how do you get paid when a consulting engineer screws up your design/build specification?
as expected, the contractor sued the engineer for the difference in cost between the bid price and the cost to install the required installation.
303-670-4430 by john gaudio, how can you use ice like a battery, for more efficient air conditioning?
guest weblogs abakus search engine marketing seo blog blogsite news robin good's search tools and technologies a better blogsite briefings advertising for law offices and attorneys blogsites that show technology political blogsites search engine optimization seo search engines love blogsites, yielding high web search visibility web search visibility
this is the fifth in a series of short collaborative  posts about russ keeler.
myst high web search visibility & search engine optimization, (seo) learn to use a better blogsite for outstanding organic web search  visibility results on google, yahoo, and other search engines.
please post a comment below to ask russ keeler a question, or contact him by telephone at 303-670-4430.
today's question, "how do you allocate  utility costs in mixed use developments?
the  performance specification was rather specific in terms of expected sound levels  and temperature conditions in the various spaces.
his bid price was low (by half) compared to the next bidder, and he was awarded the project.
the performance specification was rather specific in terms of expected sound levels and temperature conditions in the various spaces.
russell keeler wrote chapter 10 on heating an cooling equipment in the four hundred plus page book, astm manual series: mnl18, pcn 28-018194-10 http://www.astm.org/bookstore/pubs/pdfs/mnl18_toc.pdf russ keeler, hvac expert witness --
russ keeler specializes in forensic investigations for hvac & plumbing cases, serving attorneys nationwide as a plumbing & hvac expert witness.
http://hvacexpertwitness.com topic tags:   floor-to-floor height  of building, hvac expert witness, hvac forensic investigation, hvac litigation  support, john gaudio, low temperature air distribution, plumbing expert witness, plumbing fornsic investigation, plumbing litigation support, russ keeler knows by johngaudio  |  comment (1)  |  ↑top   |  link to this january 31, 2010 hvac and plumbing expert witness, russ keeler --
have a question for russ?
john  gaudio, 303-933-4497, john@gaudio.com january 31, 2010 hvac and plumbing expert witness, russ keeler -- how to keep cool,  increase ceiling height, and save money, without increasing the floor-to-floor  height of your building russ keeler specializes in forensic  investigations for hvac and plumbing cases, serving attorneys nationwide as a  plumbing and hvac expert witness.
today's question,  "how do you allocate utility costs in mixed use developments?" http://abetterblogsite.com/public/item/244428 hvac expert witness  russ keeler -- "new windows, or a new furnace?" | a better blogsite ask russ keeler.
think of the  questions your typical customers will ask, then answer them.
http://hvacexpertwitness.com topic tags: bid price was low, design/build specification, hvac expert witness, hvac forensic investigation, hvac litigation support, john gaudio, plumbing expert witness, plumbing fornsic investigation, plumbing litigation support, russ keeler knows by johngaudio | comment | ↑top | link to this january 28, 2010 hvac and plumbing expert witness, russ keeler --
http://hvacexpertwitness.com topic tags: hvac expert witness, hvac forensic investigation, hvac litigation support, ice based thermal storage, john gaudio, overly complex control systems, plumbing expert witness, plumbing fornsic investigation, plumbing litigation support, russ keeler knows by johngaudio | comment | ↑top | link to this syndication options buy this 77 minute debate, and learn from the best, hugh hewitt, how to debate your liberal friends.
today's question, "how can you save space and money on air  conditioning, using ice based thermal storage?
by explaining complex engineering concepts in simple language, russ keeler provides hvac litigation support for attorneys across the nation.
surprise,  surprise, when the plans were reviewed by the concept engineer, they were  rejected!
great people, places & products high web search visibility & search engine optimization, (seo) how search engines find a better blogsite, and other blogsites powered by myst comments mobile & syndication options subscribe iphone android xml feeds rss atom opml myst high web search visibility & search engine optimization, (seo) learn to use a better blogsite for outstanding organic web search visibility results on google, yahoo, and other search engines.
you call russ keeler. :-)
by explaining complex  engineering concepts in simple language, russ keeler provides hvac litigation  support for attorneys across the nation.
what's new faq topic cloud a better blogsite links j. gaudio company better blogging technology under the covers weblogs entconnect, (entrepreneurial connections)
thermal  storage acts as a “battery”, which creates ice during minimal load  hours at night, then melts that ice during the peak daytime hours.
http://abetterblogsite.com/public/item/244376 hvac  & plumbing expert witness, russ keeler --
the engineer developed bid documents, which the contractor then used to prepare his bid.
a few years ago, i was involved in a matter where a contractor hired an  engineer to create plans and specifications based on a performance  specification issued by an owner.
care must be taken in design; many systems have failed due to overly complex control systems.
the major benefit of low temperature air is to reduce the required cooling air quantity by over 40%, shrinking ducts and fans by a significant amount.
" http://abetterblogsite.com/public/item/244428 hvac expert witness russ keeler -- "new windows, or a new furnace?" | a better blogsite ask russ keeler.
"ice based thermal storage is an excellent means to reduce the size of an air conditioning cooling plant.
a better blogsite russ keeler specializes in forensic investigations for hvac and plumbing cases, serving attorney's nationwide as a plumbing and hvac expert witness.
it was my task to identify the  areas where the engineer had taken liberties in the design.
specializing in  forensic investigations for hvac and plumbing cases, russ keeler helps smart  attorneys and their clients.
better blogsites let you promote as many related search terms as you like.
303-670-4430 by john gaudio, how do you and your client get paid if your consulting engineer screws up your design/build specification?
303-670-4430 by john gaudio, i need higher ceilings, but floor-to-floor height is limited.
successful installations have reduced the size of the chiller plant by up to 40%, and saved a significant part of the electric demand cost, with no loss of comfort.
303-670-4430 by john gaudio, i need higher ceilings, but floor-to-floor height is limited.
i'm helping russ learn about new  media, blogging, twitter, and getting the word out to lawyers in need of his  services, while russ is helping the rest of us
russ is learning about new media, blogging, twitter, and getting the word out to lawyers in need of his services, while the rest of us to learn from russ keeler about plumbing and hvac.
how can i reduce the space required for my air conditioning ducts and  still keep my space cool?
" hvac and plumbing  expert witness with over 30 years experience.
the documents created by the engineer  were used by the contractor to prepare a bid (in this case a casino).
" hvac and plumbing expert witness with over 30 years experience.
how do you allocate utility costs in mixed use  developments?
the contractor was forced to provide an installation that conformed to the performance specification.
the typical cooling load of a building shows that the peak  design cooling is only required for a few hours in the afternoon.
then check  back for more expert advice from russ keeler.
it was my task to identify the areas where the engineer had taken liberties in the design.
today's question, "how do you get paid  when a consulting engineer screws up your design/build specification?
russ keeler specializes in forensic investigations for hvac and plumbing cases, serving attorneys nationwide as a plumbing and hvac expert witness.
" http://abetterblogsite.com/public/item/244428 hvac expert witness  russ keeler -- "new windows, or a new furnace?" | a better blogsite ask russ keeler.
it's also a green solution, as nighttime electric production uses the most efficient part of the generating system.
the contractor was forced to provide an installation that  conformed to the performance specification.
how can ice be used to  create more efficient air conditioning systems while building smaller chiller  plants?
today's question, "how do you allocate utility costs in mixed use developments?
guest weblogs abakus  search engine marketing seo blog blogsite news robin good's search  tools and technologies a better blogsite briefings advertising for  law offices and attorneys blogsites
the typical cooling load of a building shows that the peak design cooling is only required for a few hours in the afternoon.
a better blogsite builds a massive cloud of information around your answers, around your products.
how can i reduce the space required for my air conditioning ducts and still keep my space cool?
303-670-4430 by john gaudio, how do you and your client get paid if your consulting engineer screws up  your design/build specification?
specializing in forensic investigations for hvac and plumbing cases,  russ keeler helps smart attorneys and their clients.
today's question, "how can you save space and money with low temperature air distribution?" russ keeler is an hvac and plumbing expert witness with over 30 years experience.
monthly archives january, 2010 november, 2009 october, 2009 may, 2009 march, 2009 may, 2008 march, 2008 january, 2008 december, 2007 september, 2007 august, 2007 july, 2007 june, 2007 may, 2007 march, 2007 february, 2007 january, 2007 december, 2006 november, 2006 october, 2006 august, 2006 july, 2006 may, 2006 march, 2006 january, 2006 december, 2005 november, 2005 september, 2005 june, 2005 may, 2005 april, 2005 march, 2005 february, 2005 january, 2005 disclaimer | webmaster | powered by myst blogsite®
this is achieved by providing undersized water chillers capable of producing chilled water at low temperature (22-24f).