however, you must always remember that even if they all improve  their contextual search abilities, they still need to be able to understand the  proper context of the document that they are looking at.
our tests have proven  the methodology, behind ensuring relevant placement based on content and  context.
the search results  had little to do with google understanding the context and more to do with; did  the web site operator or optimizer understand content well enough as to ensure  the necessary information was found by the search engines, within a web site.
attention: how to submit your s... find more search  engine tricks articles © 2003-2012 by developer shed.
context is the next big frontier for the search engines.
it is however at the core of our new phraseology technology, which is being worked into our service at this time.
it will be interesting to see if microsoft's new search engine due sometime next year, can do any better than the existing offerings.
more search engine tricks articles more by developer shed
it should be at the core of every search engine algorithm, but obviously  context is not yet there.
yet  contextually these are the same query, but the search engines proved they had  no contextual analysis built into their search algorithms.
i basically tested various wordings of the same question - "things search engines look for"; "things that a search engine looks for"; "what search engines look for"; and "what a search engine looks for," to see how dramatically the different search results would actually vary if the wording, but not the intent or meaning of what i was querying actually changed.
our existing technology already ensures that our web site is in the top 3 results for the 2 queries mentioned above, but only just got us to the top 30 for the variant query "what does a search engine look for."
two  weeks ago google announced it had purchased a uk based firm, principally for  its contextual search capabilities; it begged the question how well was google  or any other engine, actually able to understand context within queries, at the  present time.
a part of the problem in search engines relates to end users (you) expectations of what you will see in search results.
i've run a few search query tests on the search engines recently.
it will be interesting to see if microsoft's  new search engine due sometime next year, can do any better than the existing  offerings.
having the properly optimized content would ensure that a relevant web site  would be able to fulfill the needs of a variety of contextually similar queries  from the search engines.
(our site of course!)
our existing  technology already ensures that our web site is in the top 3 results for the 2  queries mentioned above, but only just got us to the top 30 for the variant  query "what does a search engine look for."
it should be at the core of every search engine algorithm, but obviously context is not yet there.
this process of helping guide the search  engine to better understand the context of a document, so that the engine can  properly direct searchers to the right document, and thus ensure relevant  results, is a the core of what any good search engine optimization firm must  do.
only 1 web site appeared for both queries in the top 25.
it will help boost your rankings in more search  results than ever before.
yet contextually these are the same query, but the search engines proved they had no contextual analysis built into their search algorithms.
at this time it will, when fully integrated, start stringing together contextual key messages in a fashion which logically improves search engine performance.
for the  purposes of this article, in google i used the queries "what a search  engine looks for" and "what search engines look for".
the search results had little to do with google understanding the context and more to do with; did the web site operator or optimizer understand content well enough as to ensure the necessary information was found by the search engines, within a web site.
eventually, this technology will be able to string together contextually and grammatically correct sentences summarizing a document.
phraseology will build upon and improve this concept.
however, you must always remember that even if they all improve their contextual search abilities, they still need to be able to understand the proper context of the document that they are looking at.
i won't bore you with all the details and data from all search  engines for all the tests i ran - they all gave similar results.
as such it is incumbent  upon the reader to employ real-world tactics for security and implementation of  best practices.
the content provided is  intended for entertainment and/or educational purposes in order to introduce to  the reader key ideas, concepts, and/or product reviews.
having the properly optimized content would ensure that a relevant web site would be able to fulfill the needs of a variety of contextually similar queries from the search engines.
only 1 web  site appeared for both queries in the top 25.
it is however at the core of our new  phraseology technology, which is being worked into our service at this time.
alongside yahoo pouring millions of dollars into combining fast, inktomi and  altavista into the new yahoo! search tool, it will get more and more  interesting.
eventually, this technology will be able to string together contextually and  grammatically correct sentences summarizing a document.
this process of helping guide the search engine to better understand the context of a document, so that the engine can properly direct searchers to the right document, and thus ensure relevant results, is a the core of what any good search engine optimization firm must do.
i've run a few search query tests on  the search engines recently.
for the purposes of this article, in google i used the queries "what a search engine looks for" and "what search engines look for".
it's really an ongoing thing.
alongside yahoo pouring millions of dollars into combining fast, inktomi and altavista into the new yahoo! search tool, it will get more and more interesting.
we are not liable for any negative consequences that may result  from implementing any information covered in our articles or tutorials.
our tests have proven the methodology, behind ensuring relevant placement based on content and context.
it will help boost your rankings in more search results than ever before.
i basically tested  various wordings of the same question - "things search engines look  for"; "things that a search engine looks for"; "what search  engines look for"; and "what a search engine looks for," to see  how dramatically the different search results would actually vary if the  wording, but not the intent or meaning of what i was querying actually changed.
context within search and optimization by richard zwicky a part of the problem in search engines relates to end users (you) expectations  of what you will see in search results.
at this time it will,  when fully integrated, start stringing together contextual key messages in a  fashion which logically improves search engine performance.
therefore i was testing how well the search engines would actually understand context.
i won't bore you with all the details and data from all search engines for all the tests i ran - they all gave similar results.
we keep hearing that it is going to be something better than google.
more search engine tricks articles more by developer shed - check your code for seo  issues - to be an seo, start with what you know - don`t worry about bad  inbound links - guard your google places listing - overlooked seo tricks - a simple long tail keyword strategy - writing for the long tail -  choosing and using keywords - seven more seo myths that can hurt your sit... - google tips and tricks - will google social search affect your  traffi... - how much money
advertisementadvertisement context within search and optimization by richard zwicky
phraseology will build  upon and improve this concept.
therefore i was testing how well the search engines would actually understand  context.
if this  is a hardware review, it is not recommended to open and/or modify your hardware.
two weeks ago google announced it had purchased a uk based firm, principally for its contextual search capabilities; it begged the question how well was google or any other engine, actually able to understand context within queries, at the present time.
- submitting urls  to search engines - want to optimize?
simplify for search engines - get  google`s
ds cluster 4  - follow oursitemap [-x-]  download a free trial and enter to win  free software licenses.
can you make with adsense?
the content provided in this article is  not warranted or guaranteed by developer shed, inc.