one of the winning features of this local search engine is the inclusion of a map beside the displayed results, unlike the map at yahoo which opens on a different page.
that's what makes them the  perfect test market for yahoo's local-search engine.
"it's definitely a growth opportunity," said greg sterling, an analyst for the kelsey group.
while it sometimes takes a bit of fiddling with address coordinates and zip codes, the feature produces precise directions in text and map form.
google local google's version of local search is quite similar to  yahoo's but feels much less cluttered.
one of the winning  features of this local search engine is the inclusion of a map beside the  displayed results, unlike the map at yahoo which opens on a different page.
filling in the form takes less than five minutes and can only be  beneficial for business.
hedger can be reached at jim.hedger@gmail.com disclaimer:
search  results are displayed in groupings of 10, based primarily on the distance from  the approximate center of the geographic information entered.
if this is a hardware review, it is not recommended to  open and/or modify your hardware.
most search analysts feel  the local-search market will become a cornerstone for both yahoo and google to  build on as they move towards producing personalized search results for their  users.
new yorkers aren't just city-folk, they define what is hip in urban living in the early part of this century.
what we see at yahoo and google today is likely going to change and improve over the next few months.
yahoo local yahoo's local search is featured prominently on their  standard front page with an easily found tab-link just above the keyword  text-box.
early next week, nyc transit users will get a first hand glimpse of a clever marketing tactic from yahoo.
unlike their counterparts in cities like la, rome or tokyo, new  yorkers don't fall for fads, set trends, or get giddy over the next new thing,  ever.
many also feel yahoo has a slight lead on google in the local search arena, though both firms are far ahead of their rivals in terms of usage, coverage and precision.
today, about 25% of all search  activity is users looking for a specific business or service in their local  area.
google invites businesses to email them  any contact information changes ( local-listings@google.com ) and they will not  only update your listing at google-local, they will also pass the new  information to the source that provided them contact info from your area.
with the paid search sector expected to grow into an $8billion per year industry, sterling predicts local-search will comprise about 1/5th of the market by 2008.
"there's clear consumer demand that google, yahoo and others are responding to."
more than any other city on the planet, new york is exciting, expansive and always interesting.
early next week, nyc transit users will get a first hand glimpse of a  clever marketing tactic from yahoo.
yahoo's local search also includes the yahoo map feature, allowing the  searcher to plan easy routes between destinations.
"there's clear consumer demand that google,  yahoo and others are responding to."
while it sometimes takes a bit of  fiddling with address coordinates and zip codes, the feature produces precise  directions in text and map form.
for example, if your business moved locations after the most recent telephone  directory was published, the information in that directory would be incorrect,  as would your listing at google-local.
he has worked as an seo for over 5 years and welcomes the opportunity to share his experience through interviews, articles and speaking engagements.
with both companies looking to expand their revenue sources,  local-search is going to be an important issue for search engine marketers and  businesses relying on customers referred by search engines.
that's what makes them the perfect test market for yahoo's local-search engine.
ds cluster 5 - follow our sitemap [-x-]  download a free trial and enter to win free software licenses.
an example would be the integration of a application like keyhole into local-search.
this link opens a fairly straight forward form asking for basic information about a business, including the nature of the submitter's relationship to the business.
with the paid search sector expected  to grow into an $8billion per year industry, sterling predicts local-search  will comprise about 1/5th of the market by 2008.
as earth's unofficial capital city  new york is home to many of the world's largest entities, some even bigger than  donald trump's ego.
as one of the most multicultural cities, every cultural group  in the world is represented within its 301 square mile area.
an interesting feature of the culture at google is their willingness to help businesses update any out-of-date information carried in print directories they get listings from.
yahoo plans to install bus stop kiosks  featuring yahoo local-search in order to test user's responses in one of the  densest urban environments in the us.
with both companies looking to expand their revenue sources, local-search is going to be an important issue for search engine marketers and businesses relying on customers referred by search engines.
most search analysts feel the local-search market will become a cornerstone for both yahoo and google to build on as they move towards producing personalized search results for their users.
both yahoo and google are vying for dominance in the local-search market,  but they face stiff competition from traditional advertising mediums such as  the telephone directories, as well as from smaller search engines such as  ask.
google-local also displays results in lists of  10, though they use the letters a-j on each page of results.
to the top right of the results is a feature reading "view results on a map" that generates a standard yahoo map with all of the businesses listed in the search displayed in their street locations.
placement is determined by distance from the center of the geographic search area.
yahoo plans to install bus stop kiosks featuring yahoo local-search in order to test user's responses in one of the densest urban environments in the us.
advertisementadvertisement local search: yahoo!
in the coming years, search engines are going to present searches with a  more personalized and generally a more localized search experience.
can you make with adsense?
an interesting feature  of the culture at google is their willingness to help businesses update any  out-of-date information carried in print directories they get listings from.
as it stands today however, yahoo and google are far  and away the market leaders in local-search.
google local google's version of local search is quite similar to yahoo's but feels much less cluttered.
google-local gets its listings from a number of sources including local yellow pages and telephone directories.
from this point, the only way for a smaller company to effectively enter the market is to present searchers with stronger and better branded technologies.
to the top right  of the results is a feature reading "view results on a map" that  generates a standard yahoo map with all of the businesses listed in the search  displayed in their street locations.
more search engine tricks articles more by developer shed - google`s panda update at one  year old - why links don`t count
what we see  at yahoo and google today is likely going to change and improve over the next  few months.
businesses wanting to be listed in google-local are asked to submit their  information via email but before they do, they should check to see if they are  already in the index.
as it stands today however, yahoo and google are far and away the market leaders in local-search.
more than any other city on the planet, new york is  exciting, expansive and always interesting.
google-local gets its listings from a number of sources  including local yellow pages and telephone directories.
yahoo local yahoo's local search is featured prominently on their standard front page with an easily found tab-link just above the keyword text-box.
an example would be the integration  of a application like keyhole into local-search.
new york is also the home of over 8-million people.
while it is still considered a beta-test  version of a local-search tool, it works quite well.
no other city has captured the world's imagination or harnessed its wealth to the degree of nyc.
no other city has captured the world's imagination or  harnessed its wealth to the degree of nyc.
listings are added to yahoo's local search by clicking on the link marked, "add/edit a business".
local and google local by jim hedger i love new york city.
placement is  determined by distance from the center of the geographic search area.
jim works with a limited group of clients and provides consultancy  services to stepforth search engine placement.
while it is still considered a beta-test version of a local-search tool, it works quite well.
hedger can be reached at jim.hedger@gmail.com more search engine tricks articles more by developer shed
this link opens a fairly straight forward form  asking for basic information about a business, including the nature of the  submitter's relationship to the business.
from this point, the only way for  a smaller company to effectively enter the market is to present searchers with  stronger and better branded technologies.
a search for a cybercafe on 8 th avenue in nyc produced a lengthy list of all cybercafes in the five boroughs including the first reference, a short two blocks from the epicenter of my search, w.42nd and 8th.
the first kiosk will be installed at w.  42nd st and eighth avenue.
as one of the most multicultural cities, every cultural group in the world is represented within its 301 square mile area.
filling in the form takes less than five minutes and can only be beneficial for business.
in the coming years, search engines are going to present searches with a more personalized and generally a more localized search experience.
- submitting urls  to search engines find more search engine tricks articles © 2003-2012 by  developer shed.
businesses wanting to be listed in google-local are asked to submit their information via email but before they do, they should check to see if they are already in the index.
"it's definitely a growth opportunity," said greg sterling, an  analyst for the kelsey group.
yahoo's local search also includes the yahoo map feature, allowing the searcher to plan easy routes between destinations.
the first kiosk will be installed at w. 42nd st and eighth avenue.
jim hedger is a writer, speaker and search engine marketing expert based in victoria bc.
listings are added to yahoo's local search by clicking on the link marked,  "add/edit a business".
unlike their counterparts in cities like la, rome or tokyo, new yorkers don't fall for fads, set trends, or get giddy over the next new thing, ever.
right now, it appears that submission  to the local search database is free so businesses should take a few minutes to  get a listing there, especially as it is likely yahoo will eventually charge  for inclusion.
for example, if your business moved locations after the most recent telephone directory was published, the information in that directory would be incorrect, as would your listing at google-local.
jim works with a limited group of clients and provides consultancy services to stepforth search engine placement.
another feature lets the searcher to specify the size of the search radius through a drop-down menu measuring in 1, 3, 5, 10, 25, and 50 miles from the center of the search area.
the local search page asks users to type the product, service or business they are looking for in one text-box and then type geographic information such as a street name or zip code into a second text-box.
the local search page asks users to type the product, service or  business they are looking for in one text-box and then type geographic  information such as a street name or zip code into a second text-box.
they are one of the most jaded and cynical populations and in their east  coast way, take great pride in their worldliness.
new york is also the home of over  8-million people.
google's local results do not offer as much information as yahoo's but they do  include exact street addresses, and a feature that allows users to get  directions from their present location.
a search for a cybercafe on 8 th avenue in nyc  produced a lengthy list of all cybercafes in the five boroughs including the  first reference, a short two blocks from the epicenter of my search, w.42nd and  8th.
he has worked as an seo for over  5 years and welcomes the opportunity to share his experience through  interviews, articles and speaking engagements.
another feature lets the searcher to  specify the size of the search radius through a drop-down menu measuring in 1,  3, 5, 10, 25, and 50 miles from the center of the search area.
new yorkers aren't  just city-folk, they define what is hip in urban living in the early part of  this century.
as such it  is incumbent upon the reader to employ real-world tactics for security and  implementation of best practices.
we are not liable for any negative  consequences that may result from implementing any information covered in our  articles or tutorials.
instantly - check your code for seo  issues - to be an seo, start with what you know - don`t worry about bad  inbound links - guard your google places listing - overlooked seo tricks - a simple long tail keyword strategy - writing for the long tail -  choosing and using keywords - seven more seo myths that can hurt your sit... - google tips and tricks - will google social search affect your  traffi... - how much money
today, about 25% of all search activity is users looking for a specific business or service in their local area.
as earth's unofficial capital city new york is home to many of the world's largest entities, some even bigger than donald trump's ego.
right now, it appears that submission to the local search database is free so businesses should take a few minutes to get a listing there, especially as it is likely yahoo will eventually charge for inclusion.
google's local results do not offer as much information as yahoo's but they do include exact street addresses, and a feature that allows users to get directions from their present location.
both yahoo and google are vying for dominance in the local-search market, but they face stiff competition from traditional advertising mediums such as the telephone directories, as well as from smaller search engines such as ask.
jim hedger is a writer, speaker and search engine marketing expert based in  victoria bc.
many also feel yahoo has a slight lead on google in the local search  arena, though both firms are far ahead of their rivals in terms of usage,  coverage and precision.
they are one of the most jaded and cynical populations and in their east coast way, take great pride in their worldliness.
the content provided in this  article is not warranted or guaranteed by developer shed, inc.
google invites businesses to email them any contact information changes ( local-listings@google.com ) and they will not only update your listing at google-local, they will also pass the new information to the source that provided them contact info from your area.
the content  provided is intended for entertainment and/or educational purposes in order to  introduce to the reader key ideas, concepts, and/or product reviews.
search results are displayed in groupings of 10, based primarily on the distance from the approximate center of the geographic information entered.
google-local also displays results in lists of 10, though they use the letters a-j on each page of results.