you never know… and because you don’t remember the most important seo advice: optimize your sites for the users!
enough links to keep you busy till  tomorrow.
responses are currently closed, but you can trackback from your own site.
what attracted my attention at this blog announcement was one of the comments:do users read urls?
it’s good to know that the american customer satisfaction  index reportsyahoo! ranking better than google in customer satisfaction.
is the  near future going to bring some surprises?
no more duplicate content penalties from yahoo!.
well, that’s it for today.
it’s good to know that the american customer satisfaction index reportsyahoo! ranking better than google in customer satisfaction.
and google are favorite online brands.
you can follow any responses to this entry through therss 2.0 feed.
it really depends what kind of users we are dealing with.
in my experience the answer is a “yes and  no.”
site explorer announces its users  that now itsupports dynamic urls.
but google doesn’t sleep (it just slips) and announces today the  release of a new service: a simple new way toembed google maps with html.
on the other side of the barricade yahoo!
but this  is another topic of debate.
quod  erat demonstrandum.
is the near future going to bring some surprises?
enough links to keep you busy till tomorrow.
quod erat demonstrandum.
maybe i should add a yahoo! category to the blog?
but when i look at the topics above, i cannot help but wonder: is  yahoo!
tel: 01625 511 222 copyright © 2006 - 2011 | company reg no. 05990073
first of all, i have to open a bottle of champagne, and celebrate.
seo ltd is a search engine optimisation & pay per click management company based in cheshire 6-8 market place - macclesfield - cheshire - sk10 1ex
search engine oracle blog ranks on the first position in google forpink cheetahs.
this entry was posted on tuesday, august 21st, 2007 at 8:35 pm and is  filed undersearch engine optimisation.
but google doesn’t sleep (it just slips) and announces today the release of a new service: a simple new way toembed google maps with html.
responses are currently closed, but you can  trackback from your own site.
the regular web user doesn’t read urls.
this entry was posted on tuesday, august 21st, 2007 at 8:35 pm and is filed undersearch engine optimisation.
and google are favorite online  brands.
is google really missing a point here?
you can follow any responses to this  entry through therss 2.0 feed.
but this is another topic of debate.
really better than google?
site explorer announces its users that now itsupports dynamic urls.
but when i look at the topics above, i cannot help but wonder: is yahoo!
then, according to jupiterresearch, yahoo!
search  engine oracle blog ranks on the first position in google forpink cheetahs.
you never know… and because  you don’t remember the most important seo advice: optimize your sites for  the users!
let’s see how things evolve.
no more duplicate content penalties from  yahoo!.
in my experience the answer is a “yes and no.”
let’s see how  things evolve.
what attracted my attention at this blog announcement was one of the  comments:do users read urls?
posted by: ben ashton in search engine  optimisation