the language identifier is essential as solr requires naming fields based on the language.
with rosette’s apache lucene and solr connector, these benefits  are achieved by enterprise customers who use these tools for search-based  applications, enterprise search and other deployments.
leading organizations use us for deep linguistic processing and highly accurate search results in many languages.
rosette base linguistics, which tokenizes text, plugs into lucene and solr as a tokenizer class, allowing quick and easy set-up of multilingual search.
most importantly, our  knowledgeable technical staff is available to support our customers—  regardless of the native search language.
our technology has been tuned for high throughput and is highly  scalable in the lucene and solr environment.
entities extracted enable faceted  search results.
© 2012 basis technology corp. tel +1-617-386-2000 | info@basistech.com
many languages – one language technology
rosette uses a combination of lexical data, heuristic rules, and statistical  models to tokenize text, perform morphological analysis, extract entities,  search for name variants, and more.
rosette language identifier and rosette entity extractor seamlessly integrate with solr as updateprocessors.
evaluate and deploy in hours rosette base linguistics, which tokenizes text, plugs into lucene and solr  as a tokenizer class, allowing quick and easy set-up of multilingual search.
a solution for every language challenge each of the world’s languages is unique, and search engines need to  understand specific features of each language to deliver the best results.
decompounding words into sub-components for languages that  freely create compounds—such as german, dutch, and korean—to boost  recall lemmatization for relevant query expansion to boost recall and  precision part-of-speech tagging to improve precision and recall entity extraction finds entities to enable faceted search on key  names and entities in search results for more information error fill out the form below, and we’ll contact you about your rosette for  apache lucene and solr questions.
dependable speed and accuracy our software has been extensively tested by major web and enterprise search  providers, who adopted rosette to provide quality search results in over 40  languages.
leading organizations use us for deep  linguistic processing and highly accurate search results in many languages.
connection to solr only requires a modification to the  schema.xml and solrconfig.xml.
rosette gives search implementers high speed and accuracy for these  languages via one api, so that plugging in one or 40 languages is easy and  predictable.
rosette uses a combination of lexical data, heuristic rules, and statistical models to tokenize text, perform morphological analysis, extract entities, search for name variants, and more.
with rosette’s apache lucene and solr connector, these benefits are achieved by enterprise customers who use these tools for search-based applications, enterprise search and other deployments.
for more information about our language support for apache lucene and solr, download therosette for solr-based applications solution brief, download our whitepaper“multilingual search with apache lucene & solr”, request a product evaluation, or browse our presentations about multilingual search.
there are many sources of european, asian, and middle eastern language  support for search with lucene/solr, but implementing many languages may  require several vendors and modules with different performance levels and  features.
basis technology has been providing support for our customers around the world for over 15 years.
we continually evaluate new approaches to linguistic analysis and update technologies or lexical data in our regular releases to enable our customers to focus on what they do best.
rosette gives search implementers high speed and accuracy for these languages via one api, so that plugging in one or 40 languages is easy and predictable.
most importantly, our knowledgeable technical staff is available to support our customers— regardless of the native search language.
* indicates a required field
rosette for lucene & solr language support for lucene/solr search basis technology’s rosette provides enterprise-quality linguistic  analysis to apache lucene and solr.
this linguistic plug-in delivers quality multilingual search results in over 40 asian, european, and middle eastern languages.
each of the world’s languages is unique, and search engines need to understand specific features of each language to deliver the best results.
rosette provides these linguistic advantages: fill out the form below, and we’ll contact you about your rosette for apache lucene and solr questions.
there are many sources of european, asian, and middle eastern language support for search with lucene/solr, but implementing many languages may require several vendors and modules with different performance levels and features.
rosette language identifier and rosette entity extractor seamlessly integrate  with solr as updateprocessors.
the language identifier is essential as solr  requires naming fields based on the language.
linguistics chosen by web search giants our commercially supported text analytics platform for search is used by  top search engines including google, yahoo!, and bing to segment asian text,  improve indexing through morphological analysis, and apply other  language-specific features for better precision and greater recall in search  results.
rosette also now supports lucidworks enterprise  version 1.5, a new solr-based search solution development platform from lucid  imagination.
entities extracted enable faceted search results.
we continually evaluate new approaches to  linguistic analysis and update technologies or lexical data in our regular  releases to enable our customers to focus on what they do best.
basis technology has been providing support for our customers  around the world for over 15 years.
our software has been extensively tested by major web and enterprise search providers, who adopted rosette to provide quality search results in over 40 languages.
our commercially supported text analytics platform for search is used by top search engines including google, yahoo!, and bing to segment asian text, improve indexing through morphological analysis, and apply other language-specific features for better precision and greater recall in search results.
rosette provides these linguistic advantages: language identification in 55 languages and 45 encodings: for  indexing documents in many languages accurate segmentation in languages without spaces—chinese,  japanese, and korean—for greater precision
rosette also now supports lucidworks enterprise version 1.5, a new solr-based search solution development platform from lucid imagination.
connection to solr only requires a modification to the schema.xml and solrconfig.xml.
this linguistic plug-in delivers quality multilingual search results in over 40  asian, european, and middle eastern languages.
our technology has been tuned for high throughput and is highly scalable in the lucene and solr environment.
request an evaluation copy of rosette today.
presentation: building a global listening platform with solr presentation: language support, linguistics, and text analytics with solr basis technology’s rosette provides enterprise-quality linguistic analysis to apache lucene and solr.