thompson’s memo, which comes in the wake of his decision to fire over 2,000 employees last week, outlines the company’s new structure.
of  course, there’s no telling how long search will last, or whether yahoo  will pay even less attention to it than it does now (considering that bing has  been processing yahoo’s search queries since 2010).
is yahoo still relevant to search today, and if so, will  they still be in six months or one year?
apparently, everything having to do with search will fall under the  connections sub-unit of the consumer division.
this entry was posted ininternet marketing, seo copywriting, seo news.
the bottom line is that in terms of seo, you’ll be much better off optimizing for google, bing and even smaller private search engines like duckduckgo than for yahoo.
required fields are marked * name * website comment you may use these html tags and attributes:                categories
although yahoo obviously isn’t going to immediately admit otherwise, a cursory reading of thompson’s full memo indicates that search is far from yahoo’s top priority moving forward.
is yahoo still relevant to search today, and if so, will they still be in six months or one year?
bookmark  thepermalink.
this is interesting given that an estimated 1,800 employees at yahoo (out of about 14,000 total) are strictly devoted to search.
the connections team is charged with fundamentally re-imagining how we design and deliver the next generation of these foundational yahoo! experiences.”
in fact, search is only  mentioned a single time in the connections section of the memo.
should yahoo eventually decide to cut search altogether,  which is entirely possible given recentsearch market share reports, these  employees would presumably be going the same way as the 2,000 employees that  were laid off last week.
although yahoo obviously isn’t going to immediately admit otherwise,  a cursory reading of thompson’s full memo indicates that search is far  from yahoo’s top priority moving forward.
the bottom line is that in terms of seo, you’ll be much better off  optimizing for google, bing and even smaller private search engines like  duckduckgo than for yahoo.
according to a memo penned by yahoo ceo scott thompson and reported byallthingsd, those fears can be put to bed – at least for now.
according to a memo  penned by yahoo ceo scott thompson and reported byallthingsd, those fears can  be put to bed – at least for now.
just over a week ago, we reported that upcoming layoffs and restructuring could signal the end of yahoo’s search functionality.
after announcing that the division will be led by shashi seth, thompson says this: “the highest priority for shashi and his team will be to think well beyond how users search, communicate and share online today.
this is interesting given that  an estimated 1,800 employees at yahoo (out of about 14,000 total) are strictly  devoted to search.
after  announcing that the division will be led by shashi seth, thompson says this: “the highest priority for shashi and his team will be to think well  beyond how users search, communicate and share online today.
of course, there’s no telling how long search will last, or whether yahoo will pay even less attention to it than it does now (considering that bing has been processing yahoo’s search queries since 2010).
← new adwords features bolster local advertising leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published.
your email address will not be published.
is search still important to yahoo?
home - content customs writing services ← new  adwords features bolster local advertising yahoo to retain search after restructuring posted on april 11, 2012 by mikeq just over a week ago, we reported that upcoming layoffs and restructuring  could signal the end of yahoo’s search functionality.
the connections  team is charged with fundamentally re-imagining how we design and deliver the  next generation of these foundational yahoo! experiences.”
should yahoo eventually decide to cut search altogether, which is entirely possible given recentsearch market share reports, these employees would presumably be going the same way as the 2,000 employees that were laid off last week.
sound off in the comments below.
thompson’s memo, which comes in the wake of his decision to fire over  2,000 employees last week, outlines the company’s new structure.
starting on may 1st 2012, yahoo will be broken up into three major sections: apparently, everything having to do with search will fall under the connections sub-unit of the consumer division.
in fact, search is only mentioned a single time in the connections section of the memo.
bookmark thepermalink.
a brief look at yahoo’s new structure starting on may 1st 2012, yahoo will be broken up into three major sections: technology (for platforms and infrastructure) regions (for dealing with advertisers and revenue) consumer (which will be broken up into three sub-units:  commerce, connections and media)
required fields are marked * name * email * website comment you may use these html tags and attributes: