subscribe to one or all of them...they're free.subscribe!
tags: green, green truck, hybrid, work trucks january 2007, business fleet - feature gas vs. hybrid: a fleet analysis
yet there is much to  consider before taking the leap to fully battery-powered vehicles.
as media attention and public concern about climate  change mount, more and more organizations are paying attention to their impact  on the environment.
to: year 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004  2003 2002 2001 2000 month january february march april may june july august  september october november december browse by topic all topics leasing safety & accident remarketing fuel management mobility green fleet gps /  telematics maintenance vehicle research browse by date year 2012  2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 2000 month january  february march april may june july august september october november december most popular articles highest rated articles november 2010, business fleet - feature gm lays out the plan for fleet
access our career coaching services
as media attention and public concern about climate change mount, more and more organizations are paying attention to their impact on the environment.
search for fleet jobs.
in addition to the environmental benefits, medium- and heavy-duty hybrid truck tests show promise in stop-and-go situations and those that require auxiliary power generation in urban environments.
but will costs come down to make them feasible for general use?
employers post jobs & search top quality resumes.
tags: alternative fuels, environmentally friendly, green, green vehicles may 2007, business fleet - feature by chris brown under proposed legislation, many fleets in california would be penalized for simply buying the right work vehicle for the job.
access our  career coaching services job seekers post your resume & manage your job  search.
in july 2009, general motors was reborn with four core brands and an eye  toward the future.
since most companies replace approximately one third of their fleet vehicles each year, they can tailor selectors to favor more fuel-efficient vehicles, so long as they are able to fulfill the fleet application.
we offer e-newsletters that  deliver targeted news and information for the entire fleet industry.
how fleets are reacting to the cell phone ban 6 keys to an effective cell phone policy telematics drives big savings on commercial auto insurance where's my spare tire?
november 2010, business fleet - feature by chris brown
by chris brown an organization’s environmental “footprint” includes  direct emissions into the air or water, electricity consumption, materials use,  waste disposal and more.
in addition to the environmental benefits, medium- and heavy-duty hybrid  truck tests show promise in stop-and-go situations and those that require  auxiliary power generation in urban environments.
tags: environmentally friendly, green, spec'ing january 2008, business fleet - feature bakery goes green and saves green
search  browse search by  keyword search by date range (optional) from: year 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 2000  month january february march april may june july august september october  november december
tags: diesel-electric, green, nafa, national private truck council, national truck equipment association march 2008, business fleet - feature by kara ohngren and chris brown can you green your fleet and not break your budget?
tags: electric vehicle, fleet management, global electric  motorcars, green, neighborhood electric vehicles, nevs july 2007, business fleet - feature the green advantage
by staff the lifecycle cost experts at vincentric help put a price tag on greening  your fleet.
fleet job finder save time and money.
tags: diesel-electric, green, nafa, national private truck  council, national truck equipment association march 2008, business fleet - feature six steps to spec for green
view the latest enews driving force popular tags 2012-my alternative fuels biodiesel bmw cargo vans  closed-end leases diesel distracted driving dodge driver behavior driver safety  electric vehicle emissions environmentally friendly fleet car of the year fleet  leasing fleet management fleet truck of the year ford f-150
subscribe  to one or all of them...they're free.subscribe!
besides health issues, poor ergonomics is also a key contributor to preventable accidents.
what does that mean to you?
by mike antich a one-size-fits-all approach to truck specifications is an ergonomic minefield, which could have litigious consequences.
ford fusion hybrid  ford transit connect electric fuel fuel cards fuel economy fuel management  general motors corp.
view the latest enews driving force save time and money.
on friday, global payments announced a breach of its processing system and that as many as 1.5 million card numbers may have been stolen.
tags: general motors corp., green, telematics march 2010, business fleet - feature staples fleet tests diesel-electric viability by chad simon staples’ ongoing mission to green its fleet included a pilot program  for diesel-electric hybrid trucks — with mixed results.
tags: environmentally friendly, green march 2007, business fleet - feature by terry parkhurst
in this issue: here are some of the highlights: sign up for the trusted authority in the automotive industry copyright © 2012 business fleet.
tags: environmentally friendly, green, spec'ing january 2008, business fleet - feature by joan shim for rossmoor pastries, converting from gasoline-powered delivery vans to a fleet fueled by clean-burning compressed natural gas is saving the company $4,000 per month.
gm’s fleet chief, brian small, discusses how a leaner — and greener — gm plans to meet the needs of commercial buyers in the years to come.
in addition, there are increased field complaints about “less-than-ergonomic” upfit decisions.
over the weekend, visa removed global payments from its pci compliance list.
by joan shim for rossmoor pastries, converting from gasoline-powered delivery vans to a  fleet fueled by clean-burning compressed natural gas is saving the company  $4,000 per month.
gm’s fleet chief, brian small, discusses how a leaner  — and greener — gm plans to meet the needs of commercial buyers in  the years to come.
by chris brown $5.00
yet there is much to consider before taking the leap to fully battery-powered vehicles.
tags: environmentally friendly, green, natural gas vehicles january 2008, business fleet - feature can neighborhood electric vehicles work for your fleet?
tags: environmentally friendly, green, natural gas vehicles january 2008, business fleet - feature by chris brown, mike guardabascio with environmental benefits, low operating costs and flexibility of use, nevs could offer a viable alternative in your fleet.
we offer e-newsletters that deliver targeted news and information for the entire fleet industry.
tags: electric vehicle, fleet management, global electric motorcars, green, neighborhood electric vehicles, nevs july 2007, business fleet - feature by chris brown an organization’s environmental “footprint” includes direct emissions into the air or water, electricity consumption, materials use, waste disposal and more.
tags: green« previous 1
next » authoritative & targeted!
proactively resolving ergonomic issues can have a significant impact in reducing workers’ comp costs, improving productivity, and decreasing fatigue-induced driver errors.
by chris brown, mike guardabascio with environmental benefits, low operating costs and flexibility of use,  nevs could offer a viable alternative in your fleet.
in july 2009, general motors was reborn with four core brands and an eye toward the future.
tags: general motors corp., green, telematics march 2010, business fleet - feature by chad simon staples’ ongoing mission to green its fleet included a pilot program for diesel-electric hybrid trucks — with mixed results.
but, as many fleets have shown, where there is a will, there is a way to meet fleet sustainability goals, despite fiscal austerity.
residual  values route management sprinter telematics toyota toyota camry hybrid
tags: alternative fuels, environmentally friendly, green,  green vehicles may 2007, business fleet - feature clean car bill hurts fleets by chris brown under proposed legislation, many fleets in california would be penalized  for simply buying the right work vehicle for the job.
you can, by  spec’ing for function, price and gas mileage.
vincentric wright express zoomsafer news channels industry news executive fleet press release leasing  safety-accident-management remarketing fuel-management mobility green-fleet  gps-telematics maintenance vehicle-research article news which hybrids have the lowest cost of ownership?
tags: green « previous 1
but will costs come down to  make them feasible for general use?
global electric motorcars gps green hybrid hybrid electric  vehicles leasing lifecycle costs maintenance nafa navigation system  neighborhood electric vehicles nevs propane remarketing resale value
you can, by spec’ing for function, price and gas mileage.
by kara ohngren and chris brown can you green your fleet and not break your budget?
by chris brown ford’s west coast headquarters welcomed fleet customers to show off the all-new 2013 ford fusion, discuss hybrid, electric and ecoboost engine technologies, update plans for the lincoln brand and talk about ford’s residual value strategy.
by mike antich most fleets want to be environmentally friendly, but are often hamstrung by fiscal constraints when procuring greener vehicles.
tags: green, green truck, hybrid, work trucks january 2007, business fleet - feature by staff the lifecycle cost experts at vincentric help put a price tag on greening your fleet.
next » e-newsletter authoritative & targeted!
tags: environmentally friendly, green march 2007, business fleet - feature could your next work truck be a hybrid?