as the nation's first hybrid ferry, this boats mission is far  more important than its appearance.
for more information about booking a brunch, lunch or dinner cruise on a hornblower yacht and for special events and weddings please makeonline reservations or call 1.888.hornblower.
the  hornblower hybrid has five distinct areas for buffet and cocktail setup and  also allows for optimal viewing and mingling opportunities.
alcatraz cruises is pleased to partner with aquarium  of the bay, a local non-profit dedicated to creating experiences that inspire  conservation of san francisco bay and its watershed.
the hornblower hybrid has redefined the profile of vessels on the san francisco bay.
the discover the bay program is aligned with california state science standards for 6th grade – and is appropriate for students in 5th through 8th grade.
when the solar panels on top of the vessel absorb sunlight and energy is generated by the wind turbines, power is provided to charge 380 v dc batteries.
the discover the bay program is aligned with california  state science standards for 6th grade – and is appropriate for students  in 5th through 8th grade.
the hornblower hybrid is leading the way in environmentally friendly vessels and the potential to decrease our daily carbon foot print.
book a hornblower cruise cruise green the hornblower hybrid has redefined the profile of vessels on the san  francisco bay.
contact tegan firth at tfirth@alcatrazcruises.com or call 415-983-8208 for interviews and high resolution images.
lead by the  aquarium’s team of expert naturalists, this experience provides an  immersive learning experience with san francisco bay from above and below the  water.
join aquarium of the bay and alcatraz cruises for a unique, hands-on  educational experience.
for more information, call 1.888.hornblower.
it's called a hybrid because it uses energy  from solar, wind, grid electric, and tier 2 diesel generators to power the  vessel.
for more information on the hornblower hybrid: download the press release and fact sheet.
learning stations aboard the boat include: hands-on, educational activities bay food web & plankton exploration water chemistry
ferrying visitors from all over to world to alcatraz and angel island, the hybrid is also host to private charters and events.
the hornblower hybrid has five distinct areas for buffet and cocktail setup and also allows for optimal viewing and mingling opportunities.
for more information please send an email to getinvolved@respectourplanet.com.
it's called a hybrid because it uses energy from solar, wind, grid electric, and tier 2 diesel generators to power the vessel.
this provides you with flexibility to meet your event and group needs.
with a maximum capacity of  149 passengers for ferry service and up to 110 guests for a cocktail party, the  hornblower hybrid is ideal for any environmentally friendly event.
the vessel can operate on propulsion batteries  alone for over an hour providing a silent cruise around the bay.
as the nation's first hybrid ferry, this boats mission is far more important than its appearance.
alcatraz cruises is pleased to partner with aquarium of the bay, a local non-profit dedicated to creating experiences that inspire conservation of san francisco bay and its watershed.
with a maximum capacity of 149 passengers for ferry service and up to 110 guests for a cocktail party, the hornblower hybrid is ideal for any environmentally friendly event.
additional power is provided by the diesel generator for more efficient movement through the water.
this provides you  with flexibility to meet your event and group needs.
during this 5 hour program, your students will learn about the ecology of  san francisco bay, the history of these waters and the surrounding golden gate  national recreation area, impacts of climate change to this region, innovative  energy saving technologies, and personal actions everyone can do to protect  this vital resource.
lead by the aquarium’s team of expert naturalists, this experience provides an immersive learning experience with san francisco bay from above and below the water.
the hornblower hybrid, our environmental flagship, serves many purposes for alcatraz cruises.
the boat bow main salon aft deck solar deck pilot house
join aquarium of the bay and alcatraz cruises for a unique, hands-on educational experience.
ferrying visitors from all over to world to alcatraz and  angel island, the hybrid is also host to private charters and events.
during this 5 hour program, your students will learn about the ecology of san francisco bay, the history of these waters and the surrounding golden gate national recreation area, impacts of climate change to this region, innovative energy saving technologies, and personal actions everyone can do to protect this vital resource.
when the solar panels on top of the vessel absorb sunlight and energy is  generated by the wind turbines, power is provided to charge 380 v dc batteries.
learning stations aboard the boat include: program package includes: discover the bay flyer
our new discover the bay program combines the experience of learning about san francisco bay onboard the hornblower hybrid, the nation’s first hybrid ferry, with a guided tour of aquarium of the bay’s exhibits with more than 20,000 local marine animals.
charter the hornblower hybrid the hornblower hybrid, our environmental flagship, serves many purposes for  alcatraz cruises.
additional power is provided by the diesel generator for more efficient  movement through the water.
our new discover the bay program combines the  experience of learning about san francisco bay onboard the hornblower hybrid,  the nation’s first hybrid ferry, with a guided tour of aquarium of the  bay’s exhibits with more than 20,000 local marine animals.
for more information about visiting alcatraz or to book tickets please make online reservations.
the hornblower  hybrid is leading the way in environmentally friendly vessels and the potential  to decrease our daily carbon foot print.
the vessel can operate on propulsion batteries alone for over an hour providing a silent cruise around the bay.