written primarily by edmunds.com's female editors, it offers comprehensive buying advice as well as articles specifically focused on primary areas of concern and interest, including vehicle safety and alternative fuel vehicles.
to read  the full article, visitwww.edmunds.com/women.
its comprehensive set of data, tools and services, including edmunds.comtrue market value® pricing, is generated by edmunds.com information solutions and is licensed to third parties.
edmunds.com is the premier online resource for automotive information.
written primarily by edmunds.com's female  editors, it offers comprehensive buying advice as well as articles specifically  focused on primary areas of concern and interest, including vehicle safety and  alternative fuel vehicles.
for its newwomen's car guide (www.edmunds.com/women) section, edmunds.com, the premier online automotive resource, spoke to women across the u.s. to learn the benefits and drawbacks of owning these eco-friendly cars, presented in a three-part series entitled "how far would you go for the planet?
women are at the vanguard of putting these new technologies through their everyday paces.
" in "how far would you go for the planet?," site visitors can tap into the experiences of women who are driving the natural gas-powered honda civic gx; the most popular hybrid electric, the toyota prius; and the new generation of clean burning diesels, the volkswagen golf and jeep liberty cdi.
readers can hear from women who are committed to using biodiesel — made from vegetable products — to fuel their cars, as well as women who own and operate the "biofuel oasis," which sells only biodiesel.
edmunds.com was named "best car research" site by forbes asap, has been selected by consumers as the "most useful web site" according to every j.d. power and associates new autoshopper.com studysm and was ranked first in the survey of car-shopping web sites as reported by the wall street journal.
you must be signed in to post a comment.
to read the full article, visitwww.edmunds.com/women.
about edmunds.com, inc. (www.edmunds.com)
the guide asks, "who do you want to be?", and creatively arranges answers in content categories: "a smart shopper," "a bargain hunter," "a strong negotiator," "a family manager," "a safety expert," and "a green consumer."
view more press release articles
the company is headquartered in santa monica, calif. and maintains a satellite office outside detroit.
about the women's car guide (www.edmunds.com/women) the edmunds.comwomen's car guide empowers women in all areas of the vehicle  purchase and ownership experience.
included in the women's car guide is feedback from female edmunds.com users about their own cars (consumer reviews and ratings) and headlines relevant to women.
published: 09/30/2005 updated: 11/26/2007email print save for immediate release santa monica, calif. — september 29, 2005 — natural gas.
edmunds.com also publishes a high-speed, on-screen car magazine calledinside line available free atwww.insideline.com.
sign in to comment edmunds automotive networkedmunds.com edmunds insideline corporate communicationsjeannine fallon/pamela morris/aaron lewis more on edmunds explore edmunds site map | glossary | inside line | auto shows | about mobile | call edmunds toll-free © edmunds inc.
" "women are very sensitive to their impact on the environment," said joanne helperin, senior features editor for edmunds.com.
"and an  increasing number of women are interested in purchasing 'green' vehicles for  other, more practical reasons, including significantly better mileage, access  to free parking or express driving lanes and significant tax incentives.
the guide asks, "who do you want to be?",  and creatively arranges answers in content categories: "a smart  shopper," "a bargain hunter," "a strong negotiator,"  "a family manager," "a safety expert," and "a green  consumer."
" "women are very sensitive to their impact on the environment,"  said joanne helperin, senior features editor for edmunds.com.
readers can hear from women who are committed to using biodiesel — made  from vegetable products — to fuel their cars, as well as women who own  and operate the "biofuel oasis," which sells only biodiesel.
additionally, there are links to discussion forums where women can exchange advice and stories.
about the women's car guide (www.edmunds.com/women) the edmunds.comwomen's car guide empowers women in all areas of the vehicle purchase and ownership experience.
women are at the vanguard of putting  these new technologies through their everyday paces.
edmunds.com  also publishes a high-speed, on-screen car magazine calledinside line available free atwww.insideline.com.
additionally, there are links to discussion forums  where women can exchange advice and stories.
" in "how far would you go for the planet?," site visitors can tap  into the experiences of women who are driving the natural gas-powered honda  civic gx; the most popular hybrid electric, the toyota prius; and the new  generation of clean burning diesels, the volkswagen golf and jeep liberty cdi.
for its newwomen's car  guide (www.edmunds.com/women) section, edmunds.com, the premier online  automotive resource, spoke to women across the u.s. to learn the benefits and  drawbacks of owning these eco-friendly cars, presented in a three-part series  entitled "how far would you go for the planet?
for example, the company supplies content for the auto sections  of nytimes.com, aol, about.com and ign.com, provides weekly data to automotive  news and delivers monthly data reports to wall street analysts.
for immediate release edmunds women's car guide finds women eagerly adopting new environmentally  friendly car technologies santa monica, calif. — september 29, 2005 — natural gas.
included in the women's car guide is feedback from female  edmunds.com users about their own cars (consumer reviews and ratings) and  headlines relevant to women.
edmunds.com was named "best car  research" site by forbes asap, has been selected by consumers as the  "most useful web site" according to every j.d. power and associates  new autoshopper.com studysm and was ranked first in the survey of car-shopping  web sites as reported by the wall street journal.
the company is headquartered  in santa monica, calif. and maintains a satellite office outside detroit.
for example, the company supplies content for the auto sections of nytimes.com, aol, about.com and ign.com, provides weekly data to automotive news and delivers monthly data reports to wall street analysts.
its comprehensive  set of data, tools and services, including edmunds.comtrue market value®  pricing, is generated by edmunds.com information solutions and is licensed to  third parties.
about edmunds.com, inc. (www.edmunds.com) edmunds.com  is the premier online resource for automotive information.
"and an increasing number of women are interested in purchasing 'green' vehicles for other, more practical reasons, including significantly better mileage, access to free parking or express driving lanes and significant tax incentives.