research your charging options plug-in electric vehicles are great, provided there are charging stations available.
posted by cfitzgerald on mar 17, 2012 in article, auto, media type | 0 comments thinking about a more environmentally friendly vehicle this st. patrick’s day?
if you work within 35 miles of where you live, you can probably get away with charging overnight at home, but if you work further than that, you’ll need to investigate what charging stations are available.
a hybrid vehicle is often more  expensive than a conventionally powered car, so don’t buy one for the  fuel savings.
it will take years to recoup your investment.
a hybrid vehicle is often more expensive than a conventionally powered car, so don’t buy one for the fuel savings.
plug-in hybrid  and fully electric cars are eligible for a federal tax credit up to $7,500.
clean diesel power forget the days when diesel  engines were dirty, smelly slowpokes clogging up highway.
instead, buy it  because you’re committed to burning less fuel on your daily commute.
visit with us today to learn more about the environmentally friendly vehicles we have to offer.
keep these considerations in mind: hybrid or conventional gas engine?
tax credits currently, the federal government does not  offer a tax credit for clean diesel or hybrid-powered vehicles.
instead, buy it because you’re committed to burning less fuel on your daily commute.
there are many  choices of hybrid vehicles on the road today, but there are also cars powered  by conventional gas engines that offer amazing fuel economy, super-low  emissions and are a blast to drive, too.
modern diesel engines  are clean, efficient, affordable and powerful.
tax credits currently, the federal government does not offer a tax credit for clean diesel or hybrid-powered vehicles.
schedule a test drive
visit with us today to learn more about the environmentally friendly  vehicles we have to offer.
there are many choices of hybrid vehicles on the road today, but there are also cars powered by conventional gas engines that offer amazing fuel economy, super-low emissions and are a blast to drive, too.
clean diesel power forget the days when diesel engines were dirty, smelly slowpokes clogging up highway.
if you work  within 35 miles of where you live, you can probably get away with charging  overnight at home, but if you work further than that, you’ll need to  investigate what charging stations are available.
also, check for any tax credit offered by the state in which you plan to  register your car.
also, check for any tax credit offered by the state in which you plan to register your car.
modern diesel engines are clean, efficient, affordable and powerful.
required fields are marked * name * email * website comment you may use these html tags and attributes:              designed by elegant wordpress themes | powered by wordpress
research your charging options plug-in electric  vehicles are great, provided there are charging stations available.
the  drivin’ of the green: 5 thoughts for an environmentally friendly car the drivin’ of the green: 5 thoughts for an environmentally friendly  car posted by cfitzgerald on mar 17, 2012 in article, auto, media type | 0  comments thinking about a more environmentally friendly vehicle this st.  patrick’s day?
understand the math
and  keep in mind that it’s a taxcredit not a rebate at the time of  sale.
schedule a test drive cforms contact form by delicious:days your email address will not be published.
and keep in mind that it’s a taxcredit not a rebate at the time of sale.
plug-in hybrid and fully electric cars are eligible for a federal tax credit up to $7,500.