after 2012 all new buses coming into service will be hybrid.
combining a conventional engine with an electric motor, hybrid buses are quieter, cleaner and more fuel efficient than diesel buses.
what is a hybrid bus?
transport blog making london’s buses more environmentally friendly red buses are going green!
is quote?:   not quote hybrid buses reduce emissions of local pollutants and c02 by at least 30%  compared to conventional diesel buses.
there are also plans for buses to be fitted with nox (a mixture of nitric oxide  and nitrogen dioxide) reducing technology to meet air quality targets for  greater london by 2015, find out more: hybrid buses - tfl message / quote  message/quote: hybrid buses reduce emissions of local pollutants and c02 by at least 30%  compared to conventional diesel buses.
after  2012 all new buses coming into service will be hybrid.
other green bus innovations five hydrogen buses will be trialled for a period of three years from 2010.
with continuous charging of the batteries,  the vehicle gets more miles to the gallon and can go further than a  conventional diesel bus.
when the vehicle brakes, energy which would normally be wasted is recycled  and used to charge the batteries.
with continuous charging of the batteries, the vehicle gets more miles to the gallon and can go further than a conventional diesel bus.
the new bus for london – a redesign of the city’s famous red bus – is also expected to feature hybrid technology and drivers will be trained in fuel-efficient driving techniques.
when will hybrid buses hit the streets?
there are also plans for buses to be fitted with nox (a mixture of nitric oxide and nitrogen dioxide) reducing technology to meet air quality targets for greater london by 2015, find out more: hybrid buses - tfl message / quote message/quote: hybrid buses reduce emissions of local pollutants and c02 by at least 30% compared to conventional diesel buses.
the new bus for london  – a redesign of the city’s famous red bus – is also expected  to feature hybrid technology and drivers will be trained in fuel-efficient  driving techniques.
when the vehicle brakes, energy which would normally be wasted is recycled and used to charge the batteries.
hybrid buses are being rolled out across london, with 300 by 2012.
share with - facebook - del.icio.us - digg - twitter - stumbleupon - more transport-related - events / meetings - faqs - press releases - mayor’s transport strategy - transport for london - hybrid buses - tfl
making london’s buses more environmentally friendly | greater london authority skip to main content skip to accessibility - jobs - procurement - faqs - contact us information for: register login - home - this week - mayoral decisions - latest publications - city hall blog - priorities - art & culture - business & economy - championing london - employment & skills - environment - equalities - health - housing - london 2012 - london prepared - planning - policing & crime - transparency - transport - volunteering - team london - young people - get involved - a summer like no other - festivals & celebrations - exhibitions & other events - workshops & conferences - public meetings - volunteering - team london - consultations - submit your photos - who runs london - londoners - greater london authority - mayor of london - the london assembly - london boroughs - central government - city hall - the building - visitor information - venue hire - location map search transport - vision and strategy - working in partnership - investing in transport - cycling revolution - by the river - green transport - electric vehicles - hybrid buses - low emission zone - smarter travel - smoothing traffic flow - making walking count - transport blog making london’s buses more environmentally friendly red buses are going green!
all new london’s buses will be hybrid from  2012 which will result in a quieter and cleaner city.
this week - mayoral decisions - latest publications - city hall blog priorities - art & culture - business & economy - championing london - employment & skills - environment - equalities - health - housing - london 2012 - london prepared - planning - policing & crime - transparency - transport - volunteering - team london - young people get involved - a summer like no other - festivals & celebrations - exhibitions & other events - workshops & conferences - public meetings - volunteering - team london - consultations - submit your photos who runs london - londoners - greater london authority - mayor of london - the london assembly - london boroughs - central government city hall - the building - visitor information - venue hire - location map - terms & conditions - privacy policy - accessibility - freedom of information - site map
combining a conventional engine with an electric motor, hybrid buses are  quieter, cleaner and more fuel efficient than diesel buses.
is quote?: not quote hybrid buses reduce emissions of local pollutants and c02 by at least 30% compared to conventional diesel buses.
all new london’s buses will be hybrid from 2012 which will result in a quieter and cleaner city.