we could drastically reduce our reliance on petroleum by going the diesel hybrid route.
hybrid-diesels are indeed a great idea within the umbrella of "each person should be moving 1,200-3,600 pounds of glass, steel, rubber and plastic everwhere they go".
when chrysler showed  the dodge intrepid diesel-electric hybrid a few years ago, i was impressed.
thedieselnet site has more info, but some of it is only available to paid subscribers.
companies like asda in the uk are already using chicken fat from their cooked chickens to fuel their trucks, thereby saving money and tax, and helping the environment.
(i would assume that "clean" means non-cancer causing, but maybe i'm wrong there too.)
even better than growing crops to produce fuel, is using a waste product  that would otherwise be of little profit for the meat industry, and be an  environmental problem to dispose of.
the irony is that diesel hybrids could be far more efficient and clean than anything now on the market, without any leaps in technology.
i have friends in england who have been useing used cooking oil for quit some time in thier cars.
for those of you familiar only with the sooty smoke belching from older big-rig trucks or the foul smells from 1970s diesel cars, the question may come as a surprise.
it's the only way trains could get enough torque to start moving, but it is also exactly the model used by todays 2nd-gen hybrid autos.
european automakers are testing the water to see if american buyers, long  ago turned off by earlier diesel technology, would be willing to give diesels  another chance.
european automakers are testing the water to see if american buyers, long ago turned off by earlier diesel technology, would be willing to give diesels another chance.
diesel-electric hybrid buses are available and have been rolled out in (among other places)seattle, washington and apeldoorn, in the netherlands.
there's no reason why we should  be.
studies by the australian government show a significant  reduction in harmful emissions with ulsd.
most miles driven are sub-urban and urban, and an effient people mover is what is needed.
i believe there is a  company working on this product called the e-cycle posted by:
we need to begin moving as fast as we can towards sustainability now, that doesn't mean we must live less comfortably, but it does mean we need to think more about the consequences of all our decisions.
vw  offers three diesel models in the us right now, all of which get about 40mpg  city/45 highway: golf, new beetle and jetta.
the diesel jetta also comes in a wagon version.
as far as the drawbacks of diesel are concerned, they have been taken care  of.
the manufacturers should take advantage of the wait to license the toyota hybrid system (asford did earlier this year) and integrate it with their advanced clean diesel engines.
let's get that intrepid hybrid out of the vault, update the tech, and  start putting them on the street!!
in the forums i've seen online, diesel enthusiasts and  hybrid enthusiasts seem to always be at odds.
i hope this is good infomation for you.
it has good links to material  from other sources, though.
they get thiers use oil from restaurant so does walmart,sams  club also chines restaurant.
you take a gasoline engine with the best tuning and this is cleaner.
here was a full sized car that was getting better fuel efficiency than most  small cars and was a lot more convenient to drive than other alternative fuel  vehicles.
the mileage being clocked, hard miles in the boonies as well as highway, is 350,000 kilometers fairly trouble free with minimal exhaust pollution.
while biodiesel, petroleum from thermal depolymerisation http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/thermal_depolymerization , and enzyme hydrolysis of plant cellulosehttp://www.purevisiontechnology.com/technology/hydrolysis.html all provide alternates to traditional petroleum ,there won't be enough to replace our currently wastefull usage.
kerosene may not be readily available in the us or other locations.
it's particularly notable that the results in the mit study were based on the assumption that the diesel fuel would be petroleum-based.
thedieselnet site has more info, but  some of it is only available to paid subscribers.
i think its important to mention  the aspect of diesel eletric hybrid motorcycle as well.
comfortable, powerful sedans could get  upwards of 80 miles per gallonand be carbon-neutral.
in 2006 this is supposed to change due to federal regulation, so at  that point vw and other companies could sell these types of cars in the us.
and we could do this with directly with  electric energy (the advantage being that we could generate this with  [currently affordable] wind power, solar power and or tidal power).
cars turn thier drivers into  virtual supermen, allowing them to run at 65+ miles per hour for hours at a  time while carrying extra thousands of pounds.
biodiesel is synthesized entirely from plants -- usually soy in the us, and canola/rapeseed in europe -- and is therefore carbon-neutral: the soy/canola grown to create biodiesel pulls from the air the same amount of carbon the eventual combustion produces.
locomotives, submarines and many other types of vehicles have long used diesel-electric hybrid technology in one form or another.
i am interested in the bio-diesel technology because the cleaner the burn the happier i am for the enviroment.
thank you, sarah brown
transportation (very, very expensive, very, very ineficient public  transportation) in view of the cost of roads, petroleum subsidies,  environmental damage, and loss of limb and life.
as a nzer, i'm excited by my  government's move toward re-using our meat industry by-product - tallow - as a  fuel.
the us$1.00 is valued at tts6.30 to give a  comparison or us$0.24 per liter.
posted by: howard on 4 jun 04
from what i understand it gets around 80 mpg and is about the size of a mini cooper, and costs quite a bit less.
diesels operate most  effeciently when run at a constant rpm and in a given temp range, both of  which fit the hybrid model very well.
i hope  more people will cotton on to this soon.
posted by:  jamais cascio on 8
yes, we'll still need construction vehicles, delivery vehicles, emergency vehicles, rural vehicles, farm vehicles and some will want recreational vehicles, but that is a small fraction of the hundreds of millions of vehicles that are on the road every year.
we are  a nonprofit website, and are able to continue our operations largely through  your donations.
we need to begin moving as fast as we  can towards sustainability now, that doesn't mean we must live less  comfortably, but it does mean we need to think more about the consequences of  all our decisions.
vw offers three diesel models in the us right now, all of which get about 40mpg city/45 highway: golf, new beetle and jetta.
they are all really nice cars.
this is one way that hybrid technology could really show its strengths: a hybrid-svo could warm up the svo with an electric heater while running on batteries at lower speeds, much like the current prius does.
this is one way that hybrid technology could really  show its strengths: a hybrid-svo could warm up the svo with an electric heater  while running on batteries at lower speeds, much like the current prius does.
stylish sedans coupling the power of a diesel engine with  extreme fuel efficiency better than anything coming out of japan -- dealers  wouldn't be able to keep them in stock.
vw double-insulates the engine cage to make sure that noise is sufficiently  dampened, and their are scrubbers on the exhaust to minimize the soot.
such a system could easily use regular diesel and biodiesel, as well.)
the exhaust is  perfectly clean.
here, kero was cheaper than diesel but the price was raised earlier this year to make them equal at tt$1.50 per liter.
combining the power of diesel engines with the efficiency of hybrid  technologies can have terrific payoffs.
i'd like to point out that it's not only vege oil that can be used in diesel cars.
i do not comprehend url.
companies like asda in the uk are already  using chicken fat from their cooked chickens to fuel their trucks, thereby  saving money and tax, and helping the environment.
in europe, where advanced-technology "clean" diesel autos are one-third to one-half of the auto market and growing, some diesel cars already get mileage roughly equivalent to hybrids, so i suspect there's simply less demand.
biodiesel is synthesized  entirely from plants -- usually soy in the us, and canola/rapeseed in europe --  and is therefore carbon-neutral: the soy/canola grown to create biodiesel pulls  from the air the same amount of carbon the eventual combustion produces.
the mileage being  clocked, hard miles in the boonies as well as highway, is 350,000 kilometers  fairly trouble free with minimal exhaust pollution.
the true cost of gas or diesel is easily greater than $5 a gallon (when  federal corperate subsidies to oil companies and federal defence dollars used  directly to protect us oil interests are included).
these fuels are referred to by the percentage of biodiesel in the mix, from b5 (five percent bio) all the way to b100 (straight biodiesel); b20 is a relatively common mix.
everyday there is evidence that  people are not responsible enough to be those supermen.
posted by: jess macfarlane on  7 jun 04 i found the article extremely stimulating.
advances in technology since then should have brought the  price premium more in line with peoples wallets now so this is the time,  chrysler.
biodiesel is available both straight or in mixes with regular -- and, up until recently, somewhat less expensive -- oil-based diesel.
my friend say that there trucks over there also use the cooking oil sam  club, walmart etc:.
i hope more people will cotton on to this soon.
brian, clean road diesel (also known as ultra low sulfur diesel) is limited to particulate density of 30ppm, less than 10% of particulate density of standard road diesel; future efforts can bring that down to 15ppm.
i found the article extremely stimulating.
the combination of modern clean diesel engines, prius-style serial hybrid-electric systems, and  biodiesel/vegetable oil fuels could provide amazing mileage, cleaner air, and  vastly reduced petroleum dependency.
svo, or "straight vegetable oil," can gum  up the engine at lower temperatures, so there aresvo-conversion kits available  for diesel vehicles which use a small amount of regular diesel or biodiesel to  warm up the engine first.
i am interested in the bio-diesel technology because the cleaner the burn  the happier i am for the enviroment.
posted by:  howard on 4 jun 04 bio-diesel could forstall the ever depleating oil reserves said to be  overwelmed by demand by 2016.
the production of biodiesel in large enough quantities to sustain a  transportation network would certainly involve agribusiness.
the  manufacturers should take advantage of the wait to license the toyota hybrid  system (asford did earlier this year) and integrate it with their advanced  clean diesel engines.
and  scrubbing the exhaust is unnecessary when using the high-grade diesel fuels.
what kinds of carcinogens and mutagens are present in these forms of diesel?
what studies have been made to show either a total lack or dramatic reduction in both?
in the us, the  diesel fuel available in most locations remains the old, dirty, high-sulfur  variety, so a hybrid diesel actually wouldn't be a significant improvement in  emissions; once low-sulfur regulations take effect in 2006, this may change.
posted by: jennifer on  3 jun 04 when i hear the word "diesel", i automatically think carcinogenic  and mutagenic particulates in the exhaust.
here, kero was  cheaper than diesel but the price was raised earlier this year to make them  equal at tt$1.50 per liter.
diesel engines are much simpler than gasoline engines, will burn about  anything, and use standard fuels which require much less refining than  gasoline, and are safer to store and transport.
hi i am looking for a kit to change my car from gas to diesel.
there is so much opportunity to improve the environment while boosting business at the same time.
everyday there is evidence that people are not responsible enough to be those supermen.
it has good links to material from other sources, though.
for those interested in the effeciency of diesel/electric hybrids at the  locomotive scale, there is a nice simple overview at: http://science.howstuffworks.com/diesel-locomotive.htm i am extremely interested in diesel hybrid cars.
we could drastically reduce our reliance on petroleum by going the  diesel hybrid route.
diesel engines are much simpler than gasoline engines, will burn about anything, and use standard fuels which require much less refining than gasoline, and are safer to store and transport.
most miles driven are sub-urban and urban, and an effient  people mover is what is needed.
you may also find our other pieces ontools, models and ideas for building a better future useful.
my friend say that there trucks over there also use the cooking oil sam club, walmart etc:.
from my addres you will realise that i am a friend of the enviroment using solar, wind and water as alternative renewable energy sources and encouraging others to do the same.
there's no reason why we should be.
as for  autos, ford, gm, and daimler-chryslereach built prototype diesel hybrids a few  years ago which got mileage in the 70-80 mpg range.
but agribiz is not  the sole catalyst for biodiesel research; as i indicated in the post, the  carbon-neutral nature of biodiesel, along with the simplicity of its  production, make it a much more sustainable fuel resource.biodiesel.org has  some info, but they do seem to be allied with big ag.
most commercial products could be delivered to  within a couple miles of thier final destination by rail, just as fast and more  efficiently than they are now.
the carmakers may want to wait for a couple of years; the 2006  change-over to clean diesel will make diesel vehicles much more attractive.
diesel-hybrid-electrics would be an obvious positive development.
rider a biodiesel-based, ultra-efficient hybrid-diesel automobile & transportation system would give a putative hydrogen economy a serious challenge, especially since the infrastructure changes required are far less dramatic, the necessary technology far less speculative, and the severence of ties to petroleum nations and industries far more complete.
posted by: jamais cascio on 4 jun 04 the vw lupo (a diesel) already has some elements of hybrid technology,  including a continuous automatic transmission and electric motor for lower  rpms.
i'd like to point out that it's  not only vege oil that can be used in diesel cars.
in 2006 this is supposed to change due to federal regulation, so at that point vw and other companies could sell these types of cars in the us.
here was a full sized car that was getting better fuel efficiency than most small cars and was a lot more convenient to drive than other alternative fuel vehicles.
posted by: carl  youngblood on 4 jun 04 diesel engines are perfectly suited for hybrids.
diesel hybrids turned out to be much better  than gasoline/gasoline-hybrid cars, and highly competitive with the best  hydrogen fuel cell systems (even assuming optimistic fuel cell vehicle  development).
avariety of companies supply biodiesel around the world; adventurous types can even make biodiesel at home, using vegetable oil.
from my addres you will realise that i am a friend of the enviroment using  solar, wind and water as alternative renewable energy sources and encouraging  others to do the same.
most commercial products could be delivered to within a couple miles of thier final destination by rail, just as fast and more efficiently than they are now.
comfortable, powerful sedans could get upwards of 80 miles per gallonand be carbon-neutral.
cars turn thier drivers into virtual supermen, allowing them to run at 65+ miles per hour for hours at a time while carrying extra thousands of pounds.
the only things holding it back then was emissions, but now that we  have low sulfur diesel being mandated by washington that hurdle should be  cleared, and extra cost.
thank you, posted by: sarah m. brown on 22 apr 06 email
it's certainly not that diesel hybrids are somehow impossible.
what kinds of carcinogens and mutagens are present in these forms  of diesel?
my friend strain the used oil then puts it in thier cars and winter they use the diesel.
stylish sedans coupling the power of a diesel engine with extreme fuel efficiency better than anything coming out of japan -- dealers wouldn't be able to keep them in stock.
in the forums i've seen online, diesel enthusiasts and hybrid enthusiasts seem to always be at odds.
i reside in trinidad in the caribbean and purchased a mitsubishi 4wd l200 4 door pickup with 2.5l normally aspirated diesel and the only way they come here is with a manual trans.
but modern diesel engine design coupled with the much-cleaner types of diesel fuel increasingly available (particularly "biodiesel") make diesel vehicles a surprisingly environmentally-friendly choice.
please email me info, as to where i can get the kit to conver.
i believe there is a company working on this product called the e-cycle lawson, i wrote about the e-cycle earlier: easy (and green)
but the best hydrogen fuel cell vehicles will require entirely new hydrogen production, storage, and fueling facilities; reformed-gasoline fuel cells (which are more likely to be used, as they would not require the wholesale replacement of fueling stations) fared much worse.
one of the  compelling aspects of diesel engines is their ability to run onbiodiesel, a  fuel which does not actually contain any petroleum.
kerosene  may not be readily available in the us or other locations.
yes,  we'll still need construction vehicles, delivery vehicles, emergency vehicles,  rural vehicles, farm vehicles and some will want recreational vehicles, but  that is a small fraction of the hundreds of millions of vehicles that are on  the road every year.
but the automakers opted not to produce them, as the cars couldn't meet strict air pollution rules while running on the sulfur-laden american diesel.
posted by: m. rocky rampersad on 11 jun 04 rocky, those sound like spectacular results.
driving your car is public
but personally i think that with current technology the automobile as the primary form of personal transportation is foolish.
journey to forever may be more to your liking.
the diesel jetta also comes in a  wagon version.
it's particularly notable that the results in the mit study were based on  the assumption that the diesel fuel would be petroleum-based.
one of the compelling aspects of diesel engines is their ability to run onbiodiesel, a fuel which does not actually contain any petroleum.
i believe there is a company working on this product called the e-cycle i found the article extremely stimulating.
i have  friends in england who have been useing used cooking oil for quit some time in  thier cars.
which is why i hate being stuck behind a diesel vehicle, be it a truck, bus, or mercedes 300d. i admit i'm completely ignorant of biodiesel and so-called "clean diesel".
studies by the australian government show a significant reduction in harmful emissions with ulsd.
even better than growing crops to produce fuel, is using a waste product that would otherwise be of little profit for the meat industry, and be an environmental problem to dispose of.
the true cost of gas or diesel is easily greater than $5 a gallon (when federal corperate subsidies to oil companies and federal defence dollars used directly to protect us oil interests are included).
how can i learn more?
the carmakers may want to wait for a couple of years; the 2006 change-over to clean diesel will make diesel vehicles much more attractive.
lawson  on 7 jun 04 i found the article extremely stimulating.
you take a gasoline engine with the best tuning and this is  cleaner.
we drill oil and have refineries and ship the products overseas.
you may also find our other pieces ontools, models and ideas  for building a better future useful.
as far as the drawbacks of diesel are concerned, they have been taken care of.
unfortunatly for us political preasure by lobying corporations will forstall reason.
advances in technology since then should have brought the price premium more in line with peoples wallets now so this is the time, chrysler.
for many years diesel trains have been driven by a large diesel engine  generating electricity to charge a battery bank turning electric motors to  drive the train.
posted by: joseph burke on 18 jun 04
for those interested in the effeciency of diesel/electric hybrids at the locomotive scale, there is a nice simple overview at: http://science.howstuffworks.com/diesel-locomotive.htm i am extremely interested in diesel hybrid cars.
posted by: frank mancuso on 6 jun 04 news of a diesel hybrid is very exciting.
biodiesel is available both straight or in mixes with regular -- and, up until  recently, somewhat less expensive -- oil-based diesel.
journey to forever may be  more to your liking.
the irony is that diesel hybrids could be far more efficient and clean than  anything now on the market, without any leaps in technology.
for the past 5+ years the engine has been operating with a fuel mix of 25%  dirty sulphur laden diesel and 75% kerosene - a1 jet fuel.
there was something like a $12,000 price premium  tacked on to the cost of a base intrepid and not many people would shell out  that kind of money.
posted by: jeff wilsbacher on 14 jun 04 locomotives, submarines and many other types of vehicles have long used  diesel-electric hybrid technology in one form or another.
diesels operate most effeciently when run at a constant rpm and in a given temp range, both of which fit the hybrid model very well.
which is why i hate being stuck  behind a diesel vehicle, be it a truck, bus, or mercedes 300d. i admit i'm completely ignorant of biodiesel and so-called "clean  diesel".
when i hear biodiesel i think, argibusiness looking for new markets.
the combination of modern clean diesel engines, prius-style serial hybrid-electric systems, and biodiesel/vegetable oil fuels could provide amazing mileage, cleaner air, and vastly reduced petroleum dependency.
worldchanging denver diesel hybrid  electric cars now!
there is so much opportunity  to improve the environment while boosting business at the same time.
we are a nonprofit website, and are able to continue our operations largely through your donations.
but the best hydrogen fuel cell vehicles will require entirely  new hydrogen production, storage, and fueling facilities; reformed-gasoline  fuel cells (which are more likely to be used, as they would not require the  wholesale replacement of fueling stations) fared much worse.
these fuels are referred  to by the percentage of biodiesel in the mix, from b5 (five percent bio) all  the way to b100 (straight biodiesel); b20 is a relatively common mix.
avariety  of companies supply biodiesel around the world; adventurous types can even make  biodiesel at home, using vegetable oil.
i wish they would sell them here in the us but the quality of our diesel is too low.
for the past 5+ years the engine has been operating with a fuel mix of 25% dirty sulphur laden diesel and 75% kerosene - a1 jet fuel.
if you find this article valuable, please support worldchanging.
by the way, in all these years, nothing has had to be touched on the engine besides the replacement of the coolant pump 2 years ago.
there was something like a $12,000 price premium tacked on to the cost of a base intrepid and not many people would shell out that kind of money.
rocky, those sound like spectacular results.
unfortunatly for us political preasure by lobying  corporations will forstall reason.
jamais cascio, 3 jun 04
a diesel hybrid would resolve that divide.
but the automakers opted  not to produce them, as the cars couldn't meet strict air pollution rules while  running on the sulfur-laden american diesel.
brian dear on 3 jun 04 brian, clean road diesel (also known as ultra low sulfur diesel) is limited to  particulate density of 30ppm, less than 10% of particulate density of standard  road diesel; future efforts can bring that down to 15ppm.
let's get that intrepid hybrid out of the vault, update the tech, and start putting them on the street!!
combining the power of diesel engines with the efficiency of hybrid technologies can have terrific payoffs.
(vegetable oil can be used to run diesel engines directly, although doing so can be somewhat risky.
the exhaust is perfectly clean.
as for autos, ford, gm, and daimler-chryslereach built prototype diesel hybrids a few years ago which got mileage in the 70-80 mpg range.
how come nobody sells a hybrid diesel car?
but agribiz is not the sole catalyst for biodiesel research; as i indicated in the post, the carbon-neutral nature of biodiesel, along with the simplicity of its production, make it a much more sustainable fuel resource.biodiesel.org has some info, but they do seem to be allied with big ag.
and that doesn't even consider biodiesel.
i reside in trinidad in the caribbean and purchased a mitsubishi 4wd l200 4  door pickup with 2.5l normally aspirated diesel and the only way they come here  is with a manual trans.
last year, mit'slaboratory for energy and the environment produced a study (pdf) comparing total lifecycle energy efficiency and greenhouse emissions (including use, production, fuel production, and eventual disposal) of idealized advanced internal combustion, hybrid, and fuel cell vehicles.
but personally i think that with current technology  the automobile as the primary form of personal transportation is foolish.
in the us, the diesel fuel available in most locations remains the old, dirty, high-sulfur variety, so a hybrid diesel actually wouldn't be a significant improvement in emissions; once low-sulfur regulations take effect in 2006, this may change.
so why don't we see them?
diesel-hybrid-electrics would be an obvious  positive development.
for more info on biodiesel, look at: http://www.journeytoforever.org/biodiesel_svo.html http://www.journeytoforever.org/biodiesel_make.html http://www.biodiesel.org/
theepa has more info  on clean diesel.
rider a biodiesel-based, ultra-efficient hybrid-diesel automobile &  transportation system would give a putative hydrogen economy a serious  challenge, especially since the infrastructure changes required are far less  dramatic, the necessary technology far less speculative, and the severence of  ties to petroleum nations and industries far more complete.
but modern diesel engine design coupled with the much-cleaner  types of diesel fuel increasingly available (particularly  "biodiesel") make diesel vehicles a surprisingly  environmentally-friendly choice.
i wish they would sell them here in the us but the quality of our diesel is  too low.
as a nzer, i'm excited by my government's move toward re-using our meat industry by-product - tallow - as a fuel.
diesel-electric hybrid buses are available and have been rolled out in (among  other places)seattle, washington and apeldoorn, in the netherlands.
svo, or "straight vegetable oil," can gum up the engine at lower temperatures, so there aresvo-conversion kits available for diesel vehicles which use a small amount of regular diesel or biodiesel to warm up the engine first.
i think its important to mention the aspect of diesel eletric hybrid motorcycle as well.
my mix requires nothing special.
we drill oil and have refineries and ship the  products overseas.
it's the only way trains could get enough torque to start  moving, but it is also exactly the model used by todays 2nd-gen hybrid autos.
that is our local price.
especially foolish when we could switch to something likehttp://www.skytran.net and get the equivalent of hundreds of miles a gallon, not have to deal with traffic, not have to deal with bad drivers, and not have to deal with the hassles of owning a car (insurance, maintenance, registration etc.) and get from point a to point b at 100 mph.
for more info on biodiesel, look at: http://www.journeytoforever.org/biodiesel_svo.html http://www.biodiesel.org/ posted by: jamais cascio on 11 jun 04 hybrid-diesels are indeed a great idea within the umbrella of "each  person should be moving 1,200-3,600 pounds of glass, steel, rubber and plastic  everwhere they go".
for those of you familiar only with the sooty smoke belching from older  big-rig trucks or the foul smells from 1970s diesel cars, the question may come  as a surprise.
the production of biodiesel in large enough quantities to sustain a transportation network would certainly involve agribusiness.
in a sense diesel locomotives were the first "hybrids".
the only things holding it back then was emissions, but now that we have low sulfur diesel being mandated by washington that hurdle should be cleared, and extra cost.
they get thiers use oil from restaurant so does walmart,sams club also chines restaurant.
my friend strain the used oil then puts it in thier cars and winter they use  the diesel.
last year, mit'slaboratory for energy  and the environment produced a study (pdf) comparing total lifecycle energy  efficiency and greenhouse emissions (including use, production, fuel  production, and eventual disposal) of idealized advanced internal combustion,  hybrid, and fuel cell vehicles.
test-drive a diesel and you will see that things have changed quite a bit.
the vw lupo (a diesel) already has some elements of hybrid technology, including a continuous automatic transmission and electric motor for lower rpms.
(vegetable oil can be used to run diesel engines directly, although doing  so can be somewhat risky.
and we could do this with directly with electric energy (the advantage being that we could generate this with [currently affordable] wind power, solar power and or tidal power).
driving your car is public transportation (very, very expensive, very, very ineficient public transportation) in view of the cost of roads, petroleum subsidies, environmental damage, and loss of limb and life.
vw double-insulates the engine cage to make sure that noise is sufficiently dampened, and their are scrubbers on the exhaust to minimize the soot.
news of a diesel hybrid is very exciting.
in  europe, where advanced-technology "clean" diesel autos are one-third  to one-half of the auto market and growing, some diesel cars already get  mileage roughly equivalent to hybrids, so i suspect there's simply less demand.
for many years diesel trains have been driven by a large diesel engine generating electricity to charge a battery bank turning electric motors to drive the train.
what studies have been made to show either a total lack or dramatic  reduction in both?
i live in florida which is warm about 95% of the time.
and that doesn't even consider  biodiesel.
diesel hybrids turned out to be much better than gasoline/gasoline-hybrid cars, and highly competitive with the best hydrogen fuel cell systems (even assuming optimistic fuel cell vehicle development).
and scrubbing the exhaust is unnecessary when using the high-grade diesel fuels.
they have had no problems with the cooking oil except in the  winter.
while biodiesel, petroleum from thermal depolymerisation  http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/thermal_depolymerization , and enzyme hydrolysis  of plant cellulosehttp://www.purevisiontechnology.com/technology/hydrolysis.html  all provide alternates to traditional petroleum ,there won't be enough to  replace our currently wastefull usage.
(i would assume that "clean" means non-cancer  causing, but maybe i'm wrong there too.)
by the way, in all these years, nothing has had to be touched on the engine  besides the replacement of the coolant pump 2 years ago.
theepa has more info on clean diesel.
bio-diesel could forstall the ever depleating oil reserves said to be overwelmed by demand by 2016.
the us$1.00 is valued at tts6.30 to give a comparison or us$0.24 per liter.
(more in the extended entry...)
when i hear the word "diesel", i automatically think carcinogenic and mutagenic particulates in the exhaust.
they have had no problems with the cooking oil except in the winter.
from what i understand it gets around 80 mpg and is about the size of a  mini cooper, and costs quite a bit less.
especially foolish when we could switch to something likehttp://www.skytran.net  and get the equivalent of hundreds of miles a gallon, not have to deal with  traffic, not have to deal with bad drivers, and not have to deal with the  hassles of owning a car (insurance, maintenance, registration etc.) and get  from point a to point b at 100 mph.
diesel engines are perfectly suited for hybrids.
i believe there is a  company working on this product called the e-cycle posted by: lawson  on 7 jun 04 lawson, i wrote about the e-cycle earlier: easy (and green)
when chrysler showed the dodge intrepid diesel-electric hybrid a few years ago, i was impressed.
i suppose the answer varies depending upon where you are.