[6] b. lee, g. rizzoni, y. guezennec,  a. soliman, m. cavalletti, j. p, waters -engine control using torque  estimation - sae technical paper 2001- 01-0995, 2001.
results show that only limited, although not negligible, gains in nox emission levels can be achieved through the optimal control of the hev drivetrain, necessitating an aggressive aftertreatment strategy.
[6] b. lee, g. rizzoni, y. guezennec, a. soliman, m. cavalletti, j. p, waters -engine control using torque estimation - sae technical paper 2001- 01-0995, 2001.ifac
the system shows the  potential to decrease nox emissions by 90%.
in the second facet of the work, an aftertreatment system is presented consisting of a set of parallel lean nox traps and a novel set of actuators for providing heat and/or hydrocarbons independent of the engine control strategy.
the first aspect of this work focuses on a supervisory control strategy for charge-sustaining, parallel hev drivetrains, which provides the a real-time control policy for the use of a cidi engine and an electric motor, while simultaneously minimizing fuel consumption and reducing nox emissions.
diesel emissions,diesel after-treatment,lean nox  traps,hybrid electric vehicles,supervisory control strategy
supervisory control policy for the energy optimization of charge-sustaining hybrid electric vehicles - jsae review, 2001.
supervisory control policy for the energy optimization of charge-sustaining  hybrid electric vehicles - jsae review, 2001.
the first aspect of this work focuses on  a supervisory control strategy for charge-sustaining, parallel hev drivetrains,  which provides the a real-time control policy for the use of a cidi engine and  an electric motor, while simultaneously minimizing fuel consumption and  reducing nox emissions.
in the second facet of the work, an aftertreatment system is  presented consisting of a set of parallel lean nox traps and a novel set of  actuators for providing heat and/or hydrocarbons independent of the engine  control strategy.
authors yann guezennec; shawn midlam-mohler; makoto tateno; mike hopka identifier 10.3182/20020721-6-es-1901.01520 index terms diesel emissions,diesel after-treatment,lean nox traps,hybrid electric vehicles,supervisory control strategy abstract a two-stage approach to diesel emission management in diesel hybrid electric vehicles is presented.
the system shows the potential to decrease nox emissions by 90%.
[5] y. guezennec and p. gyan -a novel approach to real-time estimation of the individual cylinder combustion pressure for s.i. engine control - sae technical paper 1999-01-0209, 1999.
[4] m. larsson, l. andersson, o. fast, m. litorell,  r. makuie,nox trap control by physically based model, sae 1999-01-3503,  1999.
the proper control of this system is obtained by a relatively simple dynamic model of the nox absorbers, coupled with a real-time estimator of the nox engine-out emissions based on the engine operating points (set by the control strategy) and their transient behavior.
abstract a two-stage approach to diesel emission management in diesel  hybrid electric vehicles is presented.
[2] g. paganelli, g. ercole, a. brahma, y. guezennec and g. rizzoni -general
results show that only limited, although not  negligible, gains in nox emission levels can be achieved through the optimal  control of the hev drivetrain, necessitating an aggressive aftertreatment  strategy.
the proper control of this system is obtained by a relatively  simple dynamic model of the nox absorbers, coupled with a real-time estimator  of the nox engine-out emissions based on the engine operating points (set by  the control strategy) and their transient behavior.
[5] y. guezennec and p. gyan -a novel approach to real-time estimation  of the individual cylinder combustion pressure for s.i. engine control -  sae technical paper 1999-01-0209, 1999.
[3] diesel emission control - sulfur effects (decse) program, phase ii summary report: nox adsorber catalyst, october 2000.
references [1] a. brahma, y. guezennec, g. paganelli, g. rizzoni and s. yurkovich - a hardware- and architecture-independent supervisory control strategy for  hybrid-electric drivetrains - 4th stuttgart interna-tional symposium on  motor vehicles and com-bustion engines - stuttgart - germany - february 2001.
[4] m. larsson, l. andersson, o. fast, m. litorell, r. makuie,nox trap control by physically based model, sae 1999-01-3503, 1999.
[3] diesel emission control - sulfur effects (decse) program, phase ii summary report: nox adsorber  catalyst, october 2000.
references [1] a. brahma, y. guezennec, g. paganelli, g. rizzoni and s. yurkovich - a hardware- and architecture-independent supervisory control strategy for hybrid-electric drivetrains - 4th stuttgart interna-tional symposium on motor vehicles and com-bustion engines - stuttgart - germany - february 2001.