but major technological advancements over the past few decades, as well as  new regulations on the fuel that fires them here, has breathed new life into  the diesel market in north america.
"the modern diesels are just fabulous engines," says david cole of the center for automotive research.
the gap narrows substantially in higher-end vehicles, where the $2,000  premium is negligible.
in north america the push has been primarily focused on rewarding consumers of electric or hybrid vehicles, he said.
diesel sales accounted for about 1% of total u.s. sales in 2011, while the  hybrid market was more than double that.
"where diesels are offered, we definitely see that it commands a premium [in the used market] over the gas variant, and often times, it is a premium over what the feature originally sold for."
" but mr. magliano says there would have to be more options in the north  america marketplace before consumers, in particular in the u.s., really buy  into diesel.
japan's mazda motor corp. also plans to introduce diesel variations of several of its popular vehicles next year in north america, although it has yet to officially say which models.
for example, the diesel option on the older grand cherokee that went out of production in 2008 cost consumers roughly $6,000 extra.
"we're introducing diesel to bring down the average fuel economy for our vehicle fleet.
it is perhaps not surprising then that peter hatges, a partner at kpmg llp and leader of its automotive group, expects the uptake in diesel engines to greatly outpace hybrids in the coming years.
this has automakers searching for more consumer-friendly alternatives as  they struggle to meet the increasingly stringent efficiency standards set in  the u.s. and elsewhere.
diesel sales made up about 3% of sales in canada last  year, compared to about 1.5% for hybrid and all-electric vehicles, says dennis  desrosiers, a leading auto analyst in the country.
part of the discrepancy is that the diesel engine is a proven technology,  whereas there is still a lot anxiety about electrified vehicles' batteries,  which can cost upward of $10,000 each.
it's new to north america in the sense  that it has been improved so much.- the engines themselves are very  robust," mr. hatges says.
for example, the diesel option on the older grand cherokee that went out of  production in 2008 cost consumers roughly $6,000 extra.
lawmakers decided to let owners of the new volt drive it  solo in california's carpool lanes.
diesel sales made up about 3% of sales in canada last year, compared to about 1.5% for hybrid and all-electric vehicles, says dennis desrosiers, a leading auto analyst in the country.
it's new to north america in the sense that it has been improved so much.- the engines themselves are very robust," mr. hatges says.
"it might be size, handling, power, trunk space, design or other things, and at the same time pay a lot more," he says.
there's probably going to be other fuels in here, like natural gas, that are likely going to be a part of it.
gm said this week it would bring a diesel variation of its popular compact car, the cruze, to north america next year.
about 30% of vw's overall sales in  canada are diesel engines compared to 50% in europe, where consumers are  rewarded for driving more efficient vehicles of all types through the tax  regime there.
the state of california recently announced plans to offer owners of new low-emission chevrolet volts a us$1,500 tax credit on top of the us$7,500 rebate already given to those who buy the electric vehicle.
"hybridization and electrification is part of it.
"i think the bloom is off the rose on electrification a little bit and people are looking at the traditional internal combustion engine and the diesel engine as a way of hitting those fuel-economy standards," he says.
"diesel used to be 'd' for 'dirty.'
"in europe, there is very significant government support of diesel  cars," he said.
"with diesel, you also pay more, but you do not have to compromise." josh bailey, vice-president of research at canadian black book, said diesel engines also carry the added advantage of a higher resale value.
there's probably going to be other fuels in  here, like natural gas, that are likely going to be a part of it.
"diesel technology is not new.
mr. desrosiers says he believes the somewhat tepid response to electric and hybrid vehicles in canada is a result of the compromises consumers have to make in order to drive them.
scdeveau@nationalpost.com© copyright (c) national post images of the 2012 porsche 911 carbriolet one of the hottest coupes of 2012 - the jaguar xkr...
but the resale value of  the diesel grand cherokee commands up to a $10,000 premium in the secondary  market relative to the traditional gasoline version, he said.
"it speaks volumes about what people want to buy," mr. bailey  says.
but the extra value comes in the  selling price.
the current sixth-generation ... more » 2012 could become known as the hybrid horribilis, or the year in which diesel fans can finally say their day has dawned.
as sergio marchionne, chrysler chief executive, put it at the detroit auto show this year: "we think that the market is ready to listen to a diesel story.
but their legacy of being loud, sulphur-spewing beasts clogging north  american highways has been something that has weighed on sales here.
" but mr. magliano says there would have to be more options in the north america marketplace before consumers, in particular in the u.s., really buy into diesel.
" chrysler will also be bringing a diesel version of its grand cherokee to market in the second quarter of 2013.
that's not the case anymore.
new images of the mazda takeri concept — ...
part of the discrepancy is that the diesel engine is a proven technology, whereas there is still a lot anxiety about electrified vehicles' batteries, which can cost upward of $10,000 each.
the average diesel-powered vehicle will cost about $2,000 more  than a traditional internal-combustion engine, while a hybrid variation might  cost upward of $7,000 more, depending on the make and model, he says.
[in the used market] over the gas variant, and often times, it is a  premium over what the feature originally sold for."
a recent kpmg study forecast  that electrified vehicles were unlikely to make up more than 15% of the overall  market in north american until at least 2025.
"if the government wants to make efficiency part of the course of day-to-day business activity and part of the buyer's decision, well then, efficiency of any sort should be rewarded."
by scott deveau, financial post february 27, 2012 story photos ( 1 ) audi q7 tdi instrument panel, showing an instant fuel economy of  5.9l/100km at 70 mph on a us interstate where the speed limit is 70 mph.
volkswagen estimates that about 40% of its canadian customers will choose a  diesel variation when given the choice between it and a traditional gasoline  engine.
"hybridization and electrification is  part of it.
north america ready to hear the 'diesel story: ' sergio marchionne, chrysler ceo diesel fuel efficiency 25% benefit over combustion diesels' share of u.s. automobile 1% in 2011 sales diesels' share of canadian automobile 3% in 2011 sales projected share of diesel 15% sales in canada by 2020
mercedes-benz estimates that between 75% and 85% of its customers will  choose diesel when given both options.
"it's all centred around fuel economy," says matt crossley, gm  canada's director of engineering.
"it's part of our environmental strategy.
north america ready to hear the 'diesel story: ' sergio marchionne,  chrysler ceo diesel fuel efficiency 25% benefit over combustion diesels' share of u.s. automobile 1% in 2011 sales diesels' share of canadian automobile 3% in 2011 sales projected share of diesel 15% sales in canada by 2020 scdeveau@nationalpost.com
" diesel engines on average offer about 25% greater fuel efficiency than a traditional combustion engine, or roughly the same amount as a hybrid, says george magliano, ihs global insight analyst.
in canada last year, hybrid and electric vehicles  amounted to just 1.5% of the total vehicles sold, with sales weighed down by  consumer anxiety around the technology and price.
it's not just the u.s. automakers joining the party.
but thomas tetzlaff, vw canada spokesman, notes that diesel sales are made  without the aid of government subsidies.
at the same time, hybrids in the used market seldom come close to making up the original amount paid, he said.
but their legacy of being loud, sulphur-spewing beasts clogging north american highways has been something that has weighed on sales here.
as a result, the market for diesel engines in north america has been primarily reserved for trucks because of their better torque, and to european imports.
the opposite is true, however, in canada, where consumers are more efficiency oriented.
the 2012 canadian international auto show opens to...
diesel models becoming more desirable
he says he expects diesel sales to make up about 15% of the market in  canada within the next eight years, while it will likely be at least 15 years  before hybrids and electrics hit that point.
"it's all centred around fuel economy," says matt crossley, gm canada's director of engineering.
as sergio marchionne, chrysler chief executive, put it at the  detroit auto show this year: "we think that the market is ready to listen  to a diesel story.
"a lot of the historic problems of  noise and smell are pretty much gone, and diesel fuel is more widely  available."
oddly enough, that has brought companies like electricity booster general motors co. back to diesels in their efforts to curb emissions.
"in europe, there is very significant government support of diesel cars," he said.
but major technological advancements over the past few decades, as well as new regulations on the fuel that fires them here, has breathed new life into the diesel market in north america.
mr. desrosiers says he believes the somewhat tepid response to electric and  hybrid vehicles in canada is a result of the compromises consumers have to make  in order to drive them.
"i think the bloom is off the rose on electrification a little bit and  people are looking at the traditional internal combustion engine and the diesel  engine as a way of hitting those fuel-economy standards," he says.
" diesel engines on average offer about 25% greater fuel efficiency than a  traditional combustion engine, or roughly the same amount as a hybrid, says  george magliano, ihs global insight analyst.
derek mcnaughton , canwest news service the state of california recently announced plans to offer owners of new  low-emission chevrolet volts a us$1,500 tax credit on top of the us$7,500  rebate already given to those who buy the electric vehicle.
but the extra value comes in the selling price.
a lot of other manufacturers  are looking at hybrids and electric vehicles," says sandra lemaitre, mazda  canada spokeswoman.
lawmakers decided to let owners of the new volt drive it solo in california's carpool lanes.
the average diesel-powered vehicle will cost about $2,000 more than a traditional internal-combustion engine, while a hybrid variation might cost upward of $7,000 more, depending on the make and model, he says.
they have long made up nearly half of the market in europe and elsewhere.
"a lot of the historic problems of noise and smell are pretty much gone, and diesel fuel is more widely available."
as a  result, the market for diesel engines in north america has been primarily  reserved for trucks because of their better torque, and to european imports.
but thomas tetzlaff, vw canada spokesman, notes that diesel sales are made without the aid of government subsidies.
the opposite is true, however, in canada, where consumers are more  efficiency oriented.
"where diesels are offered, we definitely see that it commands a  premium
the value proposition is clear: diesel engines offer similar fuel savings  to hybrids at a lower cost and without the anxiety attached to a new  technology.
the value proposition is clear: diesel engines offer similar fuel savings to hybrids at a lower cost and without the anxiety attached to a new technology.
" diesel engines have, however, presented themselves as one of the more  proven technologies in the marketplace.
it is perhaps the best sign that diesels are entering the mainstream on this continent.
volkswagen estimates that about 40% of its canadian customers will choose a diesel variation when given the choice between it and a traditional gasoline engine.
it was just the latest example of how governments across north america have been pushing consumers toward electric and hybrid vehicles and off fossil fuels.
but to little effect.
"diesel is part of it.
it was just the latest example of how governments across north america have  been pushing consumers toward electric and hybrid vehicles and off fossil fuels.
oddly enough, that has brought companies like electricity booster general  motors co. back to diesels in their efforts to curb emissions.
the gap narrows substantially in higher-end vehicles, where the $2,000 premium is negligible.
in the spirit of valentine's day, here's a list of... images of the porsche camp4 images of the 2012 ford edge hyundai introduced the elantra coupe and elantra gt...
at the same time, hybrids in the used market seldom come close to making up  the original amount paid, he said.
"we're introducing diesel to bring down the average  fuel economy for our vehicle fleet.
in north america the push has been primarily focused on rewarding consumers  of electric or hybrid vehicles, he said.
" diesel engines have, however, presented themselves as one of the more proven technologies in the marketplace.
at least that's what i'm hoping... more »more road tests »
this has automakers searching for more consumer-friendly alternatives as they struggle to meet the increasingly stringent efficiency standards set in the u.s. and elsewhere.
in canada last year, hybrid and electric vehicles amounted to just 1.5% of the total vehicles sold, with sales weighed down by consumer anxiety around the technology and price.
it is perhaps the best sign that  diesels are entering the mainstream on this continent.
it is perhaps not surprising then that peter hatges, a partner at kpmg llp  and leader of its automotive group, expects the uptake in diesel engines to  greatly outpace hybrids in the coming years.
more details more details more details the volkswagen golf has been around forever - well at least 37 years - and for some of that time it was called a rabbit.
mercedes-benz estimates that between 75% and 85% of its customers will choose diesel when given both options.
they have long made up nearly half of  the market in europe and elsewhere.
he says he expects diesel sales to make up about 15% of the market in canada within the next eight years, while it will likely be at least 15 years before hybrids and electrics hit that point.
"if the government wants to make efficiency part of  the course of day-to-day business activity and part of the buyer's decision,  well then, efficiency of any sort should be rewarded."
but the resale value of the diesel grand cherokee commands up to a $10,000 premium in the secondary market relative to the traditional gasoline version, he said.
"the modern diesels are just fabulous engines," says david cole  of the center for automotive research.
"with diesel,  you also pay more, but you do not have to compromise." josh bailey, vice-president of research at canadian black book, said diesel  engines also carry the added advantage of a higher resale value.
about 30% of vw's overall sales in canada are diesel engines compared to 50% in europe, where consumers are rewarded for driving more efficient vehicles of all types through the tax regime there.
a lot of other manufacturers are looking at hybrids and electric vehicles," says sandra lemaitre, mazda canada spokeswoman.
gm said this week it would bring a diesel variation of its popular compact  car, the cruze, to north america next year.
"it speaks volumes about what people want to buy," mr. bailey says.
" chrysler will also be bringing a diesel version of its grand cherokee to  market in the second quarter of 2013.
diesel sales accounted for about 1% of total u.s. sales in 2011, while the hybrid market was more than double that.
japan's mazda motor corp. also plans to introduce diesel variations of  several of its popular vehicles next year in north america, although it has yet  to officially say which models.
"it might be size, handling, power, trunk space, design or other  things, and at the same time pay a lot more," he says.
with the fuel savings and higher resale value, buyers of new diesel-powered cars can find themselves with an extra couple of thousand dollars in their pocket after just a few years.
a recent kpmg study forecast that electrified vehicles were unlikely to make up more than 15% of the overall market in north american until at least 2025.
with the fuel savings and higher resale value, buyers of new diesel-powered  cars can find themselves with an extra couple of thousand dollars in their  pocket after just a few years.