the new system, which will be far cleaner and more efficient, will  mate a five-cylinder diesel engine with an electric motor driving the rear  wheels.
go log in or create an account
mr. berman is a tireless researcher of the green car market.
in a recent press conference, lex kerssemakers, senior vp  of volvo product strategy, acknowledged that these large engines are no longer  practical, and may be replaced with turbocharged six-cylinders which offer  almost as much power while burning 25 percent less fuel.
this would include the c30 hatchback, the s40 sedan, and the v50 wagon.
the new system, which will be far cleaner and more efficient, will mate a five-cylinder diesel engine with an electric motor driving the rear wheels.
in a recent press conference, lex kerssemakers, senior vp of volvo product strategy, acknowledged that these large engines are no longer practical, and may be replaced with turbocharged six-cylinders which offer almost as much power while burning 25 percent less fuel.
volvo’s diesel-hybrid technology is initially being targeted for the larger vehicles in the line-up, specifically, the s80 sedan and the xc90 utility.
volvo is also considering some common sense steps, such as the elimination of v8 powertrains.
the stop-start system—designed to  prevent unnecessary gas usage when the vehicle is at a standstill—is  estimated to improve fuel efficiency by about five percent.
this vehicle was  previewed as the recharge concept at the 2007 frankfurt auto show.
there is also talk of a plug-in hybrid version of the volvo c30, which would allow an electric-only range of about 60 miles.
offering around 15 to 17 miles per gallon depending on the vehicle, v8 engines are out of step with the energy-efficient direction of the automotive industry.
but then i heard about these 10... article · 5 comments john gartner says: a proposed settlement to make amends for energy price-fixing during the enron era is causing shockwaves around...
the c30, s40, and v50 will also be part of volvo’s drive initiative,  which was on display at the 2008 paris auto show last week.
plugincars.com is a trusted and reliable source of information about next-generation automotive trends.
article · 2 comments brad berman says: according to a statement released by china's state council, the target is to put at least 500,000 plug-in vehicles on... article · 22 comments brad berman says: recent reports about the declining cost of electric car batteries raise as many questions as they answer.
if you enjoyed this article, please  subscribe below: subscribe to our feed
larger vehicles would receive the new system in the following year.
offering around 15 to 17 miles per gallon depending on the  vehicle, v8 engines are out of step with the energy-efficient direction of the  automotive industry.
they extend from a small city car to a supercar.
the  brand already has a history of diesel cars, most notably the volvo 850 turbo in  the 1980s.
the brand already has a history of diesel cars, most notably the volvo 850 turbo in the 1980s.
other companies, most notably volkswagen and psa peugeot citroen, have flirted withdiesel-hybrid concepts, but high cost remains an impediment.
and according to automotive news, volvo is now planning to combine  modern diesel technology with a hybrid powertrain to be launched by 2012.
he is the transportation editor at home power magazine.
larger vehicles would receive  the new system in the following year.
first for europe, and then presumably for the us, diesel models will feature a host of eco-efficiency features, including increased aerodynamics, the use of lower rolling resistance tires, and higher gear ratios.
discussion · 2 comments bolt says: i have been holding off on buying an ev because of the scarcity of charging stations.
plugincars.com is a trusted and reliable source of information about  next-generation automotive trends.
there is also talk of a plug-in hybrid version of the volvo c30, which  would allow an electric-only range of about 60 miles.
this vehicle was previewed as the recharge concept at the 2007 frankfurt auto show.
by brad berman · october 06, 2008 volvo loyalists have been wondering for some time now about the swedish carmaker’s near-term plans for producing an eco-friendly offering within its lineup.
brad writes about alternative energy cars for the new york times, detroit free press, reuters and other publications.
and according to automotive news, volvo is now planning to combine modern diesel technology with a hybrid powertrain to be launched by 2012.
first for europe,  and then presumably for the us, diesel models will feature a host of  eco-efficiency features, including increased aerodynamics, the use of lower  rolling resistance tires, and higher gear ratios.
this would include the  c30 hatchback, the s40 sedan, and the v50 wagon.
but there was... nissan leaf article · 35 comments brad berman says: if the sunshine, lush tropical beauty, and laidback lifestyle isn’t enough to make you pack up and move to hawaii, here... honda fit ev article · 43 comments brad berman says: if honda president takanobu ito is looking for a car to bring driving fun to the company’s brand—his main message from... article · 28 comments brad berman says: in these early days of the electric vehicle market, companies producing cars, batteries and charging equipment are... copyright ©2012 plugincars.com
volvo’s diesel-hybrid technology is initially being targeted for  the larger vehicles in the line-up, specifically, the s80 sedan and the xc90  utility.
if volvo delivers on its hybrid plans, in a few short years the company could have micro-hybrids, diesel-hybrids, plug-in hybrids, and clean diesel offerings.
stay on the cutting edge of green car technology!
he is quoted in national media outlets, such as cbs news, abc news, cnbc, cbc, and marketwatch.
volvo's hybrid car campaign by brad berman · october 06, 2008 volvo loyalists have been wondering for some time now about the swedish  carmaker’s near-term plans for producing an eco-friendly offering within  its lineup.
article · 13 comments eric loveday says: now that general motors has priced the five-door 2013 chevrolet spark at an extremely reasonable $12,995, we wonder if... article · 4 comments laurent j. masson says: there are many electric car projects at volkswagen.
the c30, s40, and v50 will also be part of volvo’s drive initiative, which was on display at the 2008 paris auto show last week.
if you enjoyed this article, please subscribe below: bradley berman is the editor of plugincars.com.
other companies, most notably volkswagen and psa peugeot citroen, have  flirted withdiesel-hybrid concepts, but high cost remains an impediment.
full bio · 929 posts ·your name: log in to post article · 2 comments dave hurst says: there’s been plenty of bad news recently in the world electric vehicles, mostly related to start ups like fisker and...
the ford subsidiary has shown several hybrid concept vehicles at  various international auto shows, but there have been no formal announcements  about taking any green ideas to market.
if volvo delivers on its hybrid plans, in a few short years the company  could have micro-hybrids, diesel-hybrids, plug-in hybrids, and clean diesel  offerings.
the stop-start system—designed to prevent unnecessary gas usage when the vehicle is at a standstill—is estimated to improve fuel efficiency by about five percent.
the ford subsidiary has shown several hybrid concept vehicles at various international auto shows, but there have been no formal announcements about taking any green ideas to market.
volvo is also considering some common sense steps, such as the elimination  of v8 powertrains.
volvo’s green campaign will begin—according to company  announcements—in 2010 when the company implements micro-hybrid stop-start  technology in several of its smaller gas-powered models.
volvo’s green campaign will begin—according to company announcements—in 2010 when the company implements micro-hybrid stop-start technology in several of its smaller gas-powered models.