no structural constraints affecting the layout and design within the  passenger compartment * 4×4 and environmental-friendliness are no longer contradicting terms the installation at the rear, of all the vehicle’s “electrical  components”, has further technical and economic benefits.
rear suspension to ensure a dynamic performance on a par with peugeot’s reputable  road holding standards, the rear electric module also includes a multi-arm rear  suspension within which are housed the electric motor and the reduction gearbox.
the electric motor takes over from the hdi diesel engine in phases of  lower power demands, particularly when pulling away, driving at low speed and  decelerating (for energy recovery).
it offers peace of mind, safety, improved driveability and accentuates the vehicle’s dynamic character.
hybrid4 technology brings together peugeot’s best technologies and  experience: hdi diesel engines, electric vehicle knowledge, second-generation  stop & start and electronically-controlled sequential manual gearboxes.
in this mode, the notion of “controlled power” comes into its own, coupling the diesel engine with the electric motor provides more dynamic performance, optimally distributed and transmitted to the road by the four wheel drive for a level of stability and driveability that will appeal to motoring enthusiasts.
the electric motor and its ancillary equipment (inverter, converter, etc) are fitted at the rear of the vehicle.
on the peugeot 3008 hybrid4 all these components have been made as compact as possible to optimise the installation and weight effect in the vehicle.
the combination of a fuel efficient 2.0 litre 163 bhp hdi diesel  engine and a 37 bhp electric motor is the optimal combination for a hybrid  vehicle.
the 3008 hybrid4 will be produced in france (in sochaux and mulhouse) and marketed in the spring of 2011 in europe.
unlike previous hybrid vehicles which have chosen to use a less fuel  efficient petrol engine, the peugeot 3008 hybrid4′s diesel engine  provides superior combined drive cycle fuel consumption of 74.4mpg, and co2  emissions of 99g/km.
press release the peugeot 3008 hybrid4 – the world’s
the peugeot 3008 hybrid4 can also be transformed to offer a considerable load capacity under the parcel shelf of 420 litres (362 dm3 vda), with 66 litres (29 dm3 vda) available under the boot floor.
the driver will, therefore, no longer be concerned by the prospect  of a slippery track or a snowbound uphill drive to a ski resort * sport” mode favours quicker gear changes at higher engine speeds  than normal mode.
the hdi diesel engine operates in its most optimal operating window on longer, out-of-town journeys.
naturally this is combined with the latest generation “octosquare” eolys additive-enhanced diesel particulate emission filter (fap) system.
“multiflex” interior due to its intelligent “multiflex” interior and clever integration of the batteries and the innovative rear suspension,
different  scales indicate the battery status: charge, eco (optimal operating range),  power, boost (maximum use jointly with the hdi diesel engine).
it generates a constant torque of 100 nm, or a peak of 200 nm when necessary.
clearly the hdi diesel engine is the best  internal combustion engine choice.
suppliers to develop its hybrid4 technology, the psa peugeot citroën group has  teamed up with suppliers offering the best expertise in each field.
to obtain this level of performance it uses peugeot’s latest generation eccs (extreme conventional combustion system) combustion chamber design, a variable-geometry low-inertia turbocharger, a high-pressure injection pump allowing a maximum pressure of 2000 bar and solenoid injectors with eight apertures.
it provides a constant 27 bhp, with a peak output of 37 bhp.
it operates in a voltage range of between 150 and 270 volts.
interior inside its roomy architecture, the driving position bears all the hallmarks  of a top-of-the-range vehicle, or even that of an aircraft cockpit.
furthermore, the driveability, safety and eco-efficiency of the system are  based on simple, reasonable and consistent technological choices.
pursuing the common sense approach of capitalising on the best existing  components and expertise, it was only natural to use peugeot’s  electronically-controlled 6-speed manual gearbox, not only for its engine  management capabilities but also for its ability to optimise fuel consumption.
this frees up a gigantic 1501 litre compartment that is easy to load.
my tdi jetta rocks, so really anxious to see a hybrid diesel (just hope is slightly higher off the ground that the jetta).reply wow detailed article!, nice not holding my breath though but sounds pretty interesting, but guess not much to say until not vapor-ware, and they become avail in u.s.
with the peugeot 3008 equipped with hybrid4 technology, the aim is to appeal to customers who expect both environmental-friendliness and technological sophistication, and also genuine driving enjoyment.
electronically-controlled 6-speed manual gearbox (bmp6)
if you are  new here, you might want tosubscribe to the rss feed for  updates on this topic.
for example, to ensure that the driver never needs to take an eye off the road ahead, and as in a jet aircraft, essential driving information is projected onto a retractable transparent panel which cleverly extends from the instrument panel.
the hdi diesel engine is mated to an electronically-controlled manual six-speed sequential gearbox: * in automatic mode its electronic control helps provide significant savings in fuel consumption, compared to a traditional automatic gearbox or even a traditional manual gearbox
the hdi diesel engine drives the front wheels, while the electric motor (in the rear drive train) drives the rear wheels.
by launching the world’s first diesel full hybrid vehicle – the  3008 hybrid 4 – peugeot will be writing a new chapter in motoring  history.
interior inside its roomy architecture, the driving position bears all the hallmarks of a top-of-the-range vehicle, or even that of an aircraft cockpit.
for the “electric” component, peugeot has historical expertise  in the field of electric vehicles.
the electric motor and its ancillary equipment (inverter, converter, etc)  are fitted at the rear of the vehicle.
on the peugeot 3008 hybrid4 all these components have been made as compact  as possible to optimise the installation and weight effect in the vehicle.
notify me of new posts by email.
it significantly reduces  fuel consumption and emissions in urban driving conditions while also  enabling.the hdi diesel engine to be restarted instantly and smoothly, when  required.
by launching the world’s first diesel full hybrid vehicle – the 3008 hybrid 4 – peugeot will be writing a new chapter in motoring history.
combined with a raised and dominating driving position it  has everything in place to reward its drivers and offer a range of new driving  experiences not previously found in a conventional hybrid vehicle.
distinctive materials are deployed throughout to accentuate the crossover feel and explore new avenues of expression.
the two power sources also complement each other in certain driving conditions (“boost” effect during hard acceleration, or when overtaking another vehicle, for example).
it also leaves  intact the possibility of using a range of different capacity engines, for  possible future introduction.
changeover from the hdi diesel engine to the electric motor occurs automatically, due to a stop & start system which places the hdi diesel engine in standby and restarts it as and when conditions require (the operation of the accelerator pedal, low battery charge level, etc…).
the choice of hybrid architecture was also guided by the search for optimal  efficiency and consistency.
as its name implies, this function helps the driver to keep aware of the safe distance from the vehicle in front, according to the 3008′s speed.
everything is controlled electronically (“by wire”) and there  are no mechanical links between the front and the rear drivetrains.
these include a  juke-box function, linked to a hard disc, peugeot connect services, gsm  function, a usb connector, a dvd player, a bluetooth® system and a display  which shows specific buildings in full 3d. the peugeot 3008 hybrid4 is a crossover with an exceptional technological  content offering unique versatility and safety, unrivalled driving enjoyment  and co2 emissions of a very low level.
the electric motor takes over from the hdi diesel engine in phases of lower power demands, particularly when pulling away, driving at low speed and decelerating (for energy recovery).
indeed, as well as the social benefit of the steep reduction in fuel consumption, the level of performance provided by this technology will delight even the most demanding customers in terms of road holding, responsiveness, driveability, peace of mind regardless of road conditions and the possibility of enjoying silent operation in town in the all-electric mode.
based on the manufacturer’s technical specifications, bosch has provided its expertise with respect to the electric motor, the power electronics, the reversible high-voltage alternator / generator and other systems managing the dialogue between these components, the braking and trajectory correction systems (abs and esp).
activation of the hdi diesel engine is programmed to coincide with only more sustained phases of acceleration.
the performance of the hybrid4 is therefore directly comparable to that obtained with a single hdi diesel engine of a much higher capacity, with good levels of responsiveness backed by a real breakthrough in terms of reduced fuel consumption and co2 emissions (around 35 % less in the combined cycle for equivalent performance).
this is true in particular of the  new and specific guérande & tramontane two-tone leather finish which  subtly combines bright pale grey on the seat cushions with a black finish on  the sides of the seats.
to date, the 106 electric, marketed between 1995 and 2003, remains the world’s best selling zero emissions car (in total nearly 10,000 vehicles were produced).
a diesel engine still remains the most efficient and versatile choice to power any vehicle *
a specific steering wheel bearing the signature hybrid4 adds a touch of exclusivity to the car.
this recovery system enables the driver  to re-deploy the “free” (kinetic) energy to reduce fuel consumption  accordingly.
my tdi jetta rocks, so really anxious to see a hybrid diesel (just hope is slightly higher off the ground that the jetta).reply way to go: the world’s first production diesel hybrid!!reply way to go: the world’s first production diesel hybrid!!reply makes a lot more sense than a prius.
at the rear, the rear spoiler has a two-tone finish with a high gloss black  section, helping to differentiate it from the other 3008 models in the range,  as do the chrome badges which decorate the sides and rear of the car.
the performance of the system can be enhanced by the fitment of optional 16”
another item of equipment that helps to ensure maximum driving convenience is the parallel park assist (ppa).
they also control another original item of equipment – the distance alert system.
secondly, this architecture is achieved by means of the use of a simple and  compact rear module containing the electric motor, its ancillary equipment and  also the rear drive train and suspension.
“multiflex” interior due to its intelligent “multiflex” interior and clever  integration of the batteries and the innovative rear suspension, the peugeot  3008 hybrid4 can also be transformed to offer a considerable load capacity  under the parcel shelf of 420 litres (362 dm3 vda), with 66 litres (29 dm3 vda)  available under the boot floor.
peugeot’s choice of the diesel hybrid demonstrates that it is possible to combine uncompromising environmental demands with driving experiences not previously available in a hybrid vehicle.
different scales indicate the battery status: charge, eco (optimal operating range), power, boost (maximum use jointly with the hdi diesel engine).
activation of the hdi diesel engine is programmed  to coincide with only more sustained phases of acceleration.
this requires the  high-voltage batteries to be sufficiently charged and turns the vehicle into a  “city run-around” par excellence due to the total absence of noise  and emissions.
firstly, it avoids the need for any major redesign of the vehicle’s engine compartment, while also improving weight distribution.
enter your email address: you will only get new articles from us.
since 2007, gas 2 has covered a rapidly changing world coming to terms with its oil addiction.
a real breakthrough in terms of reducing fuel consumption and co2 emissions, while improving dynamic performance levels, providing four-wheel drive and an electric only mode, hybrid4 technology brings a number of benefits without compromises.
latest-generation stop & start system this system places the hdi diesel engine in standby when the vehicle is at a standstill (at traffic lights, a stop sign or in a traffic jam, etc) and when the vehicle is being driven in electric-only mode.
finally, a latest-generation satellite navigation system helps to guide users on their travels.
at  low speed it allows “all-terrain” capabilities equivalent to those  of an suv.
* four-wheel drive mode (4wd) instructs both power trains to operate together as far as possible; the rear wheels are driven by the electric motor and the front wheels by the hdi diesel engine.
this provides a number of advantages not only in terms of customer benefits and it also helps reduce costs and optimise the production process.
the converter reduces the 200 volts from the high-voltage battery pack into 12 volts to supply the vehicle’s onboard systems.
driving aids: comfortably seated behind the steering wheel, drivers will note among the  equipment at their disposal certain references to the world of aviation.
the “hybrid” power train simply combines an hdi diesel engine  and an electric motor.
rear suspension to ensure a dynamic performance on a par with peugeot’s reputable road holding standards, the rear electric module also includes a multi-arm rear suspension within which are housed the electric motor and the reduction gearbox.
the head-up display system can be adjusted by means of toggle  switches.
print pdf pages: 1 2filed under: diesels, hybrid-electric evs tagged with: 3008, diesel-hybrid, hybrid, hybrid4, peugeot wow detailed article!, nice not holding my breath though but sounds pretty interesting, but guess not much to say until not vapor-ware, and they become avail in u.s.
another item of equipment that helps to ensure maximum driving convenience  is the parallel park assist (ppa).
the peugeot 3008 hybrid4 – in detail 2.0 litre hdi fap 163 bhp diesel engine with a capacity of 1997 cm³, this euro 5 engine develops a maximum power of 163 bhp at 3750 rpm and a maximum torque of 300nm at 1580 rpm.
an inverter and a converter are used to control the electric power.
but i still believe hub-motors like the ones proposed by protean electric in their concept opel vivaro hybrid conversion would make even more sense, because there would be at least one electric engine working if the other one have a random failure, and none transmission loss.
the hdi diesel engine is mated to an electronically-controlled manual  six-speed sequential gearbox: * in automatic mode its electronic control helps provide significant  savings in fuel consumption, compared to a traditional automatic gearbox or  even a traditional manual gearbox
the headlamps now have an integral bar of leds providing a daytime lighting  function and accentuate the 3008′s appearance.
it enhances the technological ambience in the same way as the 7” colour display which provides information on the flow of energy.
the high-voltage battery pack is in addition to  the standard 12v battery under the bonnet, which carries on performing its  normal duties.
in the medium term, this battery technology remains the most appropriate in  terms of cost and industrialisation for vehicles produced in large volumes.
driving aids: comfortably seated behind the steering wheel, drivers will note among the equipment at their disposal certain references to the world of aviation.
the original layout of the hybrid4 system allows for the possibility of four-wheel drive.
a distinctive design the new peugeot 3008 hybrid4 is distinguished by its cutting-edge  technology, combining responsible driving and driving enjoyment, but also by  its specific styling.
the “hybrid” power train simply combines an hdi diesel engine and an electric motor.
the hdi diesel engine operates in its most optimal operating window on  longer, out-of-town journeys.
the peugeot 3008 crossover was chosen as the first application of this innovative technology.
this recovery system enables the driver to re-deploy the “free” (kinetic) energy to reduce fuel consumption accordingly.
the head-up display system can be adjusted by means of toggle switches.
the headlamps now have an integral bar of leds providing a daytime lighting function and accentuate the 3008′s appearance.
for the “electric” component, peugeot has historical expertise in the field of electric vehicles.
in this mode, the notion of “controlled power”  comes into its own, coupling the diesel engine with the electric motor provides  more dynamic performance, optimally distributed and transmitted to the road by  the four wheel drive for a level of stability and driveability that will appeal  to motoring enthusiasts.
environmental friendliness with co2 emissions from 99g/km the peugeot 3008 hybrid4 is designed to appeal to demanding, technophile customers who are in search of a rewarding and original vehicle.
in the medium term, this battery technology remains the most appropriate in terms of cost and industrialisation for vehicles produced in large volumes.
the inverter controls the torque of the electric motor by regulating the electrical current supplied from the high-voltage battery pack.
in terms of performance, the peugeot 3008 hybrid4 benefits from the  combined power of the hdi diesel engine and electric motor during acceleration  and when an immediate surge of power is required (the “boost”  function).
the “high voltage” stop & start system has a maximum output  of 8 kw and can generate enough energy to supply the power requirements for the  rear electric motor if required (four-wheel drive mode).
the split lower tailgate opens to reveal a boot with a flat floor equipped  with longitudinal securing rings that exude quality and strength.
it offers real driving satisfaction derived from the possibility of choosing the gear change mode at any time – manual or automatic – with either the gear lever or via controls behind the steering wheel
first diesel  hybrid vehicle *
the two power sources also complement each other in certain driving  conditions (“boost” effect during hard acceleration, or when  overtaking another vehicle, for example).
this gives the system many advantages over a “traditional” mechanical system.
these are precisely the features that  characterise urban driving changeover from the hdi diesel engine to the electric motor occurs  automatically, due to a stop & start system which places the hdi diesel  engine in standby and restarts it as and when conditions require (the operation  of the accelerator pedal, low battery charge level, etc…).
similarly, the electric handbrake coupled with the hill assist function,  helps the driver during manoeuvres but also optimises the interior space within  the vehicle.
furthermore, the driveability, safety and eco-efficiency of the system are based on simple, reasonable and consistent technological choices.
from the boot, a rear seat folding system, controlled by switches mounted on the load area side trims, allow the seats in the second row to be folded automatically, ‘as if by magic’.
indeed, as well as the social benefit of the steep reduction in fuel  consumption, the level of performance provided by this technology will delight  even the most demanding customers in terms of road holding, responsiveness,  driveability, peace of mind regardless of road conditions and the possibility  of enjoying silent operation in town in the all-electric mode.
the peugeot connect 3-d media navigation (ng4) includes all the benefits of the marque’s existing satellite navigation systems.
with their exceptional efficiency, hdi diesel engines  are thermodynamically more efficient than a petrol engine and offer a 30%  reduction in fuel consumption.
hybrid technology uses two power trains which can operate alternately or simultaneously: *
a diesel engine still remains the most efficient  and versatile choice to power any vehicle *
clearly the hdi diesel engine is the best internal combustion engine choice.
this requires the high-voltage batteries to be sufficiently charged and turns the vehicle into a “city run-around” par excellence due to the total absence of noise and emissions.
you are here: home / cars / diesels / peugeot  unveils 3008 hybrid4, world's first production diesel hybrid peugeot unveils 3008 hybrid4, world's first production diesel hybrid august 24, 2010 by nick chambers 5 comments
unlike previous hybrid vehicles which have chosen to use a less fuel efficient petrol engine, the peugeot 3008 hybrid4′s diesel engine provides superior combined drive cycle fuel consumption of 74.4mpg, and co2 emissions of 99g/km.
a  specific steering wheel bearing the signature hybrid4 adds a touch of  exclusivity to the car.
this is true in particular of the new and specific guérande & tramontane two-tone leather finish which subtly combines bright pale grey on the seat cushions with a black finish on the sides of the seats.
based on  the manufacturer’s technical specifications, bosch has provided its  expertise with respect to the electric motor, the power electronics, the  reversible high-voltage alternator / generator and other systems managing the  dialogue between these components, the braking and trajectory correction  systems (abs and esp).
the combination of a fuel efficient 2.0 litre 163 bhp hdi diesel engine and a 37 bhp electric motor is the optimal combination for a hybrid vehicle.
it operates in a voltage  range of between 150 and 270 volts.
the gear lever with its modern and elegant design is a key feature of the  hybrid4 technology.
to date, the 106 electric, marketed between  1995 and 2003, remains the world’s best selling zero emissions car (in  total nearly 10,000 vehicles were produced).
the gear change quality of the gearbox has been enhanced with hybrid4  technology, as the rear electric motor is activated during gear changes to  improve the smoothness of the operation, and sustains drive in between gear  changes.
the “high voltage” stop & start system has a maximum output of 8 kw and can generate enough energy to supply the power requirements for the rear electric motor if required (four-wheel drive mode).
no structural constraints affecting the layout and design within the passenger compartment * 4×4 and environmental-friendliness are no longer contradicting terms the installation at the rear, of all the vehicle’s “electrical components”, has further technical and economic benefits.
electric motor the synchronous permanent magnet electric motor is located at the rear of the vehicle.
finally, a latest-generation satellite navigation system helps to guide  users on their travels.
* “auto” mode: the entire system is automatically controlled, including operation of the hdi diesel engine and the electric motor.
it offers real driving satisfaction derived from the possibility of  choosing the gear change mode at any time – manual or automatic –  with either the gear lever or via controls behind the steering wheel
energy recovery an energy recovery system (the electric motor becomes a generator) enables  the kinetic energy created by the vehicle to be transformed into electrical  energy to recharge the ni-mh batteries during deceleration (release of the  accelerator pedal and during braking).
combined with the folding front passenger seat, the 3008 hybrid4 offers a  perfectly flat floor from the tailgate to the fascia panel.
secondly, this architecture is achieved by means of the use of a simple and compact rear module containing the electric motor, its ancillary equipment and also the rear drive train and suspension.
the peugeot 3008 hybrid4 – in detail 2.0 litre hdi fap 163 bhp diesel engine with a capacity of 1997 cm³, this euro 5 engine develops a maximum  power of 163 bhp at 3750 rpm and a maximum torque of 300nm at 1580 rpm.
these are precisely the features that characterise urban driving
it offers peace of mind, safety,  improved driveability and accentuates the vehicle’s dynamic character.
combined with the folding front passenger seat, the 3008 hybrid4 offers a perfectly flat floor from the tailgate to the fascia panel.
distinctive materials are deployed throughout to accentuate the crossover  feel and explore new avenues of expression.
similarly, sanyo has provided its extensive knowledge in the field of ni-mh high-voltage batteries.
the 3008 hybrid4 also proudly wears the marque’s new lion badge on its bonnet.
at low speed it allows “all-terrain” capabilities equivalent to those of an suv.
similarly, the electric handbrake coupled with the hill assist function, helps the driver during manoeuvres but also optimises the interior space within the vehicle.
the gear change quality of the gearbox has been enhanced with hybrid4 technology, as the rear electric motor is activated during gear changes to improve the smoothness of the operation, and sustains drive in between gear changes.
they also control another original item of  equipment – the distance alert system.
the peugeot 3008 crossover was chosen as the first application of this  innovative technology.
at the end of 2010, peugeot will  become the first to launch a latest-generation 100% electric vehicle in europe,  the peugeot i0n.
the split lower tailgate opens to reveal a boot with a flat floor equipped with longitudinal securing rings that exude quality and strength.
naturally this is combined with the latest generation  “octosquare” eolys additive-enhanced diesel particulate emission  filter (fap) system.
the high-voltage battery pack is in addition to the standard 12v battery under the bonnet, which carries on performing its normal duties.
pursuing the common sense approach of capitalising on the best existing components and expertise, it was only natural to use peugeot’s electronically-controlled 6-speed manual gearbox, not only for its engine management capabilities but also for its ability to optimise fuel consumption.
to improve performance even further a second-generation stop & start system  is also used.
this provides a number of advantages not  only in terms of customer benefits and it also helps reduce costs and optimise  the production process.
similarly, sanyo has provided its extensive knowledge in  the field of ni-mh high-voltage batteries.
from the  boot, a rear seat folding system, controlled by switches mounted on the load  area side trims, allow the seats in the second row to be folded automatically,  ‘as if by magic’.
the esp system fitted to the 3008 hybrid4 incorporates an “improved  traction control system” (asr) able to exploit the car’s four-wheel  drive capabilities to the full on challenging surfaces.
to manage all the available performance a control selector mounted on the centre console enables the driver to choose between four different operating modes.
gas 2 what is the future of fuel?
reply name * email * website notify me of follow-up comments by email.
combined with a raised and dominating driving position it has everything in place to reward its drivers and offer a range of new driving experiences not previously found in a conventional hybrid vehicle.
high-voltage battery pack the ni-mh (nickel metal hydride) batteries are located under the boot  floor, near the electric motor.
everything is controlled electronically (“by wire”) and there are no mechanical links between the front and the rear drivetrains.
on the instrument panel the left-hand dial indicates the percentage of  power used or recovered during phases of braking or deceleration.
a maximum torque of 500 nm is available, split with 300nm at the front from the hdi diesel engine and 200 nm at the rear generated by the electric motor.
return to top of page copyright © 2012 ·
it  generates a constant torque of 100 nm, or a peak of 200 nm when necessary.
the  inverter controls the torque of the electric motor by regulating the electrical  current supplied from the high-voltage battery pack.
to improve performance even further a second-generation stop & start system is also used.
these switches, located above the centre console, add a further touch of style to the in-car ambience.
at the front, peugeot’s latest design cues have been adapted to match  the 3008′s generous dimensions and to mark a break with existing models.
the gear lever with its modern and elegant design is a key feature of the hybrid4 technology.
a maximum combined power output of 200 bhp the peugeot 3008 crossover, with hybrid4 technology, is the first diesel ‘full hybrid’ production car in the world
man-machine interface a 7” 16/9 colour screen or a multi-function display, according to the  car’s specification, informs the driver in real time of the operating  status of the hybrid power train.
* “auto” mode: the entire system is automatically controlled,  including operation of the hdi diesel engine and the electric motor.
this system assesses the size of a space  during parking manoeuvres and determines the possibility of parking in it.
with the peugeot 3008 equipped with hybrid4 technology, the aim is to  appeal to customers who expect both environmental-friendliness and  technological sophistication, and also genuine driving enjoyment.
peace of mind offered by the safety inherent in a four-wheel drive vehicle *
these switches, located above the centre console, add a further touch of  style to the in-car ambience.
the 3008 hybrid4 also  proudly wears the marque’s new lion badge on its bonnet.
electric motor the synchronous permanent magnet electric motor is located at the rear of  the vehicle.
it significantly reduces fuel consumption and emissions in urban driving conditions while also enabling.the hdi diesel engine to be restarted instantly and smoothly, when required.
the use of diesel hybrid technology also brings a range of other benefits: * high performance combined with excellent driveability * freedom and simplicity of use with the possibility of choosing four different operating modes: zev (zero emission vehicle), four-wheel drive, auto and sport * silent operation, when driving in electric only mode *
man-machine interface a 7” 16/9 colour screen or a multi-function display, according to the car’s specification, informs the driver in real time of the operating status of the hybrid power train.
this system assesses the size of a space during parking manoeuvres and determines the possibility of parking in it.
the costs of the rear module are, therefore, reduced because of the  technical possibility of deploying the same hybrid4 technology into different  market segments, in different body shapes, etc…, regardless of the type  of internal combustion engine used.
peugeot’s choice of the diesel  hybrid demonstrates that it is possible to combine uncompromising environmental  demands with driving experiences not previously available in a hybrid vehicle.
the maximum combined power output is 200 bhp, 163 bhp from the 2.0  litre hdi fap diesel engine and 37 bhp from the electric motor.
the esp system fitted to the 3008 hybrid4 incorporates an “improved traction control system” (asr) able to exploit the car’s four-wheel drive capabilities to the full on challenging surfaces.
this provides optimal driving for fuel consumption and dynamic performance * “zev” mode (zero emission vehicle) provides access to an extensive all-electric mode.
an expansive fascia panel, controls within easy hand’s reach and an ergonomic centre console clearly separate the territory of the “pilot”.
the maximum combined power output is 200 bhp, 163 bhp from the 2.0 litre hdi fap diesel engine and 37 bhp from the electric motor.
the ptmu is the electronic control unit that automatically manages the different operating modes of the hdi diesel engine and the electric motor, programmed to optimise fuel consumption.
the hdi diesel engine drives the front wheels, while the  electric motor (in the rear drive train) drives the rear wheels.
at the end of 2010, peugeot will become the first to launch a latest-generation 100% electric vehicle in europe, the peugeot i0n.
first diesel hybrid vehicle *
it enhances the technological ambience in the same way as  the 7” colour display which provides information on the flow of energy.
high-voltage battery pack the ni-mh (nickel metal hydride) batteries are located under the boot floor, near the electric motor.
firstly, it avoids the need for any major redesign of the vehicle’s  engine compartment, while also improving weight distribution.
a maximum  torque of 500 nm is available, split with 300nm at the front from the hdi  diesel engine and 200 nm at the rear generated by the electric motor.
* four-wheel drive mode (4wd) instructs both power trains to operate  together as far as possible; the rear wheels are driven by the electric motor  and the front wheels by the hdi diesel engine.
it also shows, for a given journey, operating times in different modes and the status of the battery charge.
the performance of the  system can be enhanced by the fitment of optional 16”
the costs of the rear module are, therefore, reduced because of the technical possibility of deploying the same hybrid4 technology into different market segments, in different body shapes, etc…, regardless of the type of internal combustion engine used.
lifestyle theme on genesis framework · wordpress · log in
at the rear, the rear spoiler has a two-tone finish with a high gloss black section, helping to differentiate it from the other 3008 models in the range, as do the chrome badges which decorate the sides and rear of the car.
powered by a 2.0 litre 163 bhp hdi diesel engine and a 37bhp electric motor * potential 74.4mpg, with 99g/km of co2 * all electric mode (zero emission vehicle)
ptmu (power train management unit)
energy recovery an energy recovery system (the electric motor becomes a generator) enables the kinetic energy created by the vehicle to be transformed into electrical energy to recharge the ni-mh batteries during deceleration (release of the accelerator pedal and during braking).
at the front, peugeot’s latest design cues have been adapted to match the 3008′s generous dimensions and to mark a break with existing models.
suppliers to develop its hybrid4 technology, the psa peugeot citroën group has teamed up with suppliers offering the best expertise in each field.
for example, to ensure that the driver never needs to take an eye off the  road ahead, and as in a jet aircraft, essential driving information is  projected onto a retractable transparent panel which cleverly extends from the  instrument panel.
hybrid technology uses two power trains which can  operate alternately or simultaneously: *
the original layout of the hybrid4 system allows for the possibility of  four-wheel drive.
it also leaves intact the possibility of using a range of different capacity engines, for possible future introduction.
a distinctive design the new peugeot 3008 hybrid4 is distinguished by its cutting-edge technology, combining responsible driving and driving enjoyment, but also by its specific styling.
to  obtain this level of performance it uses peugeot’s latest generation eccs  (extreme conventional combustion system) combustion chamber design, a  variable-geometry low-inertia turbocharger, a high-pressure injection pump  allowing a maximum pressure of 2000 bar and solenoid injectors with eight  apertures.
hybrid4 technology brings together peugeot’s best technologies and experience: hdi diesel engines, electric vehicle knowledge, second-generation stop & start and electronically-controlled sequential manual gearboxes.
the ptmu is the electronic control unit that automatically manages the  different operating modes of the hdi diesel engine and the electric motor,  programmed to optimise fuel consumption.
latest-generation stop & start system this system places the hdi diesel engine in standby when the vehicle is at  a standstill (at traffic lights, a stop sign or in a traffic jam, etc) and when  the vehicle is being driven in electric-only mode.
the 3008 hybrid4 will be produced in france (in sochaux and mulhouse) and  marketed in the spring of 2011 in europe.
the use of diesel hybrid technology also brings a range of other benefits: * high performance combined with excellent driveability * freedom and simplicity of use with the possibility of choosing four  different operating modes: zev (zero emission vehicle), four-wheel drive, auto  and sport * silent operation, when driving in electric only mode *
in terms of performance, the peugeot 3008 hybrid4 benefits from the combined power of the hdi diesel engine and electric motor during acceleration and when an immediate surge of power is required (the “boost” function).
a maximum combined power output of 200 bhp the peugeot 3008 crossover, with hybrid4 technology, is the first diesel  ‘full hybrid’ production car in the world
this  provides optimal driving for fuel consumption and dynamic performance * “zev” mode (zero emission vehicle) provides access to an  extensive all-electric mode.
it also shows, for a given journey, operating  times in different modes and the status of the battery charge.
these include a juke-box function, linked to a hard disc, peugeot connect services, gsm function, a usb connector, a dvd player, a bluetooth® system and a display which shows specific buildings in full 3d. the peugeot 3008 hybrid4 is a crossover with an exceptional technological content offering unique versatility and safety, unrivalled driving enjoyment and co2 emissions of a very low level.
the converter reduces the 200 volts from  the high-voltage battery pack into 12 volts to supply the vehicle’s  onboard systems.
this gives  the system many advantages over a “traditional” mechanical system.
an  expansive fascia panel, controls within easy hand’s reach and an  ergonomic centre console clearly separate the territory of the  “pilot”.
environmental friendliness with co2 emissions from 99g/km the peugeot 3008 hybrid4 is designed to appeal to demanding, technophile  customers who are in search of a rewarding and original vehicle.
this frees up a  gigantic 1501 litre compartment that is easy to load.
powered by a 2.0 litre 163 bhp hdi diesel engine and a 37bhp electric  motor * potential 74.4mpg, with 99g/km of co2 * all electric mode (zero emission vehicle)
to manage all the available performance a control selector mounted on the  centre console enables the driver to choose between four different operating  modes.
as its name implies, this function  helps the driver to keep aware of the safe distance from the vehicle in front,  according to the 3008′s speed.
on the instrument panel the left-hand dial indicates the percentage of power used or recovered during phases of braking or deceleration.
the performance of the hybrid4 is  therefore directly comparable to that obtained with a single hdi diesel engine  of a much higher capacity, with good levels of responsiveness backed by a real  breakthrough in terms of reduced fuel consumption and co2 emissions (around 35  % less in the combined cycle for equivalent performance).
a real breakthrough in terms of reducing fuel consumption and co2  emissions, while improving dynamic performance levels, providing four-wheel  drive and an electric only mode, hybrid4 technology brings a number of benefits  without compromises.
the choice of hybrid architecture was also guided by the search for optimal efficiency and consistency.
with their exceptional efficiency, hdi diesel engines are thermodynamically more efficient than a petrol engine and offer a 30% reduction in fuel consumption.
the driver will, therefore, no longer be concerned by the prospect of a slippery track or a snowbound uphill drive to a ski resort * sport” mode favours quicker gear changes at higher engine speeds than normal mode.
the peugeot connect 3-d media navigation (ng4) includes all the benefits of  the marque’s existing satellite navigation systems.