detroit diesel corporation is a leading  manufacturer of on-highway diesel engines for the commercial truck market.
press room wear your heart on your sleeve.
this proprietary process was  designed to recycle used dpfs and save customers downtime with its  groundbreaking exchange program.
when  the epa07 emissions standard launched more than two years ago, the engineers at  detroit diesel remanufacturing knew they had an opportunity to help customers  save money by designing an innovative dpf cleaning technology.
the result was a  de-ionized water technology that restores dpfs to approximately 95 percent of  their original effectiveness.
not only is the detroit diesel remanufactured dpf  restored to almost-new, it saves our customers money because the remanufactured  dpf is more cost effective than a new part,” said richard marcis, manager  of reliabilt® product engineering for detroit diesel.
headquartered in redford, mich., detroit diesel corporation is engaged in the  design, manufacture, sale and service of these products, in addition to  supporting alternative and hybrid engine strategies for the commercial truck  marketplace.
detroit diesel is adaimler company.
detroit diesel continues its  remanufacturing leadership with its pioneering and environmentally-friendly  diesel particulate filter (dpf) cleaning process.
the result was a de-ionized water technology that restores dpfs to approximately 95 percent of their original effectiveness.
detroit diesel service outlets are stocked with dpfs for a quick  exchange.
with more than 800 locations in north  america, detroit diesel’s trained and qualified technicians are ready to  assist customers with their dpf exchanges.
as customers with epa07 equipment  begin to approach the required dpf change intervals, they can rest assured that  switching their dpf using detroit diesel’s process will mean minimal  downtime.
detroit diesel’s technology is the  industry benchmark for effectiveness, meaning customers will get longer life  from their reliabilt® dpf and the convenience of a quick exchange program.
<< back - engines - parts - support network - bluetec - company - media center - privacy - site map - merchandise specifications are subject to change without notice.
in the news check out what's happening at detroit diesel.
as customers with epa07 equipment begin to approach the required dpf change intervals, they can rest assured that switching their dpf using detroit diesel’s process will mean minimal downtime.
detroit diesel press releases detroit diesel continues innovation and environmental leadership with  diesel particulate filter cleaning and recycling 5/13/2009 redford,  mich.
“detroit diesel  is committed to providing economical, environmentally friendly solutions at the  highest level of quality.”
since launching its dpf cleaning program, the company has recycled more than  7,000 filters.
not only is the detroit diesel remanufactured dpf restored to almost-new, it saves our customers money because the remanufactured dpf is more cost effective than a new part,” said richard marcis, manager of reliabilt® product engineering for detroit diesel.
search: - facebook - twitter - flickr - youtube - engines - axles - parts - support network - bluetec scr - company - media center
after the exchange is used, dpfs are shipped to detroit diesel remanufacturing where they undergo an exclusive cleaning process.
when the epa07 emissions standard launched more than two years ago, the engineers at detroit diesel remanufacturing knew they had an opportunity to help customers save money by designing an innovative dpf cleaning technology.
detroit diesel continues its remanufacturing leadership with its pioneering and environmentally-friendly diesel particulate filter (dpf) cleaning process.
detroit diesel service outlets are stocked with dpfs for a quick exchange.
with more than 800 locations in north america, detroit diesel’s trained and qualified technicians are ready to assist customers with their dpf exchanges.
detroit diesel corporation is a daimler company.
detroit diesel press releases detroit diesel continues innovation and environmental leadership with diesel particulate filter cleaning and recycling 5/13/2009 redford, mich.
detroit diesel corporation is a leading manufacturer of on-highway diesel engines for the commercial truck market.
since launching its dpf cleaning program, the company has recycled more than 7,000 filters.
check out what's happening at detroit diesel.
get detroit merchandise now.
…or your vest, or your mug or your hat.
this proprietary process was designed to recycle used dpfs and save customers downtime with its groundbreaking exchange program.
“detroit diesel is committed to providing economical, environmentally friendly solutions at the highest level of quality.”
remanufacturing is the ultimate form of recycling and detroit diesel has been a leading remanufacturing company for years.
go to  www.detroitdiesel.com/supportnetwork to find a nearby location stocked not only  with dpfs, but genuine detroit diesel parts, maintenance products and reliabilt  remanufactured components.
detroit diesel corporation is registered to iso 9001:2008.
detroit diesel’s technology is the industry benchmark for effectiveness, meaning customers will get longer life from their reliabilt® dpf and the convenience of a quick exchange program.
copyright © detroit diesel corporation.
remanufacturing is the ultimate form of recycling and detroit diesel has  been a leading remanufacturing company for years.
go to www.detroitdiesel.com/supportnetwork to find a nearby location stocked not only with dpfs, but genuine detroit diesel parts, maintenance products and reliabilt remanufactured components.
headquartered in redford, mich., detroit diesel corporation is engaged in the design, manufacture, sale and service of these products, in addition to supporting alternative and hybrid engine strategies for the commercial truck marketplace.
after the exchange is used, dpfs are shipped to detroit diesel  remanufacturing where they undergo an exclusive cleaning process.