“this bid award is the result of several years of collaborative effort  among manufacturers, school districts and government agencies to change the  school bus market.”
this material may not be copied, sold or redistributed in any form without the written permission of advanced energy.
the company develops, designs and produces drive systems and related components for electric, hybrid-electric, and fuel cell powered vehicles.
larry shirley state energy office, a division of the  n.c. department of administration progress energy “progress energy is proud to  partner with advanced energy corporation on this innovative project.
the companys core competencies are focused on the development and commercialization of power management and conversion systems for mobile and stationary applications.
using hybrid technology to cleanly power our childrens school buses can help reduce transportation costs, create new jobs and cut our dependence on imported fossil fuels.
enova applies unique enabling technologies in the areas of alternative energy propulsion systems for medium and heavy-duty vehicles as well as power conditioning and management systems for distributed generation systems.
about ic corporation ic corporation, the  nation’s largest integrated school bus manufacturer, is a wholly owned  subsidiary of international truck and engine corporation.
“we’re proud that advanced energy  recognizes the need to help our nation’s school districts with  energy-efficient school buses.
larry shirley director state energy office, a division of the n.c. department of administration progress energy progress energy is proud to partner with advanced energy corporation on this innovative project.
reno, nev. (july 25, 2006)
by being one of the first states in the  nation to utilize this emerging technology, north carolina is leading by  example.”
both ic and international are subsidiaries of  navistar international corporation (nyse: nav).
this material may  not be copied, sold or redistributed in any form without the written permission  of advanced energy.
" randy brecheisen president and chief executive officer piedmont  electric membership corporation n.c. state energy office “the state energy  office is proud to be a sponsor of the hybrid electric bus project because of  the many benefits it will bring to north carolina’s citizens, economy and  environment.
about enova systems, inc. enova systems is a leading supplier of efficient, environmentally friendly digital power components and systems products.
" randy brecheisen president and chief executive officer piedmont electric membership corporation n.c. state energy office the state energy office is proud to be a sponsor of the hybrid electric bus project because of the many benefits it will bring to north carolinas citizens, economy and environment.
in addition, even though current international diesel engines on many existing school buses produce no visible smoke and minimal emissions, the hybrid program will reduce engine emissions even further.
both ic and international are subsidiaries of navistar international corporation (nyse: nav).
ic corporation, in collaboration with enova systems, unveiled the  nation’s first hybrid school bus two weeks ago at the new york association  of pupil transportation (nyapt) show.
through its plug-in hybrid electric school bus project, advanced energy, a raleigh, n.c.-based nonprofit corporation, initiated a buyers consortium of school districts, state energy agencies and student transportation providers.
ellen ruff duke energy
ic corporations parent company, international truck and engine corporation, is working extensively on hybrid trucks for the utility and delivery industries.
south carolina department of educations (2 buses) state of new york (2 buses) florida department of education (2 buses) napa valley unified school district, napa valley, calif.
the system recovers kinetic energy during regenerative braking, charging  the batteries while the bus is slowing down.
faqs plug-in hybrid electric school bus 11 states are first in the nation to receive hybrid school buses as ic  corporation awarded bid by advanced energyconsortium corporation  works with enova systems to supply first hybrid school buses that can attain up  to 40 percent increase in fuel efficiency reno, nev. (july 25, 2006) – eleven states will be getting a higher  grade for investing in energy-efficiency this school year.
“this project provides operational benefits to school districts, while  also providing the reduced emissions desired by the u.s. environmental  protection agency and a valuable return on investment to school boards,”  said ewan pritchard, p.e., advanced energy’s hybrid program manager.
these members of advanced energys buyers consortium are currently scheduled to receive buses: the hybrid school bus project features enova's post-transmission 80-kilowatt hybrid drive system and was extensively tested and evaluated at ic corporations research and technology facility in fort wayne, ind.
bringing about positive change in the marketplace in regards to this type of alternative energy will yield many benefits for north carolina and the nation.
advanced energy is also welcoming additional funding at the state and  private level to expand this program to more school districts and other states.
the company develops, designs and  produces drive systems and related components for electric, hybrid-electric,  and fuel cell powered vehicles.
(1 bus) durham school services, everett, wash. (1 bus) lake chelan school district, chelan, wash. (1 bus) city of seattle (1 bus) little rock, ark., school district (1 bus) sigourney community school district, sigourney, iowa (1 bus) nevada community schools, nevada, iowa (1 bus) killeen independent school district, texas (1 bus) austin independent school district, texas (1 bus) fairfax county, va. (1 bus) jennings transportation, nazareth, pa.
with fuel prices near all-time highs, new innovations in hybrid technology are needed to help customers in the school bus industry keep their operating costs lower, said michael cancelliere, vice president and general manager of ic corporation.
about advanced energy advanced energy is a raleigh-based nonprofit corporation that enables utility customers to improve returns on their energy investments.
“the hybrid electric school bus  project is an exciting example of how key stakeholders from the utility  industry, business and government can form partnerships that produce great  benefits for communities in which we live.”
“with fuel prices near all-time highs, new innovations in hybrid  technology are needed to help customers in the school bus industry keep their  operating costs lower,” said michael cancelliere, vice president and  general manager of ic corporation.
funding to support advanced energy’s initiative has come from north  carolina’s electric utilities (duke energy, progress energy, dominion  north carolina power and north carolina electric cooperatives) and the state  energy office in north carolina.
fred day president and ceo, progress energy carolinas member, advanced energy board of directors © advanced energy.
ic corporation, in collaboration with enova systems, unveiled the nations first hybrid school bus two weeks ago at the new york association of pupil transportation (nyapt) show.
the hybrid school bus is expected to  attain a 40 percent increase in fuel efficiency, which becomes even more  essential with the rising fuel costs affecting many school districts.
enova applies unique ‘enabling  technologies’ in the areas of alternative energy propulsion systems for  medium and heavy-duty vehicles as well as power conditioning and management  systems for distributed generation systems.
this provides additional power for acceleration, making school buses ideal candidates for hybrid technology because of the frequent stops and starts they perform along their daily routes.
duke energy is proud to support research and market development of alternative and more energy efficient technologies, said ellen ruff, president of duke energy carolinas.
the hybrid electric school bus project  represents a collaborative effort among many parties to improve the  nation’s air quality.
the hybrid bus announcement is the continuation of research and development  for new technology in a number of different vehicles.
fred day president and ceo, progress energy carolinas member,  advanced energy board of directors 919 857-9000    |    800  869-8001 [toll free]    |    919 832-2696 [fax] 909 capability drive, suite 2100    |     raleigh, nc 27606-3870
new york,  california, texas, florida, pennsylvania, virginia, north carolina, south  carolina, arkansas, iowa and washington will be the first states in the nation  to receive hybrid school buses.
advanced energy is also welcoming additional funding at the state and private level to expand this program to more school districts and other states.
ic corporation is committed to environmental leadership and delivering value to our customers, said cancelliere.
quotes from project funders dominion north carolina power "dominion is pleased that our contribution to advanced energys hybrid electric school bus project is being used to further the development of alternative technologies that will benefit north carolinas citizens.
“we believe  that diesel-electric hybrid technology can be made commercially viable for the  school bus industry and this collaboration is the next step in making that a  reality.”
carolinas n.c. electric cooperatives "collaborating with  advanced energy to help commercialize hybrid vehicle technology has been an  important endeavor for the north carolina electric cooperatives.
were proud that advanced energy recognizes the need to help our nations school districts with energy-efficient school buses.
additional information is  available on their website at:www.ic-corp.com.
for further information, contact enova systems  directly, or visit its web site atwww.enovasystems.com.
as the  carolinas continues to grow, we must ensure the right balance of energy  efficiency, alternative energy and new energy sources, and these plug-in hybrid  buses will help us and others learn more about this promising technology.”
creating economic, environmental and societal  benefits through innovative and market-based approaches  to energy issues © advanced energy.
we believe that diesel-electric hybrid technology can be made commercially viable for the school bus industry and this collaboration is the next step in making that a reality.
dominion broadly supports research and development into programs and technologies aimed at minimizing environmental impacts and promoting the efficient use of energy and natural resources." pamela f. faggert vice president and chief environmental officer dominion resources services inc. duke energy carolinas duke energy is proud to support research and market development of alternative and more energy efficiency technologies.
through its plug-in hybrid electric school bus  project, advanced energy, a raleigh, n.c.-based nonprofit corporation,  initiated a buyer’s consortium of school districts, state energy agencies  and student transportation providers.
using hybrid technology to cleanly power our children’s  school buses can help reduce transportation costs, create new jobs and cut our  dependence on imported fossil fuels.
about ic corporation ic corporation, the nations largest integrated school bus manufacturer, is a wholly owned subsidiary of international truck and engine corporation.
the corporation also strives to create environmental, economic and societal benefits through innovative and market-based approaches to energy.
the hybrid school bus is expected to attain a 40 percent increase in fuel efficiency, which becomes even more essential with the rising fuel costs affecting many school districts.
the system is  based on a parallel architecture, allowing the system to utilize both diesel  and electric power in a highly efficient manner.
“ic corporation is committed to environmental leadership and  delivering value to our customers,” said cancelliere.
the  initial powertrain for the hybrid school bus will couple an international®  vt365 v8 diesel engine with the 80-kilowatt hybrid-electric powertrain,  incorporating a transmission, batteries and an electric motor.
more information about the program can be found atwww.hybridschoolbus.org.
the project has demonstrated that industry, government and non-profits can successfully work together to improve the environment and encourage the economy.
the hybrid bus announcement is the continuation of research and development for new technology in a number of different vehicles.
ellen ruff president duke energy carolinas n.c. electric cooperatives "collaborating with advanced energy to help commercialize hybrid vehicle technology has been an important endeavor for the north carolina electric cooperatives.
the project has demonstrated that industry,  government and non-profits can successfully work together to improve the  environment and encourage the economy.
these members of advanced energy’s buyers’ consortium are  currently scheduled to receive buses: north carolina department of public instruction (2 buses)
this project provides operational benefits to school districts, while also providing the reduced emissions desired by the u.s. environmental protection agency and a valuable return on investment to school boards, said ewan pritchard, p.e., advanced energys hybrid program manager.
in addition, even though current international  diesel engines on many existing school buses produce no visible smoke and  minimal emissions, the hybrid program will reduce engine emissions even  further.”
the initial powertrain for the hybrid school bus will couple an international® vt365 v8 diesel engine with the 80-kilowatt hybrid-electric powertrain, incorporating a transmission, batteries and an electric motor.
ic corporation’s  parent company, international truck and engine corporation, is working  extensively on hybrid trucks for the utility and delivery industries.
dominion broadly  supports research and development into programs and technologies aimed at  minimizing environmental impacts and promoting the efficient use of energy and  natural resources."
the hybrid electric school bus project is an exciting example of how key stakeholders from the utility industry, business and government can form partnerships that produce great benefits for communities in which we live.
bringing about  positive change in the marketplace in regards to this type of alternative  energy will yield many benefits for north carolina and the nation.
by being one of the first states in the nation to utilize this emerging technology, north carolina is leading by example.
after issuing nationwiderequest for  proposals (rfps)  for hybrid school buses in june 2006, advanced energy  announced today at the 13th annual school transportation news expo that ic  corporation, the nation’s largest school bus manufacturer, won the bid and  will provide up to 19 hybrid school buses to those 11 states.
additional information is available on their website at:www.ic-corp.com.
for further information, contact enova systems directly, or visit its web site atwww.enovasystems.com.
the hybrid electric school bus project is an exciting  example of how key stakeholders from the utility industry, business and  government can form partnerships that produce great benefits for communities in  which we live.”
the system recovers kinetic energy during regenerative braking, charging the batteries while the bus is slowing down.
this bid award is the result of several years of collaborative effort among manufacturers, school districts and government agencies to change the school bus market.
about enova systems, inc. enova systems is a leading  supplier of efficient, environmentally friendly digital power components and  systems products.
new york, california, texas, florida, pennsylvania, virginia, north carolina, south carolina, arkansas, iowa and washington will be the first states in the nation to receive hybrid school buses.
the company’s core competencies are focused on the  development and commercialization of power management and conversion systems  for mobile and stationary applications.
international  produces school bus chassis, mid-range diesel engines, medium trucks, heavy  trucks, severe service vehicles, and is a provider of parts and service sold  under the international brand.
funding to support advanced energys initiative has come from north carolinas electric utilities (duke energy, progress energy, dominion north carolina power and north carolina electric cooperatives) and the state energy office in north carolina.
as the carolinas continues to grow, we must ensure the right balance of energy efficiency, alternative energy and new energy sources, and these plug-in hybrid buses will help us and others learn more about this promising technology.
the hybrid school bus project features enova's post-transmission  80-kilowatt hybrid drive system and was extensively tested and evaluated at ic  corporation’s research and technology facility in fort wayne, ind.
international produces school bus chassis, mid-range diesel engines, medium trucks, heavy trucks, severe service vehicles, and is a provider of parts and service sold under the international brand.
quotes from project funders dominion north carolina power "dominion is  pleased that our contribution to advanced energy’s hybrid electric school  bus project is being used to further the development of alternative  technologies that will benefit north carolina’s citizens.
this provides additional power for  acceleration, making school buses ideal candidates for hybrid technology  because of the frequent stops and starts they perform along their daily routes.
the corporation also strives to create  environmental, economic and societal benefits through innovative and  market-based approaches to energy.
eleven states will be getting a higher grade for investing in energy-efficiency this school year.
the hybrid electric school bus project represents a collaborative effort among many parties to improve the nations air quality.
the system is based on a parallel architecture, allowing the system to utilize both diesel and electric power in a highly efficient manner.
“duke energy is proud to support research and market development of  alternative and more energy efficient technologies,” said ellen ruff,  president of duke energy carolinas.
pamela f. faggert vice president and chief environmental officer dominion resources services inc. duke energy carolinas “duke energy is proud to  support research and market development of alternative and more energy  efficiency technologies.
after issuing nationwiderequest for proposals (rfps) for hybrid school buses in june 2006, advanced energy announced today at the 13th annual school transportation news expo that ic corporation, the nations largest school bus manufacturer, won the bid and will provide up to 19 hybrid school buses to those 11 states.
about advanced energy advanced energy is a  raleigh-based nonprofit corporation that enables utility customers to improve  returns on their energy investments.