modot has used enough recycled tires in  its construction projects over the past two years to equip 20,000 cars.
by recycling asphalt shingles, modot keeps them out of landfills, preserve petroleum resources and lower our construction costs while maintaining high quality asphalt pavement.
to conserve energy and paper, modot has begun providing project plans via the internet, a move that will save about $200,000 a year.
" first, the surface of the  road is heated.
here are a few: more than 45% of the diesel fuel purchased by modot in fy ‘07 was  biodiesel, or b20.
"there's no reason to dump materials into our landfills that can be  recycled," says joe schroer, modot field materials engineer.
in recent years, modot has allowed contractors to put used shingles that  have been removed from rooftops into their asphalt mix.
recycling takes place on a  gigantic scale with modot.
"modot wants to be a leader for recycling, conserving and being  environmentally aware," said schroer.
when reconstruction of a 10-mile stretch of interstate 64 in  the heart of st. louis is completed in 2010, 325,000 tons of concrete and  asphalt will be recycled and reused in the new highway.
in 2007, 15 projects were completed using  measures to ensure the safety of nine protected species.
modot replaced wetlands at a rate of three acres to one on projects built in 2007.
retrieved  from "http://epg.modot.mo.gov/index.php?title=environmentally_friendly "
modot's efforts to use alternative fuels has been at the forefront of the nation.
here is how the department makes that idea a reality.
modot's efforts to use alternative fuels has been at the forefront of the  nation.
by reusing tear-off shingles, the department  reduces the amount that ends up in landfills.
in november of 2008, the national conference of state fleet administrators  bestowed its 2008 honda environmental leadership award to modot's fleet  management team.
2.2 modot recycles roads and bridges 3 resource conservation alternative fuels one of the hybrid vehicles used by modot modot uses more ethanol and biodiesel fuel a year - three million gallons  of e-85 and b20 - than all other state agencies combined.
modot has exceeded these mandates, achieving 34.4 miles per gallon for passenger cars and 23.8 miles per gallon for light duty trucks.
once the shingles have been processed, they are turned into  materials for missouri roads beyond the cost savings, this practice also helps modot in its efforts to  be environmentally responsible.
area landfill managers tell modot that  3.56 billion pounds is the equivalent of 89,000 semi-truck loads that would  fill the empire state building four times.
by reusing tear-off shingles, the department reduces the amount that ends up in landfills.
the idea of taking care of what we have has always been at the core of modot's environmental philosophy.
retrieved from "http://epg.modot.mo.gov/index.php?title=environmentally_friendly "
" modot is working with other agencies and organizations nationally to refine the specifications for the use of asphalt shingles as a hot-mix asphalt material.
that’s enough  fuel to drive a car to mars and back.
modot has exceeded these  mandates, achieving 34.4 miles per gallon for passenger cars and 23.8 miles per  gallon for light duty trucks.
sometimes, the department recycles entire sections of roads!
shingles are ground up and processed once the shingles have been processed, they are turned into materials for missouri roads.
modot can actually reuse asphalt directly in place by heating it, processing it on the road and relaying it.
during 2009, modot recycled more than two billion pounds of waste from construction projects and 6.2 million pounds of paper, cardboard, aluminum and electronics.
that is how many  total pounds of waste modot has either recycled back into our roads or kept  from area landfills from 2005 through 2009.
modot participated in a pilot group that tested hybrid aerial trucks --  all other participants were private utility companies.
recycling takes place on a gigantic scale with modot.
modot has earned a large amount of biodiesel tax credits in the amount of  $453,898.
modot has recycled 3.56 billion pounds of industrial waste from mines,  steel furnaces and power plants, as well as shingles and tires over these five  years.
the refurbished  material is ready for a new asphalt overlay without leaving the site.
"we hope to increase our  efforts in the future.
that's a lot of retreads.
under the trees for tomorrow program, modot and  its partner, the missouri department of conservation, is providing half a  million trees a year to youth groups throughout the state through 2012.
in fact, the department received the missouri recycling  association’s outstanding use of recycled material award in 2008.
recycling we're not just separating glass from plastic.
in recent years, modot has allowed contractors to put used shingles that have been removed from rooftops into their asphalt mix.
missouri law requires new state vehicles to meet or exceed the corporate  average fuel efficiency standards of 27.5 miles per gallon for passenger cars  and 20.7 miles per gallon for light duty trucks.
the ncsfa specifically noted several of modot’s environmentally  friendly accomplishments.
to conserve energy and paper, modot has begun  providing project plans via the internet, a move that will save about $200,000  a year.
"there's no reason to dump materials into our landfills that can be recycled," says joe schroer, modot field materials engineer.
many of the miles of pavement you drive on and projects you see across missouri are made of recycled material; in fact, modot has recycled 4.86 billion pounds of reclaimed material that has been used on construction projects since 2005.
this helps our environment and saves taxpayer money too.
during 2009, modot recycled more than two billion pounds of waste from  construction projects and 6.2 million pounds of paper, cardboard, aluminum and  electronics.
resource conservation the idea of taking care of what we have has always been at the core of  modot's environmental philosophy.
when one thinks of environmentally friendly practices, building roads and bridges might not come to mind.
"modot embraces being green and we're getting better at it every day.
modot crews clean up more than 80,000 car tires – about 600 tons – that are left on state highways every year.
modot crews clean up more than 80,000 car tires  – about 600 tons – that are left on state highways every year.
modot is among the first state agencies in the nation to recycle shingles to resurface or rebuild highways.
about 70 percent of state highway signs are  produced from reclaimed material, making the signs cheaper and faster to get.
in fact, the department recently received an award for it's work in this area.
roofs to roads shingles are ground up and processed modot is among the first state agencies in the nation to recycle shingles  to resurface or rebuild highways.
by recycling asphalt  shingles, modot keeps them out of landfills, preserve petroleum resources and  lower our construction costs while maintaining high quality asphalt pavement.
according to the missouri department of natural  resources, an estimated 146,500 tons of roofing materials are disposed of in  missouri landfills each year.
"we hope to increase our efforts in the future."
the ncsfa specifically noted several of modot’s environmentally friendly accomplishments.
in fact, the department recently received an award for it's work in  this area.
"modot wants to be a leader for recycling, conserving and being environmentally aware," said schroer.
beyond the cost savings, this practice also helps modot in its efforts to be environmentally responsible.
the program helps replace trees taken down during highway construction.
in 2007, 15 projects were completed using measures to ensure the safety of nine protected species.
modot embraces new ideas that not only help us become a more cost-efficient agency, but a more environmentally friendly one, too.
recycling accolades.
yet modot strives every day to protect, conserve, restore and enhance our natural resource while dealing with the challenges of planning, designing, building, maintaining and operating a complex transportation infrastructure.
sometimes, the department recycles entire sections  of roads!
that may  not sound like much at first, but consider this: a typical resurfacing project  would use about 30,000 tons of asphalt, for a savings of $90,000 to $150,000.
using reclaimed materials on signs saved $714,000 in 2007.
in november of 2008, the national conference of state fleet administrators bestowed its 2008 honda environmental leadership award to modot's fleet management team.
many of the miles of  pavement you drive on and projects you see across missouri are made of recycled  material; in fact, modot has recycled 4.86 billion pounds of reclaimed material  that has been used on construction projects since 2005.
by using recycled asphalt shingles, the  department reduces the amount of liquid asphalt in a mix design by 20 percent  to 25 percent." modot has incorporated a variety of waste materials on roadways," said  joe schroer, field materials engineer.
shingle recycling also helps modot reduce the amount of petroleum it uses  in its road construction program.
modot keeps billions of pounds of waste from  landfills 8,417,020,000 is quite a large number.
interstate 29 after thehot in-place recycling treatment.
the use of recycled shingles saves $3 to $5 per ton of asphalt.
it is processed using specialized equipment that scarifies it  on the road while mixing in a rejuvenating agent.
the  program helps replace trees taken down during highway construction.
in the past three years, modot's e85 bulk sites have expanded from two to  seven facilities.
these tires are ground up and used as fuel for power plants.
the process is called "hot  in-place recycling" and it saves missourians millions of dollars every  year.
modot keeps billions of pounds of waste from landfills modot has recycled 3.56 billion pounds of industrial waste from mines, steel furnaces and power plants, as well as shingles and tires over these five years.
that may not sound like much at first, but consider this: a typical resurfacing project would use about 30,000 tons of asphalt, for a savings of $90,000 to $150,000.
" modot is working with other agencies and organizations nationally to refine  the specifications for the use of asphalt shingles as a hot-mix asphalt  material.
the result is a very durable, more-rut resistant asphalt at a much lower price.
when designing projects modot keeps sensitive  species and habitats in mind.
in 2007, modot used more than three million tons of  asphalt containing recycled material – about the weight of all the people  in missouri, kansas, iowa, arkansas, illinois, oklahoma, nebraska and tennessee  combined.
modot replaced wetlands at a rate of three acres  to one on projects built in 2007.
industrial waste is usually disposed of in landfills, but modot has recycled every pound for future uses.
industrial waste is usually disposed of in landfills, but modot has  recycled every pound for future uses.
the recycled  asphalt is then spread back across the lane.
here are a few: we're not just separating glass from plastic.
this helps our  environment and saves taxpayer money too.
here is how the department makes that idea a  reality.
the process is called "hot in-place recycling" and it saves missourians millions of dollars every year.
under the trees for tomorrow program, modot and its partner, the missouri department of conservation, is providing half a million trees a year to youth groups throughout the state through 2012.
according to the missouri department of natural resources, an estimated 146,500 tons of roofing materials are disposed of in missouri landfills each year.
modot uses more ethanol and biodiesel fuel a year - three million gallons of e-85 and b20 - than all other state agencies combined.
shingles are ground up and processed once the shingles have been  processed, they are turned into materials for missouri roads.
that’s enough fuel to drive a car to mars and back.
"however, we are on the cutting  edge nationally for our efforts to reuse roofing shingles.
using the latest technology, modot can actually  recycle entire asphalt roads.
in the past four years, modot has used enough  recycled shingles to roof 305 houses.
modot's effort are recognized by leaders in  the recycling industry.
the result is a very  durable, more-rut resistant asphalt at a much lower price.
modot recycles roads and bridges modot can actually reuse asphalt directly in place by heating it,  processing it on the road and relaying it.
missouri law requires new state vehicles to meet or exceed the corporate average fuel efficiency standards of 27.5 miles per gallon for passenger cars and 20.7 miles per gallon for light duty trucks.
" adding to the grand total is reclaimed material.
area landfill managers tell modot that 3.56 billion pounds is the equivalent of 89,000 semi-truck loads that would fill the empire state building four times.
"however, we are on the cutting edge nationally for our efforts to reuse roofing shingles.
modot embraces new ideas that not only help us become a more cost-efficient  agency, but a more environmentally friendly one, too.
shingle recycling also helps modot reduce the amount of petroleum it uses in its road construction program.
when the route 19 missouri river bridge near  hermann was taken down in spring 2008 to make way for a new river crossing,  about 2,000 tons of steel from the structure was recycled.
"modot  embraces being green and we're getting better at it every day.
by using recycled asphalt shingles, the department reduces the amount of liquid asphalt in a mix design by 20 percent to 25 percent." modot has incorporated a variety of waste materials on roadways," said joe schroer, field materials engineer.
when designing projects modot keeps sensitive species and habitats in mind.