the us department of energy (doe) has issued a request for information (rfi) (de-foa-0000592) seeking input from the public on its analysis methodology and assumptions used for estimating the total cost of ownership (tco) of various advanced vehicle technologies within doe’s portfolio that have the potential to significantly reduce greenhouse gas ghg) emissions and petroleum consumption.
march 2011 new vehicle marketshares were 2.7% for hybrids; 0.7% for diesels; and 3.6% for small cars.
bmw efficientdynamics technology  includes an optional eight-speed automatic transmission, and automatic  start/stop function in both manual and automatic transmissions.
more... | comments (3) | trackback (0) study links air pollution and cyclone intensity in arabian sea; suggested  solutions include diesel filters and two-stroke engines running on lpg fuel november 03, 2011 scientists are working to better  understand atmospheric brown clouds and their effects.
the coating provides an option for truck and bus manufacturers challenged by the higher temperatures experienced with new euro vi emissions regulations and testing methods set to be introduced in late 2013.
the engines combine a range of technical solutions to meet the more stringent emission requirements, while the consumption of fuel is as good as scania’s euro 5 engines.
the 81 kw /110 hp variant  uses 4.4 l/100 km (53 mpg us) with 116 g/km.
in the study, they identify desirable fuel characteristics and define optimized biofuel components using a model-based analysis.
more... | comments (5) | trackback (0) jeep grand cherokee to offer new 3.0-liter turbo diesel in europe; more  power, less fuel february 21, 2011
they then chemically hydrogenated the biosynthetic bisabolene into bisabolane.
in their study published in the acs journal environmental science &  technology, they measured tailpipe emissions and in-cabin air pollutant  levels before and after retrofitting when the buses were idling and during  actual pick-up/drop off routes.
one of the most fundamental improvements was  converting the pumpe duse (unit injector) fuel-injection system to a  common-rail design, as well as increasing the capacity by 72 cc thanks to a  1.5-mm wider bore.
in a paper published in nature communications, they suggest that  their work presents a framework for the identification of novel terpene-based  advanced biofuels and the rapid engineering of microbial farnesyl  diphosphate-overproducing platforms for the production of biofuels.
source: peralta-yahya et al.
in the study, they  identify desirable fuel characteristics and define optimized biofuel components  using a model-based analysis.
canadian  natural resources limited (cnrl) partnership will lead to construction of a new  bitumen refinery as part of the government’s bitumen royalty-in-kind  (brik) initiative.
the companies also have agreed to  identify and discuss other possible collaborative projects.
the diesel phev will go on sale in 2012.
among their general conclusions: more... | comments (5) | trackback (0) peugeot will introduce the 508 rxh diesel-electric hybrid, the third model in the 508 range and the second deployment of the hybrid4 diesel-electric drivetrain following its release on the 3008 hybrid4 (earlier post), at the upcoming frankfurt international motor show (iaa) in september.
fiat leads with 126 g/km,  followed by toyota, psa and renault.
all transmissions and engines were developed in-house, with production  taking place at the plants in stuttgart-untertürkheim and -hedelfingen,  rastatt/baden, gaggenau/baden and kölleda/thuringia.
250  bluetec 4matic, which offers an nedc consumption of 6.0 l/100 km (39 mpg us)  with 158 g co2/km) and has a range of up to 1,500 kilometers (932 miles) when  equipped with an optional larger tank (93 liters vs. the standard 70 liters,  the latter good for 1,150 km or 715 miles).
the engine  air is ideally adjusted according to the rpm range and the needs of the two  turbochargers of different size.
pikeforecasts that worldwide deliveries of hybrid buses will nearly triple from 5,514 vehicles in 2010 to 16,328 units in 2016.
although cold-start performance is often related to spark-ignition engines, they note, the potential increased use of new combustion modes improved with lower compression ratios (cr) (e.g., to values between 14:1 and 16:1) to reduce raw nox emissions leads to cold-operation performance issues (start delay, idle stability just after start, and smoke opacity) at low temperatures (20 °c and below).
ford motor company will stage the debut of the new focus econetic next week at the amsterdam motor show.
more... | comments (21) | trackback (0) renault starts production of its new energy dci 130 diesel; 20% lower fuel  consumption than predecessor april 14, 2011
tailor-made fuels from biomass have the potential to reduce emissions of criteria pollutants as well as greenhouse gases significantly in low temperature diesel combustion, according to a new open access study by a team from the institutes for combustion engines and for technical and macromolecular chemistry, rwth aachen university (germany) published in the acs journal energy & fuels.
study explores energy balance of fischer-tropsch diesel via autothermal  reforming of pyrolysis oil from biomass residue; spreadsheet offered as tool may 16, 2011 researchers from the stevens institute of technology, basf catalyst and  golden biomass fuels corporation report on their investigation of an energy  balance, in broad outline, for the production of a high-quality synthetic  diesel from residual crop biomass via a fischer-tropsch route in a paper  published in the acs journalenergy & fuels.
these bowls are all scaled to the same volume.
one leader in terms of fuel consumption for the suv line is the ml 250
the energy commission  has an annual program budget of approximately $100 million to support projects  that: more... | comments (3) | trackback (0) unep study: small number of measures targeting black carbon and  tropospheric ozone could yield immediate climate benefits february 22, 2011 global benefits from full implementation  of the identified measures in 2030 compared to the reference scenario.
more... | comments (5) | trackback (0) at the 2011 geneva motor show, the all-new jeep grand cherokee will debut a new, optional 3.0-liter turbo diesel engine available for europe and other diesel markets.
developed specifically for the european market, this civic will be  offered exclusively as a five-door hatchback and will compete in the c-segment.
mazda motor corporation has begun production of the all-new mazda cx-5  with its new-generation skyactiv-d 2.2-liter diesel engine (earlier post) at  its ujina plant near mazda’s headquarters in hiroshima.
credit: nicolle rager  fuller, national science foundation click to enlarge.
the atlas project is targeting 210 hp and 500 n·m in  its fuel-efficient package.
the us department of energy (doe) has issued a request for information  (rfi) (de-foa-0000592) seeking input from the public on its analysis  methodology and assumptions used for estimating the total cost of ownership  (tco) of various advanced vehicle technologies within doe’s portfolio  that have the potential to significantly reduce greenhouse gas ghg) emissions  and petroleum consumption.
winterkorn noted that there are no limitations to the vehicle’s speed, climbing or towing abilities.
gm has expanded the offering of ecoflex technologies throughout the opel  passenger car portfolio, resulting in reduced fuel consumption and emissions,  along with some gains in output and torque.
the new engine is applied in the bmw m550d xdrive sedan, bmw m550d xdrive touring, bmw x5 m50d and bmw x6 m50d.
hecs is designed and tailored for high egr tolerance and combines low nitrogen oxide emissions with superior fuel efficiency, even under high part load conditions.
more... | comments (8) | trackback (0) study finds use of high cetane fuel reduces all primary pollutants under  advanced diesel combustion mode april 24, 2011 comparison of optimized start of  injection of advanced diesel combustion for brake thermal efficiency, nox, pm,  thc, and co of diesel (open bar); htft (gray bar); and ltft (black bar) fuels.
the new mercedes-benz b-class, which will make its debut at the frankfurt international motor show (13 to 25 september 2011) and go on sale in europe in november, will offer a number of new technologies to lower fuel consumption and co2 emissions, including a new series of four-cylinder gasoline engines with direct injection and turbocharging; a new diesel engine; a new 7-speed dual clutch transmission; a new 6-speed manual transmission; and new assistance systems.
a european study lead by scientists at the university of edinburgh (uk) has  found that the combustion-derived ultrafine particles from diesel fuel are the  predominant mediators of the adverse effects—harming blood vessels and  increasing the chances of blood clots forming in arteries, leading to a heart  attack or stroke.
more... | comments (0) | trackback (0) bmw has introduced a new range of m performance automobiles featuring a new 6-cylinder in-line diesel developed exclusively for those applications.
in a study published in the acs journal energy & fuels, m. p.  ashok of annamalai university, tamil nadu, india reports that adding dimethyl  ether to an ethanol/diesel emulsion results in an increase in brake thermal  efficiency and a decrease in specific fuel consumption (sfc), particulate  matter, smoke density, and oxides of nitrogen compared to either the emulsion  or a base diesel fuel.
percentages for overall consideration (definitely would / probably would) were: more... | comments (34) | trackback (0) us sales of hybrid, diesel, and very small cars outpaced overall growth in the market, according to a newreport by auto analyst firm baum and associates.
this  translates to 10% more power and eight percent more torque than the engine it  replaces.
more... | comments (19) | trackback (0) bae systems and crane carrier company partner on heavy-duty parallel  hybrid-electric propulsion systems for refuse trucks july 19, 2011 bae systems has entered into an agreement with crane carrier company, a us  market leader in the refuse collection vehicle (rcv) industry, tointegrate a  heavy-duty hybrid electric propulsion system into one of its vehicles.
a three-year biofuel trial organized by neste oil, helsinki region  transport (hsl), and proventia has recently been completed, and the results have shown that neste oil’s nexbtl renewable diesel can significantly reduce  local emissions that have a direct impact on urban air quality.
a paper on their work appears in the acs journalenergy & fuels.
more... | comments (8) | trackback (0)
the use of federal-mogul’s durabowl technology  allows piston crown geometries that help to burn fuel more efficiently,  improving combustion efficiency and reducing emissions.
more... | comments (2) | trackback (0) bmw group and toyota motor corporation (tmc) have signed a memorandum of understanding (mou) concerning a mid-to-long-term collaboration on next-generation environment-friendly technologies.
more... | comments (8) | trackback (0) a ucla study of the performance of retrofit systems for diesel-powered school buses has found that while the systems significantly lowered tailpipe emissions, there was no unequivocal decrease for in-cabin air pollutants after retrofitting.
replacing spark-ignition engines with diesel engines and  components would yield fuel savings of about 37% at an added cost of  approximately $5,900 per vehicle, and replacing spark-ignition engines with  hybrid engines and components would reduce fuel consumption by 43% at an  increase of $6,000 per vehicle.
subchart shows the temperature  variation downstream of the dpf and scr catalyst.
cyclox is a  cyclic oxygenate (earlier post) and represents a class of molecules which  improve the fuel-air mixing process and reduce soot.
more... | comments (0) | trackback (0)
more... | comments (18) | trackback (0) mazda to debut next-generation midsize sedan diesel concept and cx-5 suv  with skyactiv technology at tokyo motor show; new push on clean diesels in  japan market october 25, 2011 the takeri diesel concept.
more... | comments (0) | trackback (0) opel cuts fuel consumption in diesel engines for insignia by 12% september 07, 2011 opel engineers have reduced fuel consumption and co2 emissions from the  spectrum of diesel engines for the opel insignia by 12%, while also making the  engines more quiet.
widespread implementation is achievable with existing  technology but would require significant strategic investment and institutional  arrangements, the study found.
cummins is one year into a four year program (atlas, advanced technology  light automotive systems) to develop, in partnership with the us department of  energy (doe), a new light-duty diesel truck engine that will meet tier 2 bin 2  (sulev) emission requirements while achieving at least a 40% fuel economy  improvement (26.1 mpg us vs. 18.6 mpg us, or 9.0 l/100km vs. 12.6 l/100km) over  the gasoline v8 it could replace.
the 1 series  will have a new generation of 1.6-liter gasoline engines: 116i with 100 kw/136  hp; and 118i with 125 kw/170 hp.
more... | comments (2) | trackback (0) volvo upgrades d5 engine; more power, 8% reduction in fuel consumption april 12, 2011 volvo has upgraded the five-cylinder d5 and d3 turbodiesels for application  in the upgraded versions of the volvo v70, xc70 and s80.
more... | comments (0) | trackback (0) a large body of work shows that exposure to road traffic and air pollution may be a trigger of adverse cardiovascular events such as angina, myocardial infarction, and heart failure, with long-term exposure increasing the lifetime risk of death from coronary heart disease.
the new version of the compact suv, which is available in on-road and off-road models, features a range of seven engines (3 diesel, 4 gasoline) in the european line-up, with fuel consumption ranging from 8.6 l/100km (27 mpg us) down to 5.3 l/100 km (44 mpg us) for the two front-wheel drive tiguans 2.0 tdi with bluemotion technology (81 kw / 110 ps and 103 kw / 140 ps).
the new 1.7 cdti engine is  available in two output levels: 81 kw/110 hp and 96 kw/130 hp with maximum  torque of 280 and 300 n·m respectively.
sales of hybrids grew 33.9% in 1q 2011 compared to 1q 2010; diesel grew 42.9%;  and small cars such as the ford fiesta and honda fit grew 23.3%.
the transmission’s software has been further improved and additional  economy has been achieved by reducing friction between transmission components.
the front wheels of the v60 plug-in hybrid will be driven by a  five-cylinder 2.4-liter d5 turbodiesel, which produces 215 hp (160 kw) and  maximum torque of 440 n·m (325 lb-ft).
at the same time, it offers  access to new technologies.
historically, prevailing wind shear patterns prohibit cyclones in the arabian sea from becoming major storms.
this development model features a plug-in hybrid  diesel-electric powertrain that land rover expects to make available in future  production models, following the scheduled launch of its diesel-electric hybrid  in 2013.
more... | comments (17) | trackback (0) cummins is one year into a four year program (atlas, advanced technology light automotive systems) to develop, in partnership with the us department of energy (doe), a new light-duty diesel truck engine that will meet tier 2 bin 2 (sulev) emission requirements while achieving at least a 40% fuel economy improvement (26.1 mpg us vs. 18.6 mpg us, or 9.0 l/100km vs. 12.6 l/100km) over the gasoline v8 it could replace.
at the 2011 geneva motor show, the all-new jeep grand cherokee will debut a  new, optional 3.0-liter turbo diesel engine available for europe and other  diesel markets.
among their general conclusions: more... | comments (5) | trackback (0) peugeot unveiling 508 rxh diesel-electric hybrid and concept hx1 plug-in  diesel-electric hybrid at frankfurt august 29, 2011
ford developed a new 6.7l v-8 turbo diesel, code named  “scorpion,” for the full-size pickup truck and light commercial  vehicle markets.
this equates to nedc average fuel economy figures of 4.3 and 4.5  liters/100 km (55 and 52 mpg us) respectively.
volvo cars details more of the v60 diesel plug-in hybrid; 3  driver-selected driving modes illustration of the v60 phev  powertrain.
vw beetle tdi diesel going on sale in us this summer february 09, 2012 2013 beetle tdi.
the tourer also incorporates a wider-ratio six-speed  manual transmission.
according to its estimates, adopting the full combination of improved technologies in medium and large cars and pickup trucks with spark-ignition engines could reduce fuel consumption by 29% at an additional cost of $2,200 to the consumer.
mazda motor corporation will showcase the global premiere of the mazda  takeri next-generation midsize sedan concept car at the upcoming 42nd tokyo  motor show.
they then chemically  hydrogenated the biosynthetic bisabolene into bisabolane.
more... | comments (7) | trackback (0) mercedes-benz has introduced the new actros heavy-duty truck, specifically designed to serve all applications in long-distance transport; previously this domain was served by two truck series, the actros and the axor.
credit: acs, thiruvengadam et al.
each company is  required to match nyserda’s funding with their own investments, and funds  will be awarded following development of a final contract.
palm oil came second with a renewable diesel yield of 82.1% (lpg 5.4%); and canola was third with an 81.4% renewable diesel yield and 5.7% lpg.
more... | comments (4) | trackback (0) fedex express, a subsidiary of fedex corp. is adding more than 4,000 new, fuel efficient vehicle.
the following aspects are the primary elements of this  optimized combustion system layout: more... | comments (3) | trackback (0) scania unveils euro 6 heavy-duty engines april 02, 2011 scania euro 6 engine and aftertreatment  system.
steyr has introduced the first production tractor powered by natural gas.
more... | comments (0) | trackback (0) china yuchai international introduces prototype euro vi-compliant diesel  engine july 04, 2011 the euro vi-compliant yc6l-60.
developing  190 ps (189 hp, 141 kw) and 332 lb-ft (450 n·m) of torque, the new  engine is capable of returning 52.3 mpg (uk) (43.6 mpg us, 5.4 l/100km) on the  combined cycle while emitting 149 g/km of co2.
the inaugural study examines attitudes of us consumers toward four primary  alternative powertrain technologies: hybrid electric vehicles; clean diesel  engines; plug-in hybrid electric vehicles; and battery electric vehicles.
in germany, the 2012 tiguan will arrive on the market in mid-june; other european countries will follow at the beginning of august, and overseas markets at the end of august.
gas storage is handled in nine fuel tanks, with a capacity of 300 liters in total.
the first project, with the north west upgrading (nwu) /
the combination of the four-cylinder, 1.6-liter diesel engine (115 hp) with the six-speed powershift gearbox is available in four models: volvo s60, v60, v70 and s80.
more... | comments (4) | trackback (0) volvo car corporation drive diesels with automatic transmission now  deliver same fuel consumption as manual versions november 29, 2011 volvo car corporation’s 1.6-liter diesel combined with the automatic  powershift gearbox now delivers the same low fuel consumption and co2 levels as  the manual drive versions.
the results of their study are published in an open access paper in theeuropean heart journal.
this alliance will introduce the use of the hybridrive parallel system ( earlier post) into the north american rcv market and is part of bae  systems’ broader strategic initiative to address a range of heavy-duty  truck vocations that also will include construction, pick-up and delivery, and  utility.
the renewed 69 hp 1.2 fire completes the range of gasoline engines available at  the launch.
the new m-class lineup offers a range of  advanced engines (bluetec diesel units and the new generation of bluedirect  gasoline engines), a class-leading cd figure (drag coefficient) of 0.32 and  extensive blueefficiency measures to reduce fuel consumption.
the alberta government has successfully negotiated contracts for two projects that will advance the upgrading and refining of oil sands bitumen to diesel fuel.
mazda will also hold the japan debut of the new cx-5 crossover suv.
the s60 diesel with start-stop technology, with 114 g co2/km (119 g  co2/km in the v60, v70 and s80), now achieves the levels of the manual model  equivalents.
the new steyr profi 4135 natural power is equipped with a turbocharged  mono-fuel cng engine, made by fiat powertrain technologies (fpt), another fiat  group company.
the aerosol  buildup creates formations known as atmospheric brown clouds (abcs) in which  smog from diesel emissions, soot and other by-products of biomass burning  accumulate and become widespread to a degree significant enough to affect  regional climate.
pollution is making arabian sea cyclones more intense, according to a  study in the journalnature.
they incorporated the material and energy balance for the study into an excelspreadsheet, which they are making available in the hope of providing greater transparency, as well as ease of scenario manipulation than has generally been found in the literature.
equipped with  start/stop and a package of ecoflex technologies, the new opel zafira tourer  2.0 cdti ecoflex emits 119 g/km co2.
more... | comments (2) | trackback (0) honda outlines technology for fuel efficiency push; engines,  transmissions, hybrid, plug-in hybrid and electric powertrains november 30, 2011 newly developed 2.4l-class gasoline  engine.
epa anticipates awarding one cooperative agreement from this announcement,  subject to availability of funds and the quality of proposals received.
daimler remains last on the list, having reduced co2 in 2010 by a below-average 3%.
the information collected by this request for information will be used for  internal doe analysis, including assisting doe in estimating the benefits of  its research, development and demonstration (rd&d) portfolio.
pike research projects alternative fuel buses to represent 50% of total  transit bus deliveries by 2015 may 12, 2011 transit bus deliveries by fuel type, world  markets: 2010-2016.
gdici is one of the approaches under investigation further to reduce  nox and pm emissions from diesel engines.
federal-mogul corporation has developed an electrical brushless diesel fuel  pump for on- and off-highway engines with significantly improved durability.
more... | comments (0) | trackback (0) china yuchai international limited announced that its main operating subsidiary, guangxi yuchai machinery company limited (gymcl), recently introduced china’s first prototype diesel engine—based on its 8.4-literyc6l platform—compliant with euro vi emission standards.
the new m-class lineup offers a range of advanced engines (bluetec diesel units and the new generation of bluedirect gasoline engines), a class-leading cd figure (drag coefficient) of 0.32 and extensive blueefficiency measures to reduce fuel consumption.
sales of all  light-duty vehicles in first quarter grew 20.2%.
(developed in cooperation with bosch, the unit injectors were located at each cylinder to deliver the fuel for combustion.)
credit: acs, lilik and boehman.
more... | comments (3) | trackback (0) pollution is making arabian sea cyclones more intense, according to a study in the journalnature.
california assembly bill 118 (núñez, chapter 750, statutes of  2007), created the alternative and renewable fuel and vehicle technology  program.
gdici is one of the approaches under investigation further to reduce nox and pm emissions from diesel engines.
the particle number count under those conditions increased by more than an order of magnitude in comparison to dpf-out particle concentrations.
for the second project, the alberta government and enhance energy inc. have agreed to terms and conditions specific to the first major carbon capture and storage (ccs) project in the province.
mark in 11.4 seconds.
fuel consumption in the volvo s60 with the 1.6d engine and powershift is  4.3 l/100km (54.7 mpg us).
more... | comments (13) | trackback (0) mazda begins production of mazda cx-5 with skyactiv-d diesel engine; japan  and europe first markets the cx-5.
according to its estimates, adopting the full combination of improved  technologies in medium and large cars and pickup trucks with spark-ignition  engines could reduce fuel consumption by 29% at an additional cost of $2,200 to  the consumer.
the 2012 beetle offered  in the us provides a choice of three engines: the 2.5l gasoline five cylinder;  the 2.0l tdi clean diesel; and the 2.0l tsi turbocharged gasoline engine.
the combustion system includes the piston bowl, swirl level, number of nozzle holes, fuel spray angle, nozzle tip protrusion, nozzle hydraulic flow, and nozzle-hole taper.
credit: acs, ashok 2011.
cummins is also partnering with  johnson matthey catalysts for emission controls technology in the planned  aftertreatment system.
more... | comments (7) | trackback (0) a three-year biofuel trial organized by neste oil, helsinki region transport (hsl), and proventia has recently been completed, and the results have shown that neste oil’s nexbtl renewable diesel can significantly reduce local emissions that have a direct impact on urban air quality.
|home | bioage group
the staff of the california energy commission has prepared a draft  2011-2012 investment plan for the alternative and renewable fuel and vehicle  technology program, its third year of program funding.
more... | comments (6) | trackback (0) fiat introduces new panda; new 0.9l, 2-cylinder engines with start&stop september 16, 2011 fiat presented the new panda city car at the frankfurt international motor  show; production will begin in the last quarter of 2011.
more... | comments (4) | trackback (0) fedex express doubles and diversifies all-electric fleet with 24 new  units; adding more than 4,000 new, fuel-efficient vehicles in total june 28, 2011 fedex express, a subsidiary of fedex corp. is adding more than 4,000 new,  fuel efficient vehicle.
percentages for overall  consideration (definitely would / probably would) were: more... | comments (34) | trackback (0)
more... | comments (3) | trackback (0) new low cost thermal barrier coating for diesel engine applications to  solve heat issues associated with 2013 euro vi emissions introduction april 18, 2011 coatings specialist zircotec has developed a new low cost, fit and forget  ceramic coating offering surface temperature reductions of 125 °c for  diesel engine applications.
the new civic will reach european showrooms in early 2012.
error bands indicate technology uncertainties (red solid  lines) and fuel price uncertainties (green dashed lines).click to enlarge.
china yuchai international limited announced that its main operating  subsidiary, guangxi yuchai machinery company limited (gymcl), recently  introduced china’s first prototype diesel engine—based on its  8.4-literyc6l platform—compliant with euro vi emission standards.
sales of all light-duty vehicles in first quarter grew 20.2%.
peugeot will introduce the 508 rxh diesel-electric hybrid, the third model  in the 508 range and the second deployment of the hybrid4 diesel-electric  drivetrain following its release on the 3008 hybrid4 (earlier post), at the  upcoming frankfurt international motor show (iaa) in september.
the main objectives of the solicited project are four-fold: more... | comments (7) | trackback (0)
more... | comments (6) | trackback (0) new bmw 116d efficientdynamics edition will drop co2 emissions to 99 g/km june 05, 2011 bmw 1 series, sport and urban line.
the  study gauges consumer consideration rates of these powertrain types for their  next new vehicle purchase and explores specific perceived benefits and concerns  that factor into the decision-making process.
more... | comments (18) | trackback (0) mazda motor corporation will showcase the global premiere of the mazda takeri next-generation midsize sedan concept car at the upcoming 42nd tokyo motor show.
more... | comments (21) | trackback (0) renault has begun production of the new energy dci 130 diesel engine ( earlier post) at its cléon site is starting production of the new flagship in renault’s powertrain range, the diesel energy dci 130.
eco pro mode is  activated using the driving experience switch (included as standard).
the zafira tourer ecoflex with the 2-liter, four-cylinder-common-rail turbodiesel featuring optimized combustion control and reduced internal friction consumes 4.5 liters of diesel per 100 km (52.3 mpg us) in the combined cycle.
more... | comments (4) | trackback (0)
the focus econetic will be available in both five-door and wagon bodystyles.
the new panda  initially will be available with front-wheel drive, with a 4x4 joining later,  and will offer a range of 4 engines, 3 gasoline and 1 diesel.
tiguan first  appeared in 2007, with nearly 700,000 units delivered worldwide.
however, ashok noted, ethanol addition to diesel results in different physicochemical changes in diesel fuel properties, particularly a reduction in cetane number, viscosity, and heating value.
the engines, which feature three turbochargers, deliver maximum output reaching 280 kw/381 hp and peak torque of 740 n·m (546 lb-ft).
the main focus in the development in the 2.0 cdti biturbo engine was to ensure a rapid build-up of charge air pressure in the low-rpm range, while giving the accelerator added responsiveness in the mid-rpm range.
the model is due to go on sale in spring 2012.
the simultaneous development process enabled easier coordination of engines and transmissions, for example, with regard to implementation of the eco start/stop function which features as standard on all b-class models.
a new 1.7 cdti diesel engine features a new engine management system  completely designed by opel engineers.
redesigned 2.0-liter diesel engines equip the  116d with 85 kw/116 hp, 118d with 105 kw/143 hp, and 120d with 135 kw/184 hp.
fuel consumption of the engines has been reduced by 0.6 liters per 100 kilometers.
the sixth annual analysis conducted by t&e, the european federation  for transport and environment, of new car co2 emissions in europe (2011 cars  & co2 report: how clean are europe’s cars) found that volvo car  corporation led the pack with a co2 reduction of 9%.
the modular transverse matrix standardizes many vehicle component  parameters across brands and vehicle classes.
model year 2012 brings two new ecoflex models into the astra line-up.
those running solely on nexbtl renewable diesel achieved the  largest reductions in emissions.
opel introducing sequential double-turbo technology for insignia;  “twin cooler system” december 05, 2011
the transmission’s software has been further improved and additional economy has been achieved by reducing friction between transmission components.
the main focus in the development in the 2.0 cdti biturbo engine was to  ensure a rapid build-up of charge air pressure in the low-rpm range, while  giving the accelerator added responsiveness in the mid-rpm range.
also scheduled for launch later this year is the bmw 116d efficientdynamics edition, with additional fuel-saving technologies that will keep co2 emissions over the eu testing cycle down to 99 g/km.
among the awards is support for a syracuse university (with borgwarner of ithaca) project to prepare, inject and combust supercritical (sc) diesel fuel.
the engines will be installed in certain toyota-produced vehicles planned for sale in the european market.
the engines combine a range of technical solutions to meet  the more stringent emission requirements, while the consumption of fuel is as  good as scania’s euro 5 engines.
increasing the rate of introduction of exhaust gas recirculation (egr) into the intake air enhances premixing before the onset of combustion by retarding the start of combustion and reducing the intensity of the ignition process, note gregory lilik and andré boehman in a paper published recently in the acs journalenergy & fuels.
renault has begun production of the new energy dci 130 diesel engine ( earlier post) at its cléon site is starting production of the new  flagship in renault’s powertrain range, the diesel energy dci 130.
a three-kilometer (1.9-mile)-thick brown cloud has been linked to altered rainfall patterns in south asia, for example.
more... | comments (0) | trackback (0) study identifies combustion-derived nanoparticles in diesel exhaust as the  predominant mediator for adverse cardiovascular events july 14, 2011
access to older stories is now solely through the monthly archive pages or the site search function.]
at low rpms an additional, water-cooled  intercooler (small arrow) ensures that the small volume of air from the small  turbocharger passes in a short and direct path to the combustion chamber.
more... | comments (4) | trackback (0) researchers from japan and mexico have developed a one-step hydrotreatment process over catalysts containing ni-mo and solid acids for the conversion of vegetable oils (jatropha, palm and canola) to renewable diesel and lpg fuels.
the technology suits 12v and 24v applications and is available for diesel engines typically used in the medium- and heavy-duty on-highway sector and in the construction, stationary, marine and agricultural sectors.
improvements  to honda’s 2.2-liter i-dtec engine, coupled with a low-drag body design,  result in co2 emissions of 110 g/km, while delivering a power output of 150 ps  (148 hp, 110 kw) and 350 n·m (258 lb-ft) of torque.
more... | comments (3) | trackback (0) study finds high exhaust temperatures within nte operation for heavy-duty  diesels with aftertreatment systems contribute to
more... | comments (5) | trackback (0) volkswagen staged the global debut of the third generation of its iconic beetle simultaneously in shanghai, berlin and new york.
one leader in terms of fuel consumption for the suv line is the ml
the 508 rxh diesel-electric hybrid goes  on sale in spring 2012.
the new  alliance will perform field trials this year with a plan for crane carrier  company to offer hybridrive powered vehicles to the market by the end of 2012.
volvo cars has provided more information on its v60 plug-in hybrid (phev),  to be introduced at the geneva motor show.
while the market for diesel buses will remain strong for the foreseeable  future, pike research expects to see natural gas transit buses growing at an  8.2% compound annual growth rate (cagr) between 2010 and 2016 and hybrid  transit buses growing by 19.8% during that same period.
the new 2012 honda civic will feature a cleaner, more powerful and fuel efficient diesel engine to deliver lower running costs for owners.
replacing spark-ignition engines with diesel engines and components would yield fuel savings of about 37% at an added cost of approximately $5,900 per vehicle, and replacing spark-ignition engines with hybrid engines and components would reduce fuel consumption by 43% at an increase of $6,000 per vehicle.
in his announcement, winterkorn said that over the mid-term, the plug-in hybrid offers great potential because it combines the best of two worlds in one vehicle: unlimited internal combustion engine performance combined with attractive electric mobility ranges in everyday driving.
opel will introduce a new biturbo engine on the insignia beginning in  january 2012.
source:  t&e. click to enlarge.
both vehicles are equipped with the full array of mazda’s skyactiv  technology (earlier post).
more... | comments (2) | trackback (0)
more... | comments (2) | trackback (0) for its s60, v60, v70 and s80 models with 1.6-liter diesel engines, available from early 2012, volvo hasopted for getrag’s six-speed 6dct450 powershift transmission for further reductions in fuel consumption and co2 emissions.
the statute, subsequently amended by ab 109 (núñez, chapter 313, statutes of 2008), authorizes the energy commission to develop and deploy alternative and renewable fuels and advanced transportation technologies to help attain the state’s climate change policies.
the diesel phev will  go on sale in 2012.
the new steyr profi 4135 natural power is equipped with a turbocharged mono-fuel cng engine, made by fiat powertrain technologies (fpt), another fiat group company.
the vehicles are also equipped with an  eight-speed sports automatic gearbox and the intelligent all-wheel-drive system  bmw xdrive tuned to suit each model, as well as bmw efficientdynamics  technologies, including auto start-stop and eco pro mode.
in a paper published in nature communications, they suggest that their work presents a framework for the identification of novel terpene-based advanced biofuels and the rapid engineering of microbial farnesyl diphosphate-overproducing platforms for the production of biofuels.
more... | comments (4) | trackback (0) the us environmental protection agency (epa) is soliciting proposals for a project to provide assistance in developing and implementing assessment and mitigation activities for diesel sources of black carbon in the russian arctic.
these results led to a hybrid new vehicle marketshare in 1q 2011 of 2.3%; a diesel marketshare of 0.6%; and a small car marketshare of 3.4%.
in addition to lower particulate and nox  emissions, using nexbtl also results in lower emissions of aromatic pah  hydrocarbons.
volkswagen says that its mqb strategy represents a turning point in the design and production of its future automobiles with transverse-mounted engines.
more... | comments (0) | trackback (0) shortly after the new zafira tourer goes on sale in the fall, opel will also offer a lower co2 ecoflex version of the seven-seat monocab.
they concluded that sustained nte operation could  trigger high-temperature passive regeneration which, in turn, would result in  lower filtration efficiencies of the dpf that further contributes to the  increased solid fraction of the pm number count.
the car exhibits significantly reduced fuel consumption and  emission values compared to the previous model thanks to the switch to  turbo-gasoline (tsi) and common rail turbodiesel direct injection engines  (tdi).
[due to the increasing size of the archives, each topic page now contains only the prior 365 days of content.
they incorporated the material and energy balance for the study into an  excelspreadsheet, which they are making available in the hope of providing  greater transparency, as well as ease of scenario manipulation than has  generally been found in the literature.
more... | comments (6) | trackback (0) fiat presented the new panda city car at the frankfurt international motor show; production will begin in the last quarter of 2011.
the s60 diesel with start-stop technology, with 114 g co2/km (119 g co2/km in the v60, v70 and s80), now achieves the levels of the manual model equivalents.
the bifuel 80 hp 0.9 twinair turbo natural power (gasoline/methane) and 69 hp 1.2 easypower (gasoline/lpg) will follow.
federal-mogul says that the  higher efficiency motors offer enhanced torque-speed performance, with support  for higher pressures and flow capabilities.
the development of the new engine generation and technology has taken five  years and cost approximately sek 10 billion (us$1.6 billion).
in germany, the 2012 tiguan will  arrive on the market in mid-june; other european countries will follow at the  beginning of august, and overseas markets at the end of august.
(electric rear axle drive) in the form of an electric motor producing 70 hp (52  kw), which receives its power from a 12 kwh lithium-ion battery pack.
he also stated that plug-in technology has excellent potential for reducing co2 emissions.
nwu and canadian natural will each own 50% of the  partnership, with nwu acting as the operator.
in tokyo, honda motor co., ltd. outlined its plans for next-generation automotive technology—which it is labeling “earth dreams technology”—comprising a series of measures to improve the efficiency of gasoline and diesel engines, transmissions, hybrid and plug-in hybrid systems and electric powertrains.
data collected  by vtt technical research centre of finland show that particulate emissions  were reduced by 30% and nox emissions by 10%.
the researchers also found that some of the high temperature modes resulted in diesel particulate filter (dpf)-out accumulation mode (between 50 and 200 nm) particle concentrations an order of magnitude greater than typical background pm concentrations.
however, the majority of research  effort focused on the utilization of gdici combustion has so far mostly  targeted heavy-duty engines, the team noted in a new sae paper (2011-01-1182)  presented at the world congress last month.
the new 1.7 cdti engine is available in two output levels: 81 kw/110 hp and 96 kw/130 hp with maximum torque of 280 and 300 n·m respectively.
medium- and heavy-duty vehicles are a significant component of  california’s transportation sector, accounting for a combined 16% of the  state’s petroleum consumption and greenhouse gas emissions within the  transportation sector; however, these vehicles represent less than 4% of the  in-state vehicle population.
(steyr is part of cnh global n.v., a majority-owned subsidiary of fiat industrial s.p.a., and was originally formed by the merger of case corp. and new holland in 1999.)
a new 1.7 cdti diesel engine features a new engine management system completely designed by opel engineers.
the cx-5 will be the first model of the company’s new-generation products that adopts skyactiv technology throughout the vehicle (earlier post), in the powertrain, body and chassis, while fully embracing mazda’s new design theme, “kodo - soul of motion.”
tu/e aims with this project to demonstrate the viability of small-scale, environment-friendly fuel production from its own waste material at competitive prices.
he also stated that plug-in technology has excellent potential for  reducing co2 emissions.
the  climate change benefit is estimated for 2050 and human health and crop benefits  are for 2030 and beyond.
volkswagen will bring the new beetle tdi diesel (earlier post), unveiled  at the chicago auto show, to market in the us this summer as a 2013 model.
the range features new two-cylinder engines: the 85 hp 0.9 twinair turbo,  named “international engine of the year 2011”, and the 65 hp 0.9  aspirated twinair, both equipped with the start&stop system as standard.
to achieve this, the 6dct450 dual-clutch transmission incorporating wet clutches needs no additional hardware such as a pressure accumulator or electrically driven pump.
the 118 kw/160 hp variant of the 2.0 cdti ecoflex consumes 4.3  l/100 km (55 mpg us), while emitting 115 g/km of co2.
fuel consumption of the volvo s80 d5 with manual gearbox and start/stop is now 4.9 l/100 km eu combined (48 mpg us), corresponding to 129 g co2 per kilometer.
more... | comments (1) | trackback (0) the third-generation mercedes-benz m-class on average consumes 25% less fuel than the previous models.
the engine is a 3.0 liter, four-cylinder unit, producing 100 kw/136 hp rated, 105 kw/143 hp max power and a maximum torque of 542 n·m (400 lb-ft) at transmission input shaft.
fuel consumption in the optional euro v variant is around 6% lower  than for the predecessor model.
the new york state energy research and development authority (nyserda) is  awarding $4.6 million to help 17 new york state companies develop and  commercialize innovative new transportation technologies intended to reduce  greenhouse gas emissions, decrease reliance on fossil fuels, and create jobs.
among the awards is support for a syracuse university (with borgwarner of  ithaca) project to prepare, inject and combust supercritical (sc) diesel fuel.
for its s60, v60, v70 and s80 models with 1.6-liter diesel engines,  available from early 2012, volvo hasopted for getrag’s six-speed 6dct450  powershift transmission for further reductions in fuel consumption and co2  emissions.
in addition, toyota motor europe (tme), tmc’s european subsidiary,  and bmw group have entered into a contract under which bmw group is to supply  1.6-liter and 2.0-liter diesel engines to tme starting in 2014.
mazda will start introducing the mazda cx-5 this spring in japan and europe, followed by other markets around the world.
the particular process explored in the  paper consists of: more... | comments (5) | trackback (0)
the transient results  illustrate the gradual formation of the nucleation mode particles with  continuous increase in exhaust temperatures.
the focus econetic will be  available in both five-door and wagon bodystyles.
the particle number count under those conditions increased by more  than an order of magnitude in comparison to dpf-out particle concentrations.
the new diesel econetic, which will go on sale early next year, leverages a number of advanced technologies that ford expects will make it more fuel efficient than any other compact vehicle on the road today in europe, including conventional diesel-, gasoline- and hybrid-powered vehicles.
for the euro vi version, the figure is around  3% lower, combined with a reduction in adblue consumption of around 40%.
more... | comments (24) | trackback (0) mercedes- benz will introduce the all-new 2012my m-class suv into the us market in september 2011 with two models: ml350 4matic and ml350 bluetec.
while the market for diesel buses will remain strong for the foreseeable future, pike research expects to see natural gas transit buses growing at an 8.2% compound annual growth rate (cagr) between 2010 and 2016 and hybrid transit buses growing by 19.8% during that same period.
the new configuration allowed jaguar engineers to add a new oil pan and new electronic systems affecting the crankshaft to allow the new intelligent stop-start system to operate more efficiently.
more... | comments (6) | trackback (0) bmw is equipping its second-generation 1 series with gasoline and diesel engines all of which feature new bmw twinpower turbo technology.
the coating provides an option for truck and bus manufacturers challenged  by the higher temperatures experienced with new euro vi emissions regulations  and testing methods set to be introduced in late 2013.
growth of alternative powertrain vehicles sales will be limited by consumer  concerns about costs as well as functionality,according to the newly-released  j.d. power and associates 2011 us green automotive study.
the development of the new engine generation and technology has taken five years and cost approximately sek 10 billion (us$1.6 billion).
peugeot is also staging the worldwide debut of the six-seat multipurpose  hx1 plug-in diesel-electric hybrid concept at the show.
more... | comments (8) | trackback (0) growth of alternative powertrain vehicles sales will be limited by consumer concerns about costs as well as functionality,according to the newly-released j.d. power and associates 2011 us green automotive study.
the design gives mercedes-benz a piston that  fully exploits the advances in thermal and mechanical durability made possible  by federal-mogul’s durabowl manufacturing process.
maximum speed is 193 km/h (120 mph) and the monocab reaches the 100 km/h mark in 11.4 seconds.
source: pike research.
the hecs engine incorporates novel and conventional technologies to achieve low co2 emissions and a 17% reduction in fuel consumption, while also meeting euro 6 emission standards without aftertreatment.
the new 2.0 cdti biturbo engine  features a dual intercooler system.
the front wheels of the v60 plug-in hybrid will be driven by a five-cylinder 2.4-liter d5 turbodiesel, which produces 215 hp (160 kw) and maximum torque of 440 n·m (325 lb-ft).
improvements to honda’s 2.2-liter i-dtec engine, coupled with a low-drag body design, result in co2 emissions of 110 g/km, while delivering a power output of 150 ps (148 hp, 110 kw) and 350 n·m (258 lb-ft) of torque.
more... | comments (1) | trackback (0) 3rd generation mercedes-benz m-class suv lineup on average consumes 25%  less fuel than previous models; pilot for the “energy-transparent  vehicle” development tool september 11, 2011 mercedes-benz m-class, ml 350 4matic  blueefficiency.
more... | comments (17) | trackback (0) progress on atlas: cummins’ tier 2 bin 2 light duty diesel project
the simultaneous  development process enabled easier coordination of engines and transmissions,  for example, with regard to implementation of the eco start/stop function which  features as standard on all b-class models.
more... | comments (9) | trackback (0) fev to show 2nd generation diesel high efficiency combustion system at  2011 sae world congress april 05, 2011 fev, inc., will exhibit its high efficiency combustion system (hecs) diesel  engine at the 2011 sae world congress, 12-14 april at cobo center in detroit.
developed specifically for the european market, this civic will be offered exclusively as a five-door hatchback and will compete in the c-segment.
the new version of the compact suv, which is available in on-road and  off-road models, features a range of seven engines (3 diesel, 4 gasoline) in  the european line-up, with fuel consumption ranging from 8.6 l/100km (27 mpg  us) down to 5.3 l/100 km (44 mpg us) for the two front-wheel drive tiguans 2.0  tdi with bluemotion technology (81 kw / 110 ps and 103 kw / 140 ps).
more... | comments (2) | trackback (0) green car congress © 2012 bioage group, llc.
the trio of 2.0 liter insignia engines is now also equipped with start/stop  technology.
more... | comments (13) | trackback (0) mazda motor corporation has begun production of the all-new mazda cx-5 with its new-generation skyactiv-d 2.2-liter diesel engine (earlier post) at its ujina plant near mazda’s headquarters in hiroshima.
cummins is partnering with nissan to fit the engine into a nissan titan  for the demonstration of the program goals.
anticipated funding for  fiscal year 2011-2012 is approximately $100 million, with the largest single  portion ($22 million) proposed to be allocated to medium-and heavy-duty trucks.
model year 2012 brings two new ecoflex models into the astra  line-up.
bmw is equipping its second-generation 1 series with gasoline and diesel  engines all of which feature new bmw twinpower turbo technology.
more... | comments (4) | trackback (0) this year, volkswagen group will introduce the modular transverse matrix (mqb, modularen querbaukasten) for the volkswagen, audi, škoda and seat brands.
the study, which involved the participation of some of the world’s  leading energy and technology companies and organizations,found significant  changes in future demand patterns strongly influenced by global energy security  policies, the technology change that they promote, and demographics.
more... | comments (0) | trackback (0) new mercedes-benz v6 diesel engines use durabowl piston technology from  federal-mogul september 04, 2011 federal-mogul corporation has jointly developed with mercedes-benz a piston  technology for daimler’s latest v6 diesel engine that helps to reduce  fuel consumption and emissions.
new actros from mercedes-benz; euro vi compliant and lower fuel consumption july 07, 2011 the new actros.
in a study published in the acs journal energy & fuels, m. p. ashok of annamalai university, tamil nadu, india reports that adding dimethyl ether to an ethanol/diesel emulsion results in an increase in brake thermal efficiency and a decrease in specific fuel consumption (sfc), particulate matter, smoke density, and oxides of nitrogen compared to either the emulsion or a base diesel fuel.
the corresponding figures for the automatic version are 6.0 l/100 km (39 mpg us) and 158 g/km.
more... | comments (5) | trackback (0) ifpen researchers develop grading system to assess diesel engine  cold-start performance with different fuels october 22, 2011 illustration of the main criteria used  to qualify a cold start.
the new four-cylinder 16-valve common rail diesel engine displaces 2,179 cc and is installed in a north-south configuration for the first time.
more... | comments (3) | trackback (0)
ashok selected the 50d/50e ratio as the best of the emulsified blends due  to its increase in brake thermal efficiency and decrease in specific fuel  consumption, smoke density (sd) and pm.
the third generation of the mercedes-benz m-class suv features a completely reworked 3.0l diesel for the ml350
access to older stories is now solely  through the monthly archive pages or the site search function.]
a high ignition quality (high cetane number) fuel is well suited for  operation under an advanced diesel combustion mode (high efficiency clean  combustion, hecc) and leads to reductions in all primary pollutant  emissions—i.e., thc and co as well as nox and pm—according to  research by a team from the pennsylvania state university.
canadian natural resources limited (cnrl) partnership will lead to construction of a new bitumen refinery as part of the government’s bitumen royalty-in-kind (brik) initiative.
the 2012 beetle offered in the us provides a choice of three engines: the 2.5l gasoline five cylinder; the 2.0l tdi clean diesel; and the 2.0l tsi turbocharged gasoline engine.
the engine air is ideally adjusted according to the rpm range and the needs of the two turbochargers of different size.
from 2008 onwards, some ran on 100% nexbtl.
however, the majority of research effort focused on the utilization of gdici combustion has so far mostly targeted heavy-duty engines, the team noted in a new sae paper (2011-01-1182) presented at the world congress last month.
sales of hybrids grew 33.9% in 1q 2011 compared to 1q 2010; diesel grew 42.9%; and small cars such as the ford fiesta and honda fit grew 23.3%.
the energy commission has an annual program budget of approximately $100 million to support projects that: more... | comments (3) | trackback (0) a small number of emissions reduction measures targeting black carbon (bc) and tropospheric ozone (o3) could immediately begin to protect climate, public health, water and food security, and ecosystems,according to a study, integrated assessment of black carbon and tropospheric ozone, newly released by the united nations environment programme (unep).
credit: acs, starcket al.
more... | comments (5) | trackback (0) the staff of the california energy commission has prepared a draft 2011-2012 investment plan for the alternative and renewable fuel and vehicle technology program, its third year of program funding.
for march 2011, hybrid sales grew 46.4% year-on-year; diesel sales grew  46.1%; and small car sales grew 30.0%.
the car  features a six-speed automatic transmission.
study finds tailor-made fuels from biomass could significantly reduce  emissions of criteria pollutants and greenhouse gases august 31, 2011 optimized fuel properties with regard  to different emissions janssenet al.
winterkorn noted that  there are no limitations to the vehicle’s speed, climbing or towing  abilities.
increasing the rate of introduction of exhaust  gas recirculation (egr) into the intake air enhances premixing before the onset  of combustion by retarding the start of combustion and reducing the intensity  of the ignition process, note gregory lilik and andré boehman in a paper  published recently in the acs journalenergy & fuels.
the award amount is $1,000,000 for the four-year period of performance.
more... | comments (5) | trackback (0) vw stages global launch for third generation of beetle; for the us, two  gasoline and one diesel engines april 19, 2011 world premiere of the new volkswagen beetle,  berlin.
more... | comments (7) | trackback (0) enhanced i-dtec diesel in honda civic delivers more power with lower fuel  consumption august 12, 2011 power and torque in the enhanced i-dtec  engine.
those running solely on nexbtl renewable diesel achieved the largest reductions in emissions.
honda will launch the new civic at the iaa frankfurt motor show in  september.
the combustion system includes the piston bowl, swirl level, number of  nozzle holes, fuel spray angle, nozzle tip protrusion, nozzle hydraulic flow,  and nozzle-hole taper.
the takeri features the new skyactiv-d clean diesel engine, as well as mazda’s idling stop system i-stop, and a new regenerative braking system.
more... | comments (0) | trackback (0) bmw introduces new 6-cylinder in-line diesel with 3 turbochargers for new  m performance models january 26, 2012 bmw has introduced a new range of m performance automobiles featuring a new  6-cylinder in-line diesel developed exclusively for those applications.
emulsification of diesel with ethanol is one of the possible approaches to improve fuel economy and reduce emissions of pollutants from diesel engines.
the new configuration allowed jaguar engineers  to add a new oil pan and new electronic systems affecting the crankshaft to  allow the new intelligent stop-start system to operate more efficiently.
equipped with start/stop and a package of ecoflex technologies, the new opel zafira tourer 2.0 cdti ecoflex emits 119 g/km co2.
the information collected by this request for information will be used for internal doe analysis, including assisting doe in estimating the benefits of its research, development and demonstration (rd&d) portfolio.
tu/e  aims with this project to demonstrate the viability of small-scale,  environment-friendly fuel production from its own waste material at competitive  prices.
volkswagen is introducing the new tiguan, announced earlier this year and  shown at the geneva motor show in march.
all versions with manual transmission are also equipped with start/stop.
the  engines, which feature three turbochargers, deliver maximum output reaching 280  kw/381 hp and peak torque of 740 n·m (546 lb-ft).
the rear axle features erad
the particular process explored in the paper consists of: more... | comments (5) | trackback (0)
this translates to 10% more power and eight percent more torque than the engine it replaces.
performance and torque  of the d5 increase from 205 hp/420 n·m to 215 hp (160 kw) and 440  n·m (35 lb-ft) while at the same time reducing fuel consumption by 8%.
thenature paper suggests that weakening winds have enabled the formation of stronger cyclones in recent years—including storms in 2007 and 2010 that were the first recorded storms to enter the gulf of oman.
fuel consumption in the optional euro v variant is around 6% lower than for the predecessor model.
more... | comments (9) | trackback (0) fev, inc., will exhibit its high efficiency combustion system (hecs) diesel engine at the 2011 sae world congress, 12-14 april at cobo center in detroit.
enhance will build the alberta carbon trunk line (actl), a pipeline which will deliver carbon dioxide (co2) captured from the refinery, to be used for enhanced oil recovery from existing conventional oil fields.
researchers note that weakening wind patterns during the last 30 years correspond with a buildup of aerosols in the atmosphere over india.
bluetec model that which meets emissions  standards in all 50 states and delivers improved performance, yet with  considerably reduced fuel consumption.
advances in piston designs play an important role in reducing fuel  consumption and emissions.
the debut of the cx-5 with a diesel engine marks a new push on clean diesels in japan market for mazda.
more... | comments (10) | trackback (0) researchers from the stevens institute of technology, basf catalyst and golden biomass fuels corporation report on their investigation of an energy balance, in broad outline, for the production of a high-quality synthetic diesel from residual crop biomass via a fischer-tropsch route in a paper published in the acs journalenergy & fuels.
under the mou, the two  companies will collaborate on research in the field of next-generation  lithium-ion battery cell technologies.
more... | comments (9) | trackback (0) jaguar debuts new 2.2-liter diesel with stop-start system in xf  development mule march 30, 2011 jaguar has unveiled a new 2.2-liter diesel engine, its most efficient yet.
(tdi engines are not offered in china.)
as part of that, within the next two months fedex express will place 24 new all-electric vehicles into service, expanding to three new cities and more than doubling its fleet to 43 all-electric vehicles while growing the diversity of suppliers it uses for electric vehicles.
the mqb extends from the a0 to the b segment.
one of the fuels which the university intends to produce is cyclox, a tu/e-patented diesel blending fuel that reduces soot emissions.
in the development of the euro 6 engines, all done in-house, scania has combined all the new technologies developed by the company in recent years: exhaust gas recirculation; variable turbo geometry; common-rail high-pressure fuel injection; selective catalytic reduction; particulate filtering; and its own engine and exhaust management technology, now integrated into one system.
study finds adding dme to ethanol/diesel emulsion improves performance  and lowers fuel consumption and emissions over emulsion or base diesel august 01, 2011 comparing fuel consumption with diesel,  50d/50e and 50d/50e + 7% dme.
more... | comments (8) | trackback (0) j.d. power sees hybrid and ev share below 10% of us market through 2016  despite rising fuel prices april 27, 2011 percentages for overall consideration of  alternative powertrains (definitely would / probably would).
for the second project, the alberta government and enhance energy inc. have  agreed to terms and conditions specific to the first major carbon capture and  storage (ccs) project in the province.
both vehicles are equipped with the full array of mazda’s skyactiv technology (earlier post).
each company is required to match nyserda’s funding with their own investments, and funds will be awarded following development of a final contract.
in his announcement, winterkorn said that over the mid-term, the plug-in  hybrid offers great potential because it combines the best of two worlds in one  vehicle: unlimited internal combustion engine performance combined with  attractive electric mobility ranges in everyday driving.
the modular transverse matrix standardizes many vehicle component parameters across brands and vehicle classes.
during the initial phase of the trial, buses used a blend of 30% nexbtl  renewable diesel and 70% standard diesel fuel.
according to a recent report from pike research, the current trend toward  cleaner transit buses will continue over the next several years, with  alternative fuel vehicles representing more than 50% of the 64,000 total  transit buses that will be delivered worldwide during 2015, up from 28% of  total bus deliveries in 2010.
cummins is also partnering with johnson matthey catalysts for emission controls technology in the planned aftertreatment system.
more... | comments (5) | trackback (0)
the takeri features the new skyactiv-d clean diesel engine, as well as  mazda’s idling stop system i-stop, and a new regenerative braking system.
ashok started the project by first  examining the performance of different ethanol/diesel blends: 90d/10e, 80d/20e,  70d/30e, 60d/40e, and 50d/50e, all prepared on the basis of the water-in-oil  (w/o)-type emulsion method.
and go on sale in europe in  november, will offer a number of new technologies to lower fuel consumption and  co2 emissions, including a new series of four-cylinder gasoline engines with  direct injection and turbocharging; a new diesel engine; a new 7-speed dual  clutch transmission; a new 6-speed manual transmission; and new assistance  systems.
more... | comments (0) | trackback (0) federal-mogul corporation has developed an electrical brushless diesel fuel pump for on- and off-highway engines with significantly improved durability.
such measures include the recovery of methane from coal, oil and gas extraction and transport; methane capture in waste management; use of clean-burning stoves for residential cooking; diesel particulate filters for vehicles (some of the largest bc emission reductions are obtained using diesel particle filters on high emitting vehicles); and the banning of field burning of agricultural waste.
the trio of 2.0 liter insignia engines is now also equipped with start/stop technology.
the new mercedes-benz b-class, which will make its debut at the frankfurt  international motor show (13 to 25 september 2011)
jatropha oil produced the highest yield (wt %) of renewable diesel (83.5%), with 4.9% lpg.
more... | comments (0) | trackback (0) federal-mogul electrical brushless diesel fuel pump offers enhanced  durability and improved fuel economy june 27, 2011 brushless motor design.
the technology suits 12v and 24v applications and is available for diesel  engines typically used in the medium- and heavy-duty on-highway sector and in  the construction, stationary, marine and agricultural sectors.
the hecs engine incorporates novel and conventional technologies to achieve low  co2 emissions and a 17% reduction in fuel consumption, while also meeting euro  6 emission standards without aftertreatment.
the 2.0-liter cdti power delivers 143 kw (195 hp) and 400 n·m (295 lb-ft) of torque, with a fuel consumption rating of 4.9 liters per 100 kilometers (48 mpg us), or 129 g/km co2, in the front-wheel-drive notchback version.
advances in piston designs play an important role in reducing fuel consumption and emissions.
march 2011 new vehicle marketshares were  2.7% for hybrids; 0.7% for diesels; and 3.6% for small cars.
peugeot is also staging the worldwide debut of the six-seat multipurpose hx1 plug-in diesel-electric hybrid concept at the show.
the engine is making its debut in the jaguar xf development mule.
cyclox is a cyclic oxygenate (earlier post) and represents a class of molecules which improve the fuel-air mixing process and reduce soot.
the rear axle features erad (electric rear axle drive) in the form of an electric motor producing 70 hp (52 kw), which receives its power from a 12 kwh lithium-ion battery pack.
the start-stop facility enables a further contribution to fuel economy.
the new diesel econetic, which will go on sale  early next year, leverages a number of advanced technologies that ford expects  will make it more fuel efficient than any other compact vehicle on the road  today in europe, including conventional diesel-, gasoline- and hybrid-powered  vehicles.
more than 57% of all european orders for the opel flagship  model are for the diesel variant.
more... | comments (4) | trackback (0) us epa seeking to award up to $1m for project to mitigate black carbon  from diesel sources in russian arctic september 03, 2011
more... | comments (4) | trackback (0) gm expands ecoflex offerings throughout the opel passenger car portfolio  for my 2012 august 11, 2011 opel astra 1.7 cdti ecoflex: 99 gco2/km  (3.7 l diesel/100 km) withoutput of 96 kw/130 hp.
more... | comments (7) | trackback (0)
hecc mode, a premixed charge compression ignition (pcci) process (a low temperature combustion, ltc, process), is achievable in current production diesel engines by modifying several engine operation parameters via the electronic control unit (ecu).
it delivers optized performance, lower consumption as well as less noise and vibration.
eco pro mode is activated using the driving experience switch (included as standard).
the third generation of the mercedes-benz m-class suv features a completely  reworked 3.0l diesel for the ml350
the us environmental protection agency (epa) is soliciting proposals for a  project to provide assistance in developing and implementing assessment and  mitigation activities for diesel sources of black carbon in the russian arctic.
using a parallel hybrid  system with a 14.2 kw/h lithium-ion battery that can be recharged from an  external 240v power source, range_e can be driven on electric power alone for  more than 20 miles.
more... | comments (4) | trackback (0) volvo car corporation’s 1.6-liter diesel combined with the automatic powershift gearbox now delivers the same low fuel consumption and co2 levels as the manual drive versions.
through applications of the new technology first in the mini-vehicle n  box—the first model of the new mini-vehicle n series—and gradually  in other vehicle models, honda is targeting top-of-industry fuel efficiency for  every category within three years, while simultaneously setting a timeline of  2020 to reduce by 30% co2 emissions for all products sold worldwide, relative  to emission figures for 2000.
a high ignition quality (high cetane number) fuel is well suited for operation under an advanced diesel combustion mode (high efficiency clean combustion, hecc) and leads to reductions in all primary pollutant emissions—i.e., thc and co as well as nox and pm—according to research by a team from the pennsylvania state university.
(at the tokyo motor show, volkswagen unveiled the first model publicly shown based on the mqb: the cross coupé all-wheel-drive (awd) plug-in hybrid vehicle (phev).
researchers at eindhoven university of technology (tu/e) are developing a  small-scale demonstration reactor that will process 40 tons of wood waste per  year from the university into replacements for diesel fuel and gasoline.
the analysis found that the top four in terms of  fleet-average co2 emissions remained unchanged.
daimler remains last on the list, having  reduced co2 in 2010 by a below-average 3%.
fiat leads with 126 g/km, followed by toyota, psa and renault.
the  award amount is $1,000,000 for the four-year period of performance.
more... | comments (4) | trackback (0) gm has expanded the offering of ecoflex technologies throughout the opel passenger car portfolio, resulting in reduced fuel consumption and emissions, along with some gains in output and torque.
the 118 kw/160 hp variant of the 2.0 cdti ecoflex consumes 4.3 l/100 km (55 mpg us), while emitting 115 g/km of co2.
the resulting renewable diesel properties varied slightly—e.g., pour points from -10 to -15 °c; density (g/ml) at 25 °c from 0.78 to 0.79; and viscosity at 30 °c (mpa/s) from 3.82 to 4.22.
at the vienna motor symposium, the chairman of the volkswagen group, prof.  dr. martin winterkorn,announced that the volkswagen group will be going into  production with a range of models with plug-in hybrid technology starting in  2013/14.
mercedes-benz has introduced the new actros heavy-duty truck, specifically  designed to serve all applications in long-distance transport; previously this  domain was served by two truck series, the actros and the axor.
more... | comments (0) | trackback (0) ford developed a new 6.7l v-8 turbo diesel, code named “scorpion,” for the full-size pickup truck and light commercial vehicle markets.
results of a new study led by a team from west virginia university suggest  that urea-based selective catalytic reduction (scr)-equipped heavy-duty diesel  engines operating within the not-to-exceed (nte) operating zone over a critical  exhaust temperature (about 380 °c) and under favorable ambient dilution  conditions could contribute to high nanoparticle concentrations to the  environment.
qunfang zhang and yifang zhu found that the ac/fan unit and the  surrounding air pollutant concentrations played more important roles for  determining the in-cabin air quality of school buses than did retrofit  technologies.
more... | comments (5) | trackback (0) a team at ifp energies nouvelles (ifpen) in france has developed and validated a methodology using a grading system to assess the cold-start performance of a diesel engine with a focus on smoke emissions, taking into account a variety of parameters including start delay, engine stability, and opacity.
the range features new two-cylinder engines: the 85 hp 0.9 twinair turbo, named “international engine of the year 2011”, and the 65 hp 0.9 aspirated twinair, both equipped with the start&stop system as standard.
however, the individual pollutants responsible for this effect have not been fully established.
the low consumption and  emission levels are the result of a number of technological improvements: more... | comments (3) | trackback (0) eindhoven university of technology to make biofuels from its own wood  waste; cyclic oxygenate cyclox and ethanol november 17, 2011 the tu/e researchers are working to  produce liquid cyclic oxygenates from the cyclic oxygenated structures of the  various lignocellulosic molecules (above).
ashok selected the 50d/50e ratio as the best of the emulsified blends due to its increase in brake thermal efficiency and decrease in specific fuel consumption, smoke density (sd) and pm.
more... | comments (2) | trackback (0) land rover range_e 4wd diesel plug-in hybrid previews future production  powertrains march 04, 2011
this makes it one of the lowest-emission compact monocabs while featuring output of 96 kw/130 hp and maximum torque of 300 n·m (221 lb-ft).
from 1998 until 2006, the new beetle was fitted with a 1.9-liter turbocharged four-cylinder diesel engine.
the new ceramic formulation, together with changes to the manufacturing process, have enabled the firm to reduce the costs by 50% for its new performance diesel product.
the new 1.6-liter energy dci 130 (r9m), the first in the  “energy” family, will gradually replace the old 1.9-liter dci 130  unit (f9q type), and offer fuel consumption and co2 emissions that are 20%  lower than for its predecessor, at about 4.5 l/100km (52.3 mpg us) or 117 gco2 /km.
the brushless motor design utilizes electronic controls for high current switching to increase the reliability of the motor.
more... | comments (2) | trackback (0) volvo has upgraded the five-cylinder d5 and d3 turbodiesels for application in the upgraded versions of the volvo v70, xc70 and s80.
built by vm motori and developed together with fiat powertrain the new  3.0-liter turbo diesel engine produces maximum power of 177 kw (241 hp din) at  4,000 rpm and torque of 550 n·m (406 lb-ft) at 1,800-2,800 rpm.
other researchers, ra et al. note in their paper, have explored the effects of using conventional gasoline in compression ignition engine, with some of the findings including that with injection timings near tdc, the larger ignition delay of gasoline enabled the engine to run at significantly higher loads with lower smoke with no detriment to nox, co, uhc and fuel consumption.
widespread implementation is achievable with existing technology but would require significant strategic investment and institutional arrangements, the study found.
at the same time, it offers access to new technologies.
the study, which involved the participation of some of the world’s leading energy and technology companies and organizations,found significant changes in future demand patterns strongly influenced by global energy security policies, the technology change that they promote, and demographics.
redesigned 2.0-liter diesel engines equip the 116d with 85 kw/116 hp, 118d with 105 kw/143 hp, and 120d with 135 kw/184 hp.
this year, volkswagen group will introduce the modular transverse matrix  (mqb, modularen querbaukasten) for the volkswagen, audi, škoda and seat  brands.
hecs is designed and tailored for high egr tolerance and combines low  nitrogen oxide emissions with superior fuel efficiency, even under high part  load conditions.
the committee is seeking input from the advisory  committee, stakeholders, and the public regarding the analyses and  recommendations contained in the draft plan.
researchers note that weakening wind patterns during the last 30 years  correspond with a buildup of aerosols in the atmosphere over india.
the resulting renewable diesel properties varied slightly—e.g., pour  points from -10 to -15 °c; density (g/ml) at 25 °c from 0.78 to 0.79;  and viscosity at 30 °c (mpa/s) from 3.82 to 4.22.
overall, carbon dioxide emissions from new cars sold in the eu dropped by 3.7% in 2010, and today the average figure for new cars sold in europe is 140 grams per kilometer.
this equates to nedc average fuel economy figures of 4.3 and 4.5 liters/100 km (55 and 52 mpg us) respectively.
in a paper in the acs journalenergy & fuels, they then report on the use of the methodology to assess the impact of cetane number (cn) and biodiesel content on the cold-operation performance.
sae 2011 world congress, engineers from ford and avl powertrain presented a paper on the development of the combustion system that delivers a leading 400 hp (298 kw) and 800 lb-ft (1,087 n·m) of torque, up from the previous power stroke’s 350 hp and 650 lb-ft along with best-in-class fuel economy.
the new engine is more powerful, more fuel efficient and produces lower emissions than its predecessor.
more... | comments (0) | trackback (0) development of the advanced combustion system in new ford power stroke april 17, 2011 several bowl concepts were considered for the  combustion system.
more... | comments (8) | trackback (0) alberta moving ahead with major new oilsands refinery with carbon capture february 17, 2011 the alberta government has successfully negotiated contracts for two  projects that will advance the upgrading and refining of oil sands bitumen to  diesel fuel.
however, ashok noted, ethanol addition to diesel results in different  physicochemical changes in diesel fuel properties, particularly a reduction in  cetane number, viscosity, and heating value.
a  paper on their work appears in the acs journalenergy & fuels.
their paper is published in  the acs journalenvironmental science & technology.
more... | comments (3) | trackback (0) results of a new study led by a team from west virginia university suggest that urea-based selective catalytic reduction (scr)-equipped heavy-duty diesel engines operating within the not-to-exceed (nte) operating zone over a critical exhaust temperature (about 380 °c) and under favorable ambient dilution conditions could contribute to high nanoparticle concentrations to the environment.
the third-generation mercedes-benz m-class on average consumes 25% less  fuel than the previous models.
more... | comments (3) | trackback (0) various combinations of commercially available technologies could greatly reduce fuel consumption in passenger cars, sport-utility vehicles, minivans, and other light-duty vehicles over the next 15 years without compromising vehicle performance or safety, according to a newly published report by the committee on the assessment of technologies for improving light-duty vehicle fuel economy of the us national research council (nrc).
the new four-cylinder 16-valve common rail diesel engine displaces 2,179 cc  and is installed in a north-south configuration for the first time.
in addition, toyota motor europe (tme), tmc’s european subsidiary, and bmw group have entered into a contract under which bmw group is to supply 1.6-liter and 2.0-liter diesel engines to tme starting in 2014.
more... | comments (4) | trackback (0) volkswagen group introducing modular transverse matrix this year; new  engine families, lighter weight construction, powertrain flexibility february 01, 2012 drive systems in the mqb.
in markets such as asia, australia, europe and new zealand, the new beetle will be offered exclusively with charged engines.
the analysis found that the top four in terms of fleet-average co2 emissions remained unchanged.
for the euro vi version, the figure is around 3% lower, combined with a reduction in adblue consumption of around 40%.
in a paper in the acs journalenergy & fuels, they then  report on the use of the methodology to assess the impact of cetane number (cn)  and biodiesel content on the cold-operation performance.
the  corresponding figures for the volvo v60, v70 and s80 with the same engine and  gearbox are 4.5 l/100 km (52.3 mpg us) and 119 g/km.
with a rapid increase  in the number of alternative powertrain vehicle models projected for the next  several years, automakers will be fighting over the relatively few consumers  who are willing to pay to “drive green”, according to the report.
focus econetic is expected to use less than 3.5 litres of diesel per 100  kilometers (67 mpg us) and to deliver co2 emissions of less than 95g/km when  certification is completed later this year.
more... | comments (4) | trackback (0) a team from the us department of energy (doe) joint bioenergy institute (jbei) hasidentified a novel biosynthetic alternative to #2 diesel—bisabolane—and has engineered microbial platforms for higher volume production of its immediate precursor, bisabolene.
more... | comments (5) | trackback (0) the sixth annual analysis conducted by t&e, the european federation for transport and environment, of new car co2 emissions in europe (2011 cars & co2 report: how clean are europe’s cars) found that volvo car corporation led the pack with a co2 reduction of 9%.
more... | comments (5) | trackback (0) california energy commission drafts $100m 2011-2012 investment plan for  alternative and renewable fuel and vehicle technology program february 23, 2011 proposed allocation of 2011-2012  investment plan.
according to a recent report from pike research, the current trend toward cleaner transit buses will continue over the next several years, with alternative fuel vehicles representing more than 50% of the 64,000 total transit buses that will be delivered worldwide during 2015, up from 28% of total bus deliveries in 2010.
more... | comments (24) | trackback (0) 3rd generation mercedes-benz m-class suv offers completely reworked 3.0l  diesel for us june 09, 2011 2012my m-class.
more... | comments (19) | trackback (0) bae systems has entered into an agreement with crane carrier company, a us market leader in the refuse collection vehicle (rcv) industry, tointegrate a heavy-duty hybrid electric propulsion system into one of its vehicles.
the bifuel 80 hp  0.9 twinair turbo natural power (gasoline/methane) and 69 hp 1.2 easypower  (gasoline/lpg) will follow.
historically, prevailing wind shear patterns  prohibit cyclones in the arabian sea from becoming major storms.
the inaugural study examines attitudes of us consumers toward four primary alternative powertrain technologies: hybrid electric vehicles; clean diesel engines; plug-in hybrid electric vehicles; and battery electric vehicles.
more... | comments (1) | trackback (0) doe seeking input on analysis methodology and assumption for estimating  total cost of ownership of future advanced vehicle technologies october 19, 2011 doe analysis of ownership costs for  future mid-size car.
the statute, subsequently amended by ab 109 (núñez,  chapter 313, statutes of 2008), authorizes the energy commission to develop and  deploy alternative and renewable fuels and advanced transportation technologies  to help attain the state’s climate change policies.
the new ceramic formulation, together with changes  to the manufacturing process, have enabled the firm to reduce the costs by 50%  for its new performance diesel product.
the renewed 69 hp 1.2 fire completes the range of gasoline engines available at the launch.
joshua styron, phd, and his team used computer  simulations to evaluate the piston bowl shapes, precise placement of the fuel  spray within the combustion chamber, glow plug positioning and other factors.
medium- and heavy-duty vehicles are a significant component of california’s transportation sector, accounting for a combined 16% of the state’s petroleum consumption and greenhouse gas emissions within the transportation sector; however, these vehicles represent less than 4% of the in-state vehicle population.
more... | comments (10) | trackback (0)
volkswagen staged the global debut of the third generation of its iconic  beetle simultaneously in shanghai, berlin and new york.
a european study lead by scientists at the university of edinburgh (uk) has found that the combustion-derived ultrafine particles from diesel fuel are the predominant mediators of the adverse effects—harming blood vessels and increasing the chances of blood clots forming in arteries, leading to a heart attack or stroke.
more... | comments (2) | trackback (0) volvo using getrag powershift 6dct450
such measures include the recovery of methane from coal, oil and gas  extraction and transport; methane capture in waste management; use of  clean-burning stoves for residential cooking; diesel particulate filters for  vehicles (some of the largest bc emission reductions are obtained using diesel  particle filters on high emitting vehicles); and the banning of field burning  of agricultural waste.
the low consumption and emission levels are the result of a number of technological improvements: more... | comments (3) | trackback (0) researchers at eindhoven university of technology (tu/e) are developing a small-scale demonstration reactor that will process 40 tons of wood waste per year from the university into replacements for diesel fuel and gasoline.
all transmissions and engines were developed in-house, with production taking place at the plants in stuttgart-untertürkheim and -hedelfingen, rastatt/baden, gaggenau/baden and kölleda/thuringia.
fuel consumption in the volvo s60 with the 1.6d engine and powershift is 4.3 l/100km (54.7 mpg us).
at a press conference hosted by gymcl at its offices in yulin city, guangxi  province, the national passenger car quality supervision and inspection center  (tianjin automotive test center) released the test results of the yc6l-60  engine, which was jointly developed over a four-year period by gymcl and  researchers from tianjin university’s national key laboratory of engine  combustion.
europe’s eight  largest carmakers cut their co2 emissions by an average of 2% to 6% in 2010.
volkswagen putting range of plug-in hybrids into production starting in  2013/14 may 06, 2011
the new actros has been developed to comply with the euro vi emissions standard.
dual clutch transmission with  start-stop in diesel models
epa anticipates awarding one cooperative agreement from this announcement, subject to availability of funds and the quality of proposals received.
the energy dci 130 engine was developed by the renault-nissan alliance, like the existing 2.0 dci and v6 dci units, and the future tce 90 and tce 115.
the aerosol buildup creates formations known as atmospheric brown clouds (abcs) in which smog from diesel emissions, soot and other by-products of biomass burning accumulate and become widespread to a degree significant enough to affect regional climate.
it delivers optized performance, lower  consumption as well as less noise and vibration.
more... | comments (2) | trackback (0) nyserda awards $4.6m to 17 transportation projects; support for syracuse u  supercritical diesel injection project february 09, 2011
range_e is based on the range rover sport and uses the current 245 ps (242 hp, 180 kw) 3.0-liter tdv6 diesel engine, working with an eight-speed zf automatic transmission and a 69 kw electric motor.
(steyr is part of cnh global n.v., a majority-owned subsidiary  of fiat industrial s.p.a., and was originally formed by the merger of case  corp. and new holland in 1999.)
more... | comments (2) | trackback (0) land rover presented its range_e development model at the geneva motor show earlier this week.
under the mou, the two companies will collaborate on research in the field of next-generation lithium-ion battery cell technologies.
the beneficial effect of modern, tailored biofuels in mobile applications  is directly related to the molecular structure of the biofuel as a product of  an optimized production process, janssenet al. note.
more... | comments (4) | trackback (0) jbei scientists identify new biosynthetic alternative to diesel and  engineer microbes to produce its precursor september 27, 2011 chemical structures of fuels.
volkswagen will bring the new beetle tdi diesel (earlier post), unveiled at the chicago auto show, to market in the us this summer as a 2013 model.
more... | comments (0) | trackback (0) coming opel zafira tourer ecoflex 7-seater to deliver about 52 mpg us september 21, 2011 equipped with start/stop and a  package of ecoflex technologies, the new opel zafira tourer 2.0 cdti ecoflex  emits 119 g/km co2.
the combination of the four-cylinder, 1.6-liter  diesel engine (115 hp) with the six-speed powershift gearbox is available in  four models: volvo s60, v60, v70 and s80.
mazda will start introducing the mazda cx-5 this spring in japan and  europe, followed by other markets around the world.
the brushless motor design utilizes electronic controls for high current  switching to increase the reliability of the motor.
gas storage is handled in nine fuel tanks,  with a capacity of 300 liters in total.
opel engineers have reduced fuel consumption and co2 emissions from the spectrum of diesel engines for the opel insignia by 12%, while also making the engines more quiet.
the design gives mercedes-benz a piston that fully exploits the advances in thermal and mechanical durability made possible by federal-mogul’s durabowl manufacturing process.
in markets such as asia, australia, europe and new zealand, the new beetle  will be offered exclusively with charged engines.
the vehicles are also equipped with an eight-speed sports automatic gearbox and the intelligent all-wheel-drive system bmw xdrive tuned to suit each model, as well as bmw efficientdynamics technologies, including auto start-stop and eco pro mode.
ashok started the project by first examining the performance of different ethanol/diesel blends: 90d/10e, 80d/20e, 70d/30e, 60d/40e, and 50d/50e, all prepared on the basis of the water-in-oil (w/o)-type emulsion method.
as part of that, within the next two months fedex  express will place 24 new all-electric vehicles into service, expanding to  three new cities and more than doubling its fleet to 43 all-electric vehicles  while growing the diversity of suppliers it uses for electric vehicles.
this makes it one of the lowest-emission  compact monocabs while featuring output of 96 kw/130 hp and maximum torque of  300 n·m (221 lb-ft).
sae 2011 world congress, engineers from  ford and avl powertrain presented a paper on the development of the combustion  system that delivers a leading 400 hp (298 kw) and 800 lb-ft (1,087 n·m)  of torque, up from the previous power stroke’s 350 hp and 650 lb-ft along  with best-in-class fuel economy.
in addition to lower particulate and nox emissions, using nexbtl also results in lower emissions of aromatic pah hydrocarbons.
the new  engine features a water-cooled turbocharger with low-friction pistons, new  injectors and a new crankshaft.
the 2.0-liter cdti power delivers 143 kw (195 hp) and 400  n·m (295 lb-ft) of torque, with a fuel consumption rating of 4.9 liters  per 100 kilometers (48 mpg us), or 129 g/km co2, in the front-wheel-drive  notchback version.
more... | comments (8) | trackback (0) university of wisconsin and gm team investigating gasoline direct  injection compression ignition in light-duty diesel engines may 05, 2011 a team from the university of wisconsin and general motors has found that  high-speed gasoline direct injection compression ignition (gdici) operation in  the low temperature combustion (ltc) regime in a light-duty diesel engine is  feasible.
this development model features a plug-in hybrid diesel-electric powertrain that land rover expects to make available in future production models, following the scheduled launch of its diesel-electric hybrid in 2013.
the committee is seeking input from the advisory committee, stakeholders, and the public regarding the analyses and recommendations contained in the draft plan.
palm oil came second with a renewable diesel yield of 82.1% (lpg  5.4%); and canola was third with an 81.4% renewable diesel yield and 5.7% lpg.
their paper is published in the acs journalenvironmental science & technology.
since then, this engine has been  heavily revised to accommodate increasing demand for improvements in exhaust  emissions and acoustics.
pricing of the diesel model, which is joining the gasoline-fueled beetle 2.5l and turbo in the lineup, will be announced closer to market launch.
since then, this engine has been heavily revised to accommodate increasing demand for improvements in exhaust emissions and acoustics.
tailor-made fuels from biomass have the potential to reduce emissions of  criteria pollutants as well as greenhouse gases significantly in low  temperature diesel combustion, according to a new open access study by a team  from the institutes for combustion engines and for technical and macromolecular  chemistry, rwth aachen university (germany) published in the acs journal energy & fuels.
although cold-start performance is often related to spark-ignition  engines, they note, the potential increased use of new combustion modes  improved with lower compression ratios (cr) (e.g., to values between 14:1 and  16:1) to reduce raw nox emissions leads to cold-operation performance issues  (start delay, idle stability just after start, and smoke opacity) at low  temperatures (20 °c and below).
this alliance will introduce the use of the hybridrive parallel system ( earlier post) into the north american rcv market and is part of bae systems’ broader strategic initiative to address a range of heavy-duty truck vocations that also will include construction, pick-up and delivery, and utility.
a team at ifp energies nouvelles (ifpen) in france has developed and  validated a methodology using a grading system to assess the cold-start  performance of a diesel engine with a focus on smoke emissions, taking into  account a variety of parameters including start delay, engine stability, and  opacity.
emulsification of diesel with ethanol is one of the possible approaches to  improve fuel economy and reduce emissions of pollutants from diesel engines.
more... | comments (15) | trackback (0) volkswagen introducing new tiguan suv; fuel consumption of 5.3 l/100km (44  mpg us) in bluemotion variant with stop/start may 25, 2011 the new tiguan.
enhance will build the alberta carbon  trunk line (actl), a pipeline which will deliver carbon dioxide (co2) captured  from the refinery, to be used for enhanced oil recovery from existing  conventional oil fields.
at the vienna motor symposium, the chairman of the volkswagen group, prof. dr. martin winterkorn,announced that the volkswagen group will be going into production with a range of models with plug-in hybrid technology starting in 2013/14.
nwu and canadian natural will each own 50% of the partnership, with nwu acting as the operator.
more... | comments (5) | trackback (0) volvo car led co2 reductions among european automakers in 2010 due partly  to diesel success 2010 fleet-average weight and  fleet-average co2 emissions by carmaker, compared with eu target line.
anticipated funding for fiscal year 2011-2012 is approximately $100 million, with the largest single portion ($22 million) proposed to be allocated to medium-and heavy-duty trucks.
california assembly bill 118 (núñez, chapter 750, statutes of 2007), created the alternative and renewable fuel and vehicle technology program.
federal-mogul says that the higher efficiency motors offer enhanced torque-speed performance, with support for higher pressures and flow capabilities.
the  energy dci 130 engine was developed by the renault-nissan alliance, like the  existing 2.0 dci and v6 dci units, and the future tce 90 and tce 115.
the new actros has been developed to comply with the euro vi emissions  standard.
the new 2012 honda civic will feature a cleaner, more powerful and fuel  efficient diesel engine to deliver lower running costs for owners.
also scheduled for launch later this year is the bmw 116d efficientdynamics  edition, with additional fuel-saving technologies that will keep co2 emissions  over the eu testing cycle down to 99 g/km.
more... | comments (5) | trackback (0) opel will introduce a new biturbo engine on the insignia beginning in january 2012.
the new 1.6-liter energy dci 130 (r9m), the first in the “energy” family, will gradually replace the old 1.9-liter dci 130 unit (f9q type), and offer fuel consumption and co2 emissions that are 20% lower than for its predecessor, at about 4.5 l/100km (52.3 mpg us) or 117 gco2 /km.
using a parallel hybrid system with a 14.2 kw/h lithium-ion battery that can be recharged from an external 240v power source, range_e can be driven on electric power alone for more than 20 miles.
more... | comments (2) | trackback (0) the new york state energy research and development authority (nyserda) is awarding $4.6 million to help 17 new york state companies develop and commercialize innovative new transportation technologies intended to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, decrease reliance on fossil fuels, and create jobs.
built by vm motori and developed together with fiat powertrain the new 3.0-liter turbo diesel engine produces maximum power of 177 kw (241 hp din) at 4,000 rpm and torque of 550 n·m (406 lb-ft) at 1,800-2,800 rpm.
the results of their study are published in an open access  paper in theeuropean heart journal.
the companies also have agreed to identify and discuss other possible collaborative projects.
the new alliance will perform field trials this year with a plan for crane carrier company to offer hybridrive powered vehicles to the market by the end of 2012.
in  the mid-rpm range, the larger air stream from the larger turbocharger is cooled  by the larger intercooler.
in the development of the euro 6 engines, all done in-house, scania has  combined all the new technologies developed by the company in recent years:  exhaust gas recirculation; variable turbo geometry; common-rail high-pressure  fuel injection; selective catalytic reduction; particulate filtering; and its  own engine and exhaust management technology, now integrated into one system.
the nyserda funding will leverage $7.5 million of private sector investment  to bring total funding for these projects to $12.7 million.
the engines  will be installed in certain toyota-produced vehicles planned for sale in the  european market.
the zafira tourer ecoflex with the 2-liter, four-cylinder-common-rail  turbodiesel featuring optimized combustion control and reduced internal  friction consumes 4.5 liters of diesel per 100 km (52.3 mpg us) in the combined  cycle.
the nyserda funding will leverage $7.5 million of private sector investment to bring total funding for these projects to $12.7 million.
all engine versions—all of them with four cylinders—are being used for the first time in this model series.
the new engine is more powerful, more fuel efficient and  produces lower emissions than its predecessor.
other researchers, ra et al. note in their paper, have explored  the effects of using conventional gasoline in compression ignition engine, with  some of the findings including that with injection timings near tdc, the larger  ignition delay of gasoline enabled the engine to run at significantly higher  loads with lower smoke with no detriment to nox, co, uhc and fuel consumption.
more... | comments (3) | trackback (0) nrc report finds significant number of near-term technologies could  greatly reduce fuel consumption in passenger cars june 16, 2011 various combinations of commercially available technologies could greatly  reduce fuel consumption in passenger cars, sport-utility vehicles, minivans,  and other light-duty vehicles over the next 15 years without compromising  vehicle performance or safety, according to a newly published report by the  committee on the assessment of technologies for improving light-duty vehicle  fuel economy of the us national research council (nrc).
bmw efficientdynamics technology includes an optional eight-speed automatic transmission, and automatic start/stop function in both manual and automatic transmissions.
from 1998 until 2006, the new beetle was fitted with a 1.9-liter  turbocharged four-cylinder diesel engine.
more... | comments (2) | trackback (0) bmw group and toyota agree to mid-to-long-term research collaboration in  next-generation li-ion batteries; bmw to supply 1.6l and 2.0l diesel engines to  toyota europe december 01, 2011 bmw group and toyota motor corporation (tmc) have signed a memorandum of  understanding (mou) concerning a mid-to-long-term collaboration on  next-generation environment-friendly technologies.
a large body of work shows that exposure to road traffic and air pollution  may be a trigger of adverse cardiovascular events such as angina, myocardial  infarction, and heart failure, with long-term exposure increasing the lifetime  risk of death from coronary heart disease.
the cx-5 will be  the first model of the company’s new-generation products that adopts  skyactiv technology throughout the vehicle (earlier post), in the powertrain,  body and chassis, while fully embracing mazda’s new design theme,  “kodo - soul of motion.”
more... | comments (15) | trackback (0) volkswagen is introducing the new tiguan, announced earlier this year and shown at the geneva motor show in march.
a team from the us department of energy (doe) joint bioenergy institute  (jbei) hasidentified a novel biosynthetic alternative to #2  diesel—bisabolane—and has engineered microbial platforms for higher  volume production of its immediate precursor, bisabolene.
the tourer also incorporates a wider-ratio six-speed manual transmission.
credit: acs, boot 2008.
scania is unveiling 440 and 480 hp (324 and 353 kw) 13-liter euro  6-compliant engines.
this translates into co2 emissions of 114 g/km.
more... | comments (0) | trackback (0) federal-mogul corporation has jointly developed with mercedes-benz a piston technology for daimler’s latest v6 diesel engine that helps to reduce fuel consumption and emissions.
thenature paper suggests that weakening winds have enabled the formation of stronger  cyclones in recent years—including storms in 2007 and 2010 that were the  first recorded storms to enter the gulf of oman.
however, the individual pollutants  responsible for this effect have not been fully established.
the addition of 10% cyclox to standard diesel fuel reduces soot emissions by up to 50%, as shown by recent research by michael boot msc phd in the combustion technology group led by professor philip de goey phd. more... | comments (4) | trackback (0) global demand for oil may well peak before 2020, falling back to levels significantly below 2010 demand by 2035,according to a multi-client research study conducted by ricardo strategic consulting launched in june 2011 in association with kevin j. lindemer llc.
at the same time, fedex express will be adding more hybrid-electrics, using composite vehicles and upgrading more than a tenth of its conventional vehicle fleet to more energy-efficient vehicles.
performance and torque of the d5 increase from 205 hp/420 n·m to 215 hp (160 kw) and 440 n·m (35 lb-ft) while at the same time reducing fuel consumption by 8%.
pikeforecasts that  worldwide deliveries of hybrid buses will nearly triple from 5,514 vehicles in  2010 to 16,328 units in 2016.
more... | comments (3) | trackback (0) coatings specialist zircotec has developed a new low cost, fit and forget ceramic coating offering surface temperature reductions of 125 °c for diesel engine applications.
joshua styron, phd, and his team used computer simulations to evaluate the piston bowl shapes, precise placement of the fuel spray within the combustion chamber, glow plug positioning and other factors.
at a press conference hosted by gymcl at its offices in yulin city, guangxi province, the national passenger car quality supervision and inspection center (tianjin automotive test center) released the test results of the yc6l-60 engine, which was jointly developed over a four-year period by gymcl and researchers from tianjin university’s national key laboratory of engine combustion.
the model is  due to go on sale in spring 2012.
at the same time, fedex express will be adding more hybrid-electrics, using  composite vehicles and upgrading more than a tenth of its conventional vehicle  fleet to more energy-efficient vehicles.
mazda and honda were both negative outliers, with small increases in emissions.
in their study published in the acs journal environmental science & technology, they measured tailpipe emissions and in-cabin air pollutant levels before and after retrofitting when the buses were idling and during actual pick-up/drop off routes.
to  achieve this, the 6dct450 dual-clutch transmission incorporating wet clutches  needs no additional hardware such as a pressure accumulator or electrically  driven pump.
all versions with manual transmission are also equipped with  start/stop.
high nanoparticle  concentrations january 15, 2012 transient particle size distribution  variation over the pa3 in-use nte cycle.
maximum speed is 193 km/h (120 mph) and the monocab reaches the 100 km/h
overall, carbon dioxide emissions from new cars sold in the eu dropped by  3.7% in 2010, and today the average figure for new cars sold in europe is 140  grams per kilometer.
more... | comments (8) | trackback (0) a team from the university of wisconsin and general motors has found that high-speed gasoline direct injection compression ignition (gdici) operation in the low temperature combustion (ltc) regime in a light-duty diesel engine is feasible.
more... | comments (4) | trackback (0) new mercedes-benz b-class to feature new gasoline and diesel engines and  transmissions; start/stop standard july 11, 2011 new m270 gasoline direct injection  engine.
developing 190 ps (189 hp, 141 kw) and 332 lb-ft (450 n·m) of torque, the new engine is capable of returning 52.3 mpg (uk) (43.6 mpg us, 5.4 l/100km) on the combined cycle while emitting 149 g/km of co2.
interested  parties to this rfi might include, but are not limited to: automobile  technology developers or manufacturers; components suppliers (e.g., suppliers  of batteries, fuel cells, motors, power electronics, etc.); fuels suppliers;  electric utilities; independent power producers; industrial gas companies;  state and local government; research laboratories; academics; and other public,  private, or non-profit entities.
interested parties to this rfi might include, but are not limited to: automobile technology developers or manufacturers; components suppliers (e.g., suppliers of batteries, fuel cells, motors, power electronics, etc.); fuels suppliers; electric utilities; independent power producers; industrial gas companies; state and local government; research laboratories; academics; and other public, private, or non-profit entities.
range_e is based on the range rover sport and uses the current 245 ps (242  hp, 180 kw) 3.0-liter tdv6 diesel engine, working with an eight-speed zf  automatic transmission and a 69 kw electric motor.
cummins is partnering with nissan to fit the engine into a nissan titan for the demonstration of the program goals.
one-step hydrotreatment process for conversion of vegetable oils to  renewable diesel and lpg september 06, 2011 researchers from japan and mexico have developed a one-step hydrotreatment  process over catalysts containing ni-mo and solid acids for the conversion of  vegetable oils (jatropha, palm and canola) to renewable diesel and lpg fuels.
the engine is a 3.0 liter, four-cylinder unit, producing 100 kw/136 hp  rated, 105 kw/143 hp max power and a maximum torque of 542 n·m (400  lb-ft) at transmission input shaft.
through applications of the new technology first in the mini-vehicle n box—the first model of the new mini-vehicle n series—and gradually in other vehicle models, honda is targeting top-of-industry fuel efficiency for every category within three years, while simultaneously setting a timeline of 2020 to reduce by 30% co2 emissions for all products sold worldwide, relative to emission figures for 2000.
the corresponding figures for the automatic version are 6.0 l/100 km  (39 mpg us) and 158 g/km.
jatropha oil produced the highest yield (wt %) of renewable diesel (83.5%),  with 4.9% lpg.
one of the most fundamental improvements was converting the pumpe duse (unit injector) fuel-injection system to a common-rail design, as well as increasing the capacity by 72 cc thanks to a 1.5-mm wider bore.
more than 57% of all european orders for the opel flagship model are for the diesel variant.
qunfang zhang and yifang zhu found that the ac/fan unit and the surrounding air pollutant concentrations played more important roles for determining the in-cabin air quality of school buses than did retrofit technologies.
in tokyo, honda motor co., ltd. outlined its plans for next-generation  automotive technology—which it is labeling “earth dreams  technology”—comprising a series of measures to improve the  efficiency of gasoline and diesel engines, transmissions, hybrid and plug-in  hybrid systems and electric powertrains.
bluetec model that which meets emissions standards in all 50 states and delivers improved performance, yet with considerably reduced fuel consumption.
all engine versions—all  of them with four cylinders—are being used for the first time in this  model series.
bluetec 4matic, which offers an nedc consumption of 6.0 l/100 km (39 mpg us) with 158 g co2/km) and has a range of up to 1,500 kilometers (932 miles) when equipped with an optional larger tank (93 liters vs. the standard 70 liters, the latter good for 1,150 km or 715 miles).
the 81 kw /110 hp variant uses 4.4 l/100 km (53 mpg us) with 116 g/km.
more... | comments (1) | trackback (0)
more... | comments (8) | trackback (0) study finds that diesel school bus emission retrofits reduce tailpipe  emissions, but don’t do much for pollution in passenger cabin a ucla study of the performance of retrofit systems for diesel-powered  school buses has found that while the systems significantly lowered tailpipe  emissions, there was no unequivocal decrease for in-cabin air pollutants after  retrofitting.
focus econetic is expected to use less than 3.5 litres of diesel per 100 kilometers (67 mpg us) and to deliver co2 emissions of less than 95g/km when certification is completed later this year.
europe’s eight largest carmakers cut their co2 emissions by an average of 2% to 6% in 2010.
the new engine is applied in the bmw m550d xdrive sedan, bmw m550d xdrive  touring, bmw x5 m50d and bmw x6 m50d.
the regenerative braking system converts kinetic energy to electricity during  deceleration, stores it in capacitors and then uses it to power the  vehicle’s electric equipment, thereby reducing load on the engine and  saving fuel.
hecc mode, a premixed charge compression ignition (pcci) process (a low  temperature combustion, ltc, process), is achievable in current production  diesel engines by modifying several engine operation parameters via the  electronic control unit (ecu).
the corresponding figures for the volvo v60, v70 and s80 with the same engine and gearbox are 4.5 l/100 km (52.3 mpg us) and 119 g/km.
tiguan first appeared in 2007, with nearly 700,000 units delivered worldwide.
the new panda initially will be available with front-wheel drive, with a 4x4 joining later, and will offer a range of 4 engines, 3 gasoline and 1 diesel.
the new engine features a water-cooled turbocharger with low-friction pistons, new injectors and a new crankshaft.
a small number of emissions reduction measures targeting black carbon (bc)  and tropospheric ozone (o3) could immediately begin to protect climate, public  health, water and food security, and ecosystems,according to a study, integrated assessment of black carbon and tropospheric ozone, newly  released by the united nations environment programme (unep).
the following aspects are the primary elements of this optimized combustion system layout: more... | comments (3) | trackback (0) scania is unveiling 440 and 480 hp (324 and 353 kw) 13-liter euro 6-compliant engines.
the 1 series will have a new generation of 1.6-liter gasoline engines: 116i with 100 kw/136 hp; and 118i with 125 kw/170 hp.
bisabolane (2); hexadecane (3), a representative molecule for diesel; farnesane  (4); and methyl palmiate (5), a representative molecule for fatty acid methyl  esters.
(at the tokyo motor show, volkswagen unveiled the first model publicly  shown based on the mqb: the cross coupé all-wheel-drive (awd) plug-in  hybrid vehicle (phev).
the car exhibits significantly reduced fuel consumption and emission values compared to the previous model thanks to the switch to turbo-gasoline (tsi) and common rail turbodiesel direct injection engines (tdi).
shortly after the new zafira tourer goes on sale in the fall, opel will also offer a lower co2 ecoflex version of the seven-seat monocab.
volkswagen says that its mqb strategy represents a turning point in the  design and production of its future automobiles with transverse-mounted  engines.
the use of federal-mogul’s durabowl technology allows piston crown geometries that help to burn fuel more efficiently, improving combustion efficiency and reducing emissions.
data collected by vtt technical research centre of finland show that particulate emissions were reduced by 30% and nox emissions by 10%.
(different than @greencarcongres headlines) diesel [due to the increasing size of the archives, each topic page now contains  only the prior 365 days of content.
mercedes- benz will introduce the all-new 2012my m-class suv into the us  market in september 2011 with two models: ml350 4matic and ml350 bluetec.
with a rapid increase in the number of alternative powertrain vehicle models projected for the next several years, automakers will be fighting over the relatively few consumers who are willing to pay to “drive green”, according to the report.
the addition of 10% cyclox  to standard diesel fuel reduces soot emissions by up to 50%, as shown by recent  research by michael boot msc phd in the combustion technology group led by  professor philip de goey phd. more... | comments (4) | trackback (0) ricardo study suggests global oil demand may peak before 2020, falling to  below 2010 levels by 2035 november 07, 2011 global demand for oil may well peak before 2020, falling back to levels  significantly below 2010 demand by 2035,according to a multi-client research  study conducted by ricardo strategic consulting launched in june 2011 in  association with kevin j. lindemer llc.
they concluded that sustained nte operation could trigger high-temperature passive regeneration which, in turn, would result in lower filtration efficiencies of the dpf that further contributes to the increased solid fraction of the pm number count.
for march 2011, hybrid sales grew 46.4% year-on-year; diesel sales grew 46.1%; and small car sales grew 30.0%.
new diesel ford focus econetic to debut at amsterdam motor show; 67 mpg us april 07, 2011 ford motor company will stage the debut of the new focus econetic next week  at the amsterdam motor show.
the researchers also found that some of the high temperature modes  resulted in diesel particulate filter (dpf)-out accumulation mode (between 50  and 200 nm) particle concentrations an order of magnitude greater than typical  background pm concentrations.
fuel consumption of the volvo s80 d5 with manual gearbox and start/stop is  now 4.9 l/100 km eu combined (48 mpg us), corresponding to 129 g co2 per  kilometer.
fuel consumption of the engines has been reduced by 0.6 liters per  100 kilometers.
the beneficial effect of modern, tailored biofuels in mobile applications is directly related to the molecular structure of the biofuel as a product of an optimized production process, janssenet al. note.
the regenerative braking system converts kinetic energy to electricity during deceleration, stores it in capacitors and then uses it to power the vehicle’s electric equipment, thereby reducing load on the engine and saving fuel.
steyr introduces first production natural gas tractor with fpt engine;  diesels with scr and idle speed management december 02, 2011 profi 4135 natural power.
from 2008 onwards, some ran on  100% nexbtl.
pricing of the diesel model, which is joining the gasoline-fueled beetle 2.5l  and turbo in the lineup, will be announced closer to market launch.
a three-kilometer (1.9-mile)-thick brown cloud has been  linked to altered rainfall patterns in south asia, for example.
more... | comments (9) | trackback (0) jaguar has unveiled a new 2.2-liter diesel engine, its most efficient yet.
honda will launch the new civic at the iaa frankfurt motor show in september.
the car features a six-speed automatic transmission.
(developed in cooperation with bosch, the unit injectors  were located at each cylinder to deliver the fuel for combustion.)
report: increasing fuel prices drive hybrid, diesel and small car sales in  us to outpace market in 1q 2011 april 25, 2011 us sales of hybrid, diesel, and very small cars outpaced overall growth in  the market, according to a newreport by auto analyst firm baum and associates.
land rover presented its range_e development model at the geneva motor show  earlier this week.
the study gauges consumer consideration rates of these powertrain types for their next new vehicle purchase and explores specific perceived benefits and concerns that factor into the decision-making process.
during the initial phase of the trial, buses used a blend of 30% nexbtl renewable diesel and 70% standard diesel fuel.
these results led to a hybrid  new vehicle marketshare in 1q 2011 of 2.3%; a diesel marketshare of 0.6%; and a  small car marketshare of 3.4%.
more... | comments (2) | trackback (0) volvo cars has provided more information on its v60 plug-in hybrid (phev), to be introduced at the geneva motor show.
the debut of the cx-5 with  a diesel engine marks a new push on clean diesels in japan market for mazda.
the range_e development 4wd diesel phev.
one of the fuels which the university intends to produce is cyclox, a  tu/e-patented diesel blending fuel that reduces soot emissions.
more... | comments (7) | trackback (0) 3-year trial shows use of nexbtl renewable diesel significantly reduces  local emissions february 10, 2011