the new dual-powered locomotives are  capable of operating under both diesel power and alternating current electric  power from overhead sources.
the order from nj  transit, valued at approximately 178 million euros ($262 million us), is for 26  dual-powered locomotives, capable of running on both diesel power and  alternating current electric power from overhead sources.
"we are proud to support nj transit and amt in their continuing commitment to provide modern, efficient, environmentally-friendly passenger rail service."
"we are proud to support nj  transit and amt in their continuing commitment to provide modern, efficient,  environmentally-friendly passenger rail service."
the order from amt, valued at approximately 152 million euros ($223 million us), is for 20 dual-powered locomotives.
said ake wennberg,  president, locomotives and equipment division, bombardier transportation.
amt is the umbrella organization that  plans, integrates and coordinates public transportation services across the  greater montreal region.
printer  friendly version bombardier transportation (bbd.to)announced today it has signed two  contracts to supply the first north american hybrid, or dual-powered, passenger  locomotives to the new jersey transit corporation and the agence metropolitaine  de transport (amt) in montreal.
bombardier transportation (bbd.to)announced today it has signed two contracts to supply the first north american hybrid, or dual-powered, passenger locomotives to the new jersey transit corporation and the agence metropolitaine de transport (amt) in montreal.
the order from amt, valued  at approximately 152 million euros ($223 million us), is for 20 dual-powered  locomotives.
amt is the second largest commuter rail service in canada and the sixth  in terms of ridership in north america.
negotiation updates | news | divisions | agreements | resources | seniority |  contact us | site map | railtown | français amt hybrid first hybrid  locomotives sold in north america source:  sustainablebusiness.com news published: august 22nd 2008
delivery to clients  is scheduled to begin in 2011.
the contract includes options for an additional 63 locomotives.
locomotives for both contracts will be built at  bombardier manufacturing facilities in germany and poland.
news | contact us | site  map copyright © teamsters canada rail conference.
the new dual-powered locomotives are capable of operating under both diesel power and alternating current electric power from overhead sources.
locomotives for both contracts will be built at bombardier manufacturing facilities in germany and poland.
amt is the second largest commuter rail service in canada and the sixth in terms of ridership in north america.
the flexible power system will enable the  locomotives to operate across the entire nj transit and amt rail systems, which  include both electrified and non-electrified lines.
the contract includes  options for an additional 63 locomotives.
the order from nj transit, valued at approximately 178 million euros ($262 million us), is for 26 dual-powered locomotives, capable of running on both diesel power and alternating current electric power from overhead sources.
delivery to clients is scheduled to begin in 2011.
all rights reserved
nj transit is the third largest provider of public transit in the united  states.
nj transit is the third largest provider of public transit in the united states.
amt is the umbrella organization that plans, integrates and coordinates public transportation services across the greater montreal region.
the flexible power system will enable the locomotives to operate across the entire nj transit and amt rail systems, which include both electrified and non-electrified lines.
said ake wennberg, president, locomotives and equipment division, bombardier transportation.