"this year, we're expanding the program to  include 72 of our 101 bucket trucks statewide.
today, the price difference is about $75,000 per  vehicle.
since gas stations offering b20 are few and far between, psnh has the  biodiesel delivered to its area work centers by simply green, a biofuels  company headquartered in portsmouth, nh, that offers on-site delivery.
"this year, we're expanding the program to include 72 of our 101 bucket trucks statewide.
earlier this year, psnh was  awarded a grant through the granite state clean cities coalition to cover the  additional cost to purchase two hybrid bucket trucks in place of two  diesel-only bucket trucks.
until the electric "chevy volt" and heavier-duty plug-ins are available for mass consumption, psnh is taking steps to make its current fleet of vehicles as environmentally friendly as possible.
"the hybrid bucket trucks, in particular, are relatively new to the  market," said joseph.
psnh maintains a fleet of 683 vehicles statewide, including light duty trucks for meter readers, and bucket trucks for lineworkers.
psnh has also applied for funds from the state's greenhouse gas emissions  reduction fund to cover the incremental cost difference to purchase five  additional hybrid bucket trucks and 10 hybrid light-duty trucks.
psnh has also applied for funds from the state's greenhouse gas emissions reduction fund to cover the incremental cost difference to purchase five additional hybrid bucket trucks and 10 hybrid light-duty trucks.
a new kind of hybrid starting this fall, psnh will begin piloting a new emissions-reduction  technology to reduce its transportation-related carbon  footprint—gas/electric hybrid line trucks.
"the hybrid bucket trucks, in particular, are relatively new to the market," said joseph.
along with cutting fuel costs and consumption, the pilot project could help "prove" the hybrid technology to the broader marketplace.
" with the expanded program, joseph expects psnh's bucket truck fleet to use  about 70,000 gallons of b20 in 2009, replacing more than 14,000 gallons of  petroleum-based diesel with biofuel, and reducing carbon emissions by 113 tons.
this program could produce a fuel cost savings of more than $225,000 over 10 years, which would be passed along to psnh customers.
"in 2008, we used about 14,000 gallons of b20, reducing tailpipe carbon dioxide emissions by about 23 tons," said jay joseph, who manages psnh's transportation fleet.
as an additional  benefit, the aerial units on the hybrid bucket trucks are able to operate off  the onboard lithium-ion batteries—meaning that the truck's engine doesn't  have to be running to perform certain roadside jobs, which also reduces noise  pollution.
along with cutting fuel costs and  consumption, the pilot project could help "prove" the hybrid  technology to the broader marketplace.
now, on to the national finals!http://t.co/bvwehu7s  — 4  days 15 hours ago tags
search form search recent tweets the concord-area osha office has scheduled an electrical  training/inspection “roll-up” day on wed, 5/9.
each hybrid bucket truck replacing a diesel-only bucket truck will reduce psnh's carbon dioxide emissions by more than 13 tons a year.
b20 is a blend of 20 percent biofuel and 80 percent petroleum-based diesel.
psnh news | return to psnh.com public service of new hampshire (psnh).
starting this fall, psnh will begin piloting a new emissions-reduction technology to reduce its transportation-related carbon footprint—gas/electric hybrid line trucks.
p.o. box 330 manchester, new hampshire, 03105-0330 u.s.a.
biodiesel buckets psnh maintains a fleet of 683 vehicles statewide, including light duty  trucks for meter readers, and bucket trucks for lineworkers.
this program  could produce a fuel cost savings of more than $225,000 over 10 years, which  would be passed along to psnh customers.
at that ratio, no engine modifications are needed to burn the fuel in regular  diesel engines.
" with the expanded program, joseph expects psnh's bucket truck fleet to use about 70,000 gallons of b20 in 2009, replacing more than 14,000 gallons of petroleum-based diesel with biofuel, and reducing carbon emissions by 113 tons.
on the road to a gas-free future april 13th 2009 someday soon, psnh and other electric utilities across the nation will be  providing power for a brand new clean-energy technology: plug-in electric cars.
for more info: http://t.co/dffbecnp.  — 3 days 15 hours ago psnh news: psnh files for reduction in energy charge http://t.co/osh0uguv   — 3 days 16 hours ago hollis 2nd grader nicolas m. is nh's state winner in the doodle4google  contest.
someday soon, psnh and other electric utilities across the nation will be providing power for a brand new clean-energy technology: plug-in electric cars.
until the electric "chevy volt" and heavier-duty plug-ins are  available for mass consumption, psnh is taking steps to make its current fleet  of vehicles as environmentally friendly as possible.
earlier this year, psnh was awarded a grant through the granite state clean cities coalition to cover the additional cost to purchase two hybrid bucket trucks in place of two diesel-only bucket trucks.
"psnh will be able to gather substantial performance data to share with cities and towns, municipal transportation fleets, and other utilities."
as an additional benefit, the aerial units on the hybrid bucket trucks are able to operate off the onboard lithium-ion batteries—meaning that the truck's engine doesn't have to be running to perform certain roadside jobs, which also reduces noise pollution.
at that ratio, no engine modifications are needed to burn the fuel in regular diesel engines.
telephone: 1-800-662-7764 or our tty/tdd number 1-800-346-9994
since gas stations offering b20 are few and far between, psnh has the biodiesel delivered to its area work centers by simply green, a biofuels company headquartered in portsmouth, nh, that offers on-site delivery.
starting in april  of 2008, psnh began piloting b20 biodiesel in 14 of its bucket trucks in the  portsmouth and rochester areas.
starting in april of 2008, psnh began piloting b20 biodiesel in 14 of its bucket trucks in the portsmouth and rochester areas.
today, the price difference is about $75,000 per vehicle.
"psnh will be able to gather substantial  performance data to share with cities and towns, municipal transportation  fleets, and other utilities."
each hybrid bucket truck replacing a diesel-only bucket truck will reduce  psnh's carbon dioxide emissions by more than 13 tons a year.
"in 2008, we used about 14,000 gallons of b20, reducing tailpipe  carbon dioxide emissions by about 23 tons," said jay joseph, who manages  psnh's transportation fleet.