today’s “clean diesels” are  certified to meet what’s known as the federal “tier 2 bin 5”  emissions standard, along with an equivalent standard in california commonly  known as “lev ii”.
different fuels have unique concentrations of carbon, in a similar way that, say, different types of soda contain different amounts of sugar.
the carbon footprint provides an estimate of the annual greenhouse gas pollution, measure in carbon dioxide equivalents (co2-equivalent), from each vehicle model based on both the energy efficiency of the vehicle, the carbon content of the fuel being used, and driving 15,000 miles annually.
the civic hybrid emits an estimated 4.4 tons of co2-equivalent per year, while the jetta releases 6.4 tons per year, or approximately 45 percent more global warming emissions.
a new road: hybrid tech report hybrid transit buses take action: pledge to get there greener link to the hybrid center donate ucs info on electric cars hybrid watchdog:  hybrids vs. "clean diesel" —  tale of the tape
oil dependence a similar story holds when it comes to oil dependence.
this edition of the hybrid watchdog takes a closer examination of the  issue, and identifies exactly which parameters to consider when making such  comparisons.
in short, hybrids still carry the day.
however, the “bin 5”  certification is an exceedingly common standard for today’s gasoline  vehicles.
global warming pollution when comparing the global warming performance  of two vehicles, most consumers simply compare their respective fuel economies.
3) carbon footprint values obtained from  www.fueleconomy.gov.
air pollution all vehicles sold today are tested in a laboratory for tailpipe emissions and given a certification level — a grade, effectively — that specifies how clean the vehicle is in the emissions of four major pollutants: carbon monoxide (co), nitrogen oxides (nox), hydrocarbons, and particulate matter (pm).
today’s “clean diesels” are certified to meet what’s known as the federal “tier 2 bin 5” emissions standard, along with an equivalent standard in california commonly known as “lev ii”.
the bin 2 certification earns the civic hybrid a 9 on epa’s air pollution score, while the diesel jetta’s bin 5 certification earns it a middle-of-the-road score of 6.
first, the compression ignition combustion process that occurs inside diesel engine cylinders is more efficient than the spark ignition process that occurs in gasoline engine cylinders, wasting less energy as the fuel is converted into mechanical motion.
comparing the global warming emissions per mile, or carbon footprint, allows a  direct comparison between two vehicles, while the epa greenhouse gas score  shows how a vehicle relates to the rest of the fleet.
the jetta receives an 8 while the civic hybrid scores a 10.
get the latest green car updates and urgent actions from the union of concerned scientists.
comparing the environmental performance of diesels and hybrids miles per gallon (mpg): the mpg ratings for the civic hybrid are about 13% better than the diesel jetta in highway driving (45 versus 40 mpg) and 38% better in city driving (40 versus 29).
while diesels offer impressive fuel economy and have made improvements to their smog-forming emissions performance, efficient hybrids offer comparable (if not better) fuel economy, while still besting diesels on both the smog and global warming pollution fronts.
this “carbon content” affects how much co2 is emitted into the atmosphere when the fuel is burned.
both the diesel jetta and civic hybrid are top scorers when compared to all other available vehicles in the showroom.
it should be noted that a vehicle’s fuel economy is highly dependent on manufacturers design decisions.
however, the exceedingly impressive tailpipe emissions and fuel economy performance of today’s most popular hybrids allow them to outperform their diesel counterparts.
this characteristic of diesel fuel is why using a fuel economy comparison between gasoline and diesel vehicles to determine global warming benefits can be misleading.
yet when it comes to fuel-efficient  drivetrains, hybrids are not alone.
a number of the performance and emissions pitfalls that plagued diesel technology over the years have been addressed, bringing the latest round of what automakers call “clean diesel” vehicles a newfound respect among automotive enthusiasts.
donate nonprofit software
today’s diesel cars are meeting emissions levels that—for a diesel vehicle—would have been hard to imagine a mere decade ago.
this higher energy density helps push the  vehicle farther down road, getting it—quite literally—more miles  per gallon.
a number of the performance and emissions pitfalls that  plagued diesel technology over the years have been addressed, bringing the  latest round of what automakers call “clean diesel” vehicles a  newfound respect among automotive enthusiasts.
most of today’s hybrids and even some conventional gasoline  vehicles are considerably cleaner, certified to “bin 3,” “bin  2,” (the lower the bin number, the better for the environment) and even  the near-zero-emission california “pzev” certification.
this reflects the  benefits of hybridization in city driving and the strong fuel economy  performance of diesel engines at sustained highway speeds.
on a full fuel cycle basis  (that is, incorporating not only the emissions at the vehicle itself, but also  the emissions related to the extraction, refining and transporting of the fuel  from wellhead to pump), the burning of diesel fuel emits roughly 13 percent  more co2 per gallon of fuel burned than does burning a gallon of gasoline.
global warming pollution: the mpg values help you  determine how far you can go on a gallon of fuel, but more information is  needed to accurately determine the global warming impact of a vehicle.
when comparing diesels and hybrids, consumers should just be aware that “performance” in the categories of air pollution, global warming pollution and oil dependence are not merely a function of the vehicle’s fuel economy, but rather also a function of its emissions control system and even of the fuel’s chemical makeup.
so how do today’s diesels fare compared to today’s most popular hybrids?
while there are other secondary global warming pollution factors for autos, the pollution a vehicle puts into the atmosphere is largely proportional to the amount of fuel the vehicle burns.
second is the fact that on a per-gallon basis, diesel fuel contains about 13 percent more energy than gasoline.
note, there are no diesel and hybrid models that allow for a pure apples-to-apples comparison on every major attribute; we chose these models for their popularity and market comparability.
so how do today’s diesels fare compared to today’s most popular  hybrids?
this “carbon  content” affects how much co2 is emitted into the atmosphere when the  fuel is burned.
generally, the more fuel-efficient a vehicle  is, the better it is from a global warming standpoint.
thus, from an oil security standpoint, merely examining the fuel economy of a diesel vehicle doesn’t capture the full picture.
using our previous example, a diesel vehicle that  consumes 25 percent less fuel than a gasoline-powered vehicle would, in fact,  consume only 15 percent less crude oil than the gasoline vehicle.
the ghg score ranks all vehicles on a  scale of 1 to 10.
epa ghg score: while the diesel jetta might appear to be a  global warming laggard based on the previous comparison, the epa ghg score puts  these emissions into a broader context.
meeting the “bin 5” standard is a significant achievement for  diesels which, because of the diesel combustion process, produces high levels  of nox and pm in the engine cylinders.
oil dependence: comparison of petroleum consumption  estimates show that the diesel jetta consumes about 45 percent more petroleum  than the civic hybrid.
comparing the environmental performance of diesels and hybrids miles per gallon (mpg): the mpg ratings for the civic  hybrid are about 13% better than the diesel jetta in highway driving (45 versus  40 mpg) and 38% better in city driving (40 versus 29).
overall, the hybrid civic (42 mpg) out-performs the diesel jetta (33 mpg) in combined city and highway fuel economy by 27 percent.
as we’ll see shortly, however, the impressive fuel economy  numbers of diesels don’t tell the whole story when it comes to assessing  other attributes such as global warming, or oil dependence performance, or air  pollution.
3) carbon footprint values obtained from www.fueleconomy.gov.
while diesels offer impressive fuel economy  and have made improvements to their smog-forming emissions performance,  efficient hybrids offer comparable (if not better) fuel economy, while still  besting diesels on both the smog and global warming pollution fronts.
nevertheless, diesels can offer global warming and petroleum reduction benefits compared to their conventional gasoline counterparts.
global warming pollution when comparing the global warming performance of two vehicles, most consumers simply compare their respective fuel economies.
diesel fuel, in addition to containing more energy per gallon than gasoline, also has comparably higher carbon content.
when comparing diesels and hybrids, consumers  should just be aware that “performance” in the categories of air  pollution, global warming pollution and oil dependence are not merely a  function of the vehicle’s fuel economy, but rather also a function of its  emissions control system and even of the fuel’s chemical makeup.
global warming pollution: the mpg values help you determine how far you can go on a gallon of fuel, but more information is needed to accurately determine the global warming impact of a vehicle.
like some of their hybrid counterparts they  also offer impressive fuel economy compared to many conventional vehicles on  the road.
many new models of diesel and hybrids will be entering the marketplace in  the coming years with varying levels of environmental performance.
overall, the hybrid civic (42 mpg) out-performs the diesel jetta (33 mpg)  in combined city and highway fuel economy by 27 percent.
additional resources for vehicle comparisons the hybridcenter.org comparison chart provides comparison of different  hybrid models and their non-hybrid counterparts.
diesel fuel, in addition to containing more energy per gallon than  gasoline, also has comparably higher carbon content.
so how do diesels fare against the efficient hybrids that currently hold the eco-friendly vehicle mantle?
4) us epa ghg score obtained from www.epa.gov/greenvehicles 5) petroleum consumption estimates available from fueleconomy.gov
while this is a good general rule, it is important to note that using  fuel economies to compare the global warming performance of two vehicles is  only applicable when the two vehicles operate on the same fuel.
this  characteristic of diesel fuel is why using a fuel economy comparison between  gasoline and diesel vehicles to determine global warming benefits can be  misleading.
*   thus, from an oil security  standpoint, merely examining the fuel economy of a diesel vehicle doesn’t  capture the full picture.
meeting the “bin 5” standard is a significant achievement for diesels which, because of the diesel combustion process, produces high levels of nox and pm in the engine cylinders.
epa-doe website www.fueleconomy.gov includes annual carbon footprint  estimates, as well as annual crude oil consumption estimates and air pollution  scores for every make and model on its site, allowing you to compare gasoline,  diesel, and hybrid-electric vehicles side by side.
it will be up to the automakers to decide whether these technologies are used to their full potential to reduce emissions, or whether they’re tapped to improve vehicle power and performance.
oil dependence: comparison of petroleum consumption estimates show that the diesel jetta consumes about 45 percent more petroleum than the civic hybrid.
like some of their hybrid counterparts they also offer impressive fuel economy compared to many conventional vehicles on the road.
some of this new attention is warranted.
u.s. interest in diesel engines for  passenger vehicles has seen a recent resurgence, in part because of creative  automotive engineering.
as we’ll see shortly, however, the impressive fuel economy numbers of diesels don’t tell the whole story when it comes to assessing other attributes such as global warming, or oil dependence performance, or air pollution.
using our previous example, a diesel vehicle that consumes 25 percent less fuel than a gasoline-powered vehicle would, in fact, consume only 15 percent less crude oil than the gasoline vehicle.
the jetta receives an  8 while the civic hybrid scores a 10.
diesels achieve higher mpgs (miles per gallon) due to two main factors.
for example, the diesel jetta could have a better mpg, but the vehicle designers chose to achieve higher acceleration rather than better fuel economy.
1) performance data obtained from car and driver ( www.caranddriver.com).
while this is a good general rule, it is important to note that using fuel economies to compare the global warming performance of two vehicles is only applicable when the two vehicles operate on the same fuel.
if a diesel vehicle consumes 25 percent less fuel than a gasoline  powered vehicle, for example, its global warming benefit would in reality only  be about 15 percent better than the gasoline vehicle.
epa ghg score: while the diesel jetta might appear to be a global warming laggard based on the previous comparison, the epa ghg score puts these emissions into a broader context.
different  fuels have unique concentrations of carbon, in a similar way that, say,  different types of soda contain different amounts of sugar.
according to the joint u.s. epa-doe website,www.fueleconomy.gov, approximately 13 percent more crude oil is required to produce a gallon of diesel fuel than to produce a gallon of gasoline.
most of today’s hybrids and even some conventional gasoline vehicles are considerably cleaner, certified to “bin 3,” “bin 2,” (the lower the bin number, the better for the environment) and even the near-zero-emission california “pzev” certification.
comparing the global warming emissions per mile, or carbon footprint, allows a direct comparison between two vehicles, while the epa greenhouse gas score shows how a vehicle relates to the rest of the fleet.
for example, the diesel jetta could have a better mpg, but the  vehicle designers chose to achieve higher acceleration rather than better fuel  economy.
air pollution: epa also provides a similar score for  comparing vehicles based on air pollution emissions.
u.s. interest in diesel engines for passenger vehicles has seen a recent resurgence, in part because of creative automotive engineering.
diesels achieve  higher mpgs (miles per gallon) due to two main factors.
let’s dig in… under the hood: diesel fuel economy one of the biggest draws of diesel technology is their impressive fuel economy.
while there are other secondary global warming pollution factors for autos, the  pollution a vehicle puts into the atmosphere is largely proportional to the  amount of fuel the vehicle burns.
such information has prompted some to speculate about whether  today’s diesels might be deserving of the eco-friendly mantle currently  held by efficient hybrids like the toyota prius and honda civic hybrid.
according to the joint u.s. epa-doe website,www.fueleconomy.gov, approximately  13 percent more crude oil is required to produce a gallon of diesel fuel than  to produce a gallon of gasoline.
nevertheless, diesels can offer global warming and petroleum  reduction benefits compared to their conventional gasoline counterparts.
many new models of diesel and hybrids will be entering the marketplace in the coming years with varying levels of environmental performance.
additional resources for vehicle comparisons notes * ucs calculations using argonne national labs greet1.8b model.
air pollution all vehicles sold today are tested in a laboratory for  tailpipe emissions and given a certification level — a grade, effectively  — that specifies how clean the vehicle is in the emissions of four major  pollutants: carbon monoxide (co), nitrogen oxides (nox), hydrocarbons, and  particulate matter (pm).
air pollution: epa also provides a similar score for comparing vehicles based on air pollution emissions.
manufacturers suggested retail price from vehicle manufacturer website.
yet when it comes to fuel-efficient drivetrains, hybrids are not alone.
this edition of the hybrid watchdog takes a closer examination of the issue, and identifies exactly which parameters to consider when making such comparisons.
in an environment where american consumers are increasingly more concerned  about the ecological, economic, and energy-related impacts of their travel,  hybrid vehicles have garnered the lion’s share of recent attention as a  near-term solution to those challenges.
generally, the more fuel-efficient a vehicle is, the better it is from a global warming standpoint.
today’s diesel cars are  meeting emissions levels that—for a diesel vehicle—would have been  hard to imagine a mere decade ago.
however, the “bin 5” certification is an exceedingly common standard for today’s gasoline vehicles.
this higher energy density helps push the vehicle farther down road, getting it—quite literally—more miles per gallon.
on a full fuel cycle basis (that is, incorporating not only the emissions at the vehicle itself, but also the emissions related to the extraction, refining and transporting of the fuel from wellhead to pump), the burning of diesel fuel emits roughly 13 percent more co2 per gallon of fuel burned than does burning a gallon of gasoline.
the bin 2  certification earns the civic hybrid a 9 on epa’s air pollution score,  while the diesel jetta’s bin 5 certification earns it a  middle-of-the-road score of 6.
it should be noted  that a vehicle’s fuel economy is highly dependent on manufacturers design  decisions.
the ghg score ranks all vehicles on a scale of 1 to 10.
manufacturers suggested retail price from vehicle  manufacturer website.
conclusion environmentally speaking, today’s  diesels are a significant improvement over their recent ancestors and can offer  notable fuel economy improvements over conventional gasoline vehicles.
both the diesel jetta and civic hybrid are top scorers when  compared to all other available vehicles in the showroom.
4) us epa ghg score obtained from  www.epa.gov/greenvehicles 5) petroleum consumption estimates  available from fueleconomy.gov © 2010 union of concerned scientists |  privacy statement | feedback | sitemap | ucs clean vehicles |
so how do diesels fare against the  efficient hybrids that currently hold the eco-friendly vehicle mantle?
this reflects the benefits of hybridization in city driving and the strong fuel economy performance of diesel engines at sustained highway speeds.
note, there are no diesel and hybrid  models that allow for a pure apples-to-apples comparison on every major  attribute; we chose these models for their popularity and market comparability.
it will be  up to the automakers to decide whether these technologies are used to their  full potential to reduce emissions, or whether they’re tapped to improve  vehicle power and performance.
conclusion environmentally speaking, today’s diesels are a significant improvement over their recent ancestors and can offer notable fuel economy improvements over conventional gasoline vehicles.
in  short, hybrids still carry the day.
in an environment where american consumers are increasingly more concerned about the ecological, economic, and energy-related impacts of their travel, hybrid vehicles have garnered the lion’s share of recent attention as a near-term solution to those challenges.
below is a sample comparison between two similar vehicles, one diesel and one a gasoline hybrid, that illustrates this point.
the carbon footprint provides an  estimate of the annual greenhouse gas pollution, measure in carbon dioxide  equivalents (co2-equivalent), from each vehicle model based on both the energy  efficiency of the vehicle, the carbon content of the fuel being used, and  driving 15,000 miles annually.
first, the compression  ignition combustion process that occurs inside diesel engine cylinders is more  efficient than the spark ignition process that occurs in gasoline engine  cylinders, wasting less energy as the fuel is converted into mechanical motion.
second is the fact that on a per-gallon basis, diesel fuel contains about  13 percent more energy than gasoline.
such information has prompted some to speculate about whether today’s diesels might be deserving of the eco-friendly mantle currently held by efficient hybrids like the toyota prius and honda civic hybrid.
however,  the exceedingly impressive tailpipe emissions and fuel economy performance of  today’s most popular hybrids allow them to outperform their diesel  counterparts.
for air pollution and global warming pollution scores, information is  available atwww.epa.gov/greenvehicles  as well as the california air  resources board’s website,http://www.driveclean.ca.gov/. notes * ucs calculations using argonne national labs  greet1.8b model.
the civic hybrid emits an estimated 4.4 tons of co2-equivalent per year,  while the jetta releases 6.4 tons per year, or approximately 45 percent more  global warming emissions.
let’s dig in… under the hood: diesel fuel economy one of the biggest  draws of diesel technology is their impressive fuel economy.
if a diesel vehicle consumes 25 percent less fuel than a gasoline powered vehicle, for example, its global warming benefit would in reality only be about 15 percent better than the gasoline vehicle.
below is  a sample comparison between two similar vehicles, one diesel and one a gasoline  hybrid, that illustrates this point.