in the forums i've seen online, diesel enthusiasts and hybrid enthusiasts seem to always be at odds.
when chrysler showed the dodge intrepid diesel-electric hybrid a few years ago, i was impressed.
these fuels are referred to by the percentage of biodiesel in the mix, from b5 (five percent bio) all the way to b100 (straight biodiesel); b20 is a relatively common mix.
you may also find our other pieces ontools, models and ideas  for building a better future useful.
the manufacturers should take advantage of the wait to license the toyota hybrid system (asford did earlier this year) and integrate it with their advanced clean diesel engines.
everyday there is evidence that people are not responsible enough to be those supermen.
let's get that intrepid hybrid out of the vault, update the tech, and  start putting them on the street!!
driving your car is public
diesel-hybrid-electrics would be an obvious positive development.
for more info on biodiesel, look at: http://www.journeytoforever.org/biodiesel_svo.html http://www.journeytoforever.org/biodiesel_make.html http://www.biodiesel.org/
vw  offers three diesel models in the us right now, all of which get about 40mpg  city/45 highway: golf, new beetle and jetta.
i hope more people will cotton on to this soon.
the us$1.00 is valued at tts6.30 to give a  comparison or us$0.24 per liter.
here, kero was cheaper than diesel but the price was raised earlier this year to make them equal at tt$1.50 per liter.
there was something like a $12,000 price premium  tacked on to the cost of a base intrepid and not many people would shell out  that kind of money.
these fuels are referred  to by the percentage of biodiesel in the mix, from b5 (five percent bio) all  the way to b100 (straight biodiesel); b20 is a relatively common mix.
cars turn thier drivers into virtual supermen, allowing them to run at 65+ miles per hour for hours at a time while carrying extra thousands of pounds.
especially foolish when we could switch to something likehttp://www.skytran.net  and get the equivalent of hundreds of miles a gallon, not have to deal with  traffic, not have to deal with bad drivers, and not have to deal with the  hassles of owning a car (insurance, maintenance, registration etc.) and get  from point a to point b at 100 mph.
i reside in trinidad in the caribbean and purchased a mitsubishi 4wd l200 4 door pickup with 2.5l normally aspirated diesel and the only way they come here is with a manual trans.
rider a biodiesel-based, ultra-efficient hybrid-diesel automobile &  transportation system would give a putative hydrogen economy a serious  challenge, especially since the infrastructure changes required are far less  dramatic, the necessary technology far less speculative, and the severence of  ties to petroleum nations and industries far more complete.
the us$1.00 is valued at tts6.30 to give a comparison or us$0.24 per liter.
european automakers are testing the water to see if american buyers, long  ago turned off by earlier diesel technology, would be willing to give diesels  another chance.
i am interested in the bio-diesel technology because the cleaner the burn  the happier i am for the enviroment.
they have had no problems with the cooking oil except in the  winter.
the vw lupo (a diesel) already has some elements of hybrid technology, including a continuous automatic transmission and electric motor for lower rpms.
the only things holding it back then was emissions, but now that we  have low sulfur diesel being mandated by washington that hurdle should be  cleared, and extra cost.
i believe there is a company working on this product called the e-cycle i found the article extremely stimulating.
but the best hydrogen fuel cell vehicles will require entirely  new hydrogen production, storage, and fueling facilities; reformed-gasoline  fuel cells (which are more likely to be used, as they would not require the  wholesale replacement of fueling stations) fared much worse.
here, kero was  cheaper than diesel but the price was raised earlier this year to make them  equal at tt$1.50 per liter.
the carmakers may want to wait for a couple of years; the 2006  change-over to clean diesel will make diesel vehicles much more attractive.
especially foolish when we could switch to something likehttp://www.skytran.net and get the equivalent of hundreds of miles a gallon, not have to deal with traffic, not have to deal with bad drivers, and not have to deal with the hassles of owning a car (insurance, maintenance, registration etc.) and get from point a to point b at 100 mph.
the exhaust is  perfectly clean.
from what i understand it gets around 80 mpg and is about the size of a mini cooper, and costs quite a bit less.
i think its important to mention the aspect of diesel eletric hybrid motorcycle as well.
posted by: frank mancuso on 6 jun 04 news of a diesel hybrid is very exciting.
i reside in trinidad in the caribbean and purchased a mitsubishi 4wd l200 4  door pickup with 2.5l normally aspirated diesel and the only way they come here  is with a manual trans.
most miles driven are sub-urban and urban, and an effient people mover is what is needed.
and we could do this with directly with electric energy (the advantage being that we could generate this with [currently affordable] wind power, solar power and or tidal power).
the mileage being  clocked, hard miles in the boonies as well as highway, is 350,000 kilometers  fairly trouble free with minimal exhaust pollution.
you take a gasoline engine with the best tuning and this is  cleaner.
my friend strain the used oil then puts it in thier cars and winter they use the diesel.
there's no reason why we should be.
vw offers three diesel models in the us right now, all of which get about 40mpg city/45 highway: golf, new beetle and jetta.
bio-diesel could forstall the ever depleating oil reserves said to be overwelmed by demand by 2016.
vw double-insulates the engine cage to make sure that noise is sufficiently  dampened, and their are scrubbers on the exhaust to minimize the soot.
biodiesel is available both straight or in mixes with regular -- and, up until  recently, somewhat less expensive -- oil-based diesel.
the production of biodiesel in large enough quantities to sustain a  transportation network would certainly involve agribusiness.
for many years diesel trains have been driven by a large diesel engine  generating electricity to charge a battery bank turning electric motors to  drive the train.
i am interested in the bio-diesel technology because the cleaner the burn the happier i am for the enviroment.
theepa has more info on clean diesel.
but the best hydrogen fuel cell vehicles will require entirely new hydrogen production, storage, and fueling facilities; reformed-gasoline fuel cells (which are more likely to be used, as they would not require the wholesale replacement of fueling stations) fared much worse.
diesel-hybrid-electrics would be an obvious  positive development.
diesel-electric hybrid buses are available and have been rolled out in (among  other places)seattle, washington and apeldoorn, in the netherlands.
the exhaust is perfectly clean.
there is so much opportunity to improve the environment while boosting business at the same time.
that is our local price.
advances in technology since then should have brought the price premium more in line with peoples wallets now so this is the time, chrysler.
posted by: jamais cascio on 4 jun 04 the vw lupo (a diesel) already has some elements of hybrid technology,  including a continuous automatic transmission and electric motor for lower  rpms.
this is one way that hybrid technology could really  show its strengths: a hybrid-svo could warm up the svo with an electric heater  while running on batteries at lower speeds, much like the current prius does.
such a system could easily use regular diesel and biodiesel, as well.)
how can i learn more?
most miles driven are sub-urban and urban, and an effient  people mover is what is needed.
kerosene  may not be readily available in the us or other locations.
here was a full sized car that was getting better fuel efficiency than most  small cars and was a lot more convenient to drive than other alternative fuel  vehicles.
diesels operate most effeciently when run at a constant rpm and in a given temp range, both of which fit the hybrid model very well.
they get thiers use oil from restaurant so does walmart,sams  club also chines restaurant.
the production of biodiesel in large enough quantities to sustain a transportation network would certainly involve agribusiness.
european automakers are testing the water to see if american buyers, long ago turned off by earlier diesel technology, would be willing to give diesels another chance.
for those of you familiar only with the sooty smoke belching from older  big-rig trucks or the foul smells from 1970s diesel cars, the question may come  as a surprise.
comfortable, powerful sedans could get  upwards of 80 miles per gallonand be carbon-neutral.
i think its important to mention  the aspect of diesel eletric hybrid motorcycle as well.
yes,  we'll still need construction vehicles, delivery vehicles, emergency vehicles,  rural vehicles, farm vehicles and some will want recreational vehicles, but  that is a small fraction of the hundreds of millions of vehicles that are on  the road every year.
for those of you familiar only with the sooty smoke belching from older big-rig trucks or the foul smells from 1970s diesel cars, the question may come as a surprise.
but the automakers opted not to produce them, as the cars couldn't meet strict air pollution rules while running on the sulfur-laden american diesel.
so why don't we see them?
the carmakers may want to wait for a couple of years; the 2006 change-over to clean diesel will make diesel vehicles much more attractive.
the combination of modern clean diesel engines, prius-style serial hybrid-electric systems, and  biodiesel/vegetable oil fuels could provide amazing mileage, cleaner air, and  vastly reduced petroleum dependency.
i found the article extremely stimulating.
stylish sedans coupling the power of a diesel engine with extreme fuel efficiency better than anything coming out of japan -- dealers wouldn't be able to keep them in stock.
while biodiesel, petroleum from thermal depolymerisation http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/thermal_depolymerization , and enzyme hydrolysis of plant cellulosehttp://www.purevisiontechnology.com/technology/hydrolysis.html all provide alternates to traditional petroleum ,there won't be enough to replace our currently wastefull usage.
i live in florida which is warm about 95% of the time.
studies by the australian government show a significant reduction in harmful emissions with ulsd.
svo, or "straight vegetable oil," can gum up the engine at lower temperatures, so there aresvo-conversion kits available for diesel vehicles which use a small amount of regular diesel or biodiesel to warm up the engine first.
by the way, in all these years, nothing has had to be touched on the engine  besides the replacement of the coolant pump 2 years ago.
in the us, the  diesel fuel available in most locations remains the old, dirty, high-sulfur  variety, so a hybrid diesel actually wouldn't be a significant improvement in  emissions; once low-sulfur regulations take effect in 2006, this may change.
as far as the drawbacks of diesel are concerned, they have been taken care  of.
avariety  of companies supply biodiesel around the world; adventurous types can even make  biodiesel at home, using vegetable oil.
posted by: m. rocky rampersad on 11 jun 04 rocky, those sound like spectacular results.
and we could do this with directly with  electric energy (the advantage being that we could generate this with  [currently affordable] wind power, solar power and or tidal power).
journey to forever may be  more to your liking.
biodiesel is synthesized entirely from plants -- usually soy in the us, and canola/rapeseed in europe -- and is therefore carbon-neutral: the soy/canola grown to create biodiesel pulls from the air the same amount of carbon the eventual combustion produces.
(vegetable oil can be used to run diesel engines directly, although doing so can be somewhat risky.
what kinds of carcinogens and mutagens are present in these forms of diesel?
for the past 5+ years the engine has been operating with a fuel mix of 25% dirty sulphur laden diesel and 75% kerosene - a1 jet fuel.
but agribiz is not  the sole catalyst for biodiesel research; as i indicated in the post, the  carbon-neutral nature of biodiesel, along with the simplicity of its  production, make it a much more sustainable fuel resource.biodiesel.org has  some info, but they do seem to be allied with big ag.
but the automakers opted  not to produce them, as the cars couldn't meet strict air pollution rules while  running on the sulfur-laden american diesel.
locomotives, submarines and many other types of vehicles have long used diesel-electric hybrid technology in one form or another.
posted by: jeff wilsbacher on 14 jun 04 locomotives, submarines and many other types of vehicles have long used  diesel-electric hybrid technology in one form or another.
combining the power of diesel engines with the efficiency of hybrid  technologies can have terrific payoffs.
i suppose the answer varies depending upon where you are.
rider a biodiesel-based, ultra-efficient hybrid-diesel automobile & transportation system would give a putative hydrogen economy a serious challenge, especially since the infrastructure changes required are far less dramatic, the necessary technology far less speculative, and the severence of ties to petroleum nations and industries far more complete.
one of the compelling aspects of diesel engines is their ability to run onbiodiesel, a fuel which does not actually contain any petroleum.
posted by: howard on 4 jun 04
it's the only way trains could get enough torque to start  moving, but it is also exactly the model used by todays 2nd-gen hybrid autos.
but modern diesel engine design coupled with the much-cleaner  types of diesel fuel increasingly available (particularly  "biodiesel") make diesel vehicles a surprisingly  environmentally-friendly choice.
the true cost of gas or diesel is easily greater than $5 a gallon (when  federal corperate subsidies to oil companies and federal defence dollars used  directly to protect us oil interests are included).
if you find this article valuable, please support worldchanging.
we drill oil and have refineries and ship the products overseas.
and scrubbing the exhaust is unnecessary when using the high-grade diesel fuels.
as a nzer, i'm excited by my government's move toward re-using our meat industry by-product - tallow - as a fuel.
in  europe, where advanced-technology "clean" diesel autos are one-third  to one-half of the auto market and growing, some diesel cars already get  mileage roughly equivalent to hybrids, so i suspect there's simply less demand.
but personally i think that with current technology the automobile as the primary form of personal transportation is foolish.
in 2006 this is supposed to change due to federal regulation, so at  that point vw and other companies could sell these types of cars in the us.
biodiesel is available both straight or in mixes with regular -- and, up until recently, somewhat less expensive -- oil-based diesel.
we need to begin moving as fast as we  can towards sustainability now, that doesn't mean we must live less  comfortably, but it does mean we need to think more about the consequences of  all our decisions.
for more info on biodiesel, look at: http://www.journeytoforever.org/biodiesel_svo.html http://www.biodiesel.org/ posted by: jamais cascio on 11 jun 04 hybrid-diesels are indeed a great idea within the umbrella of "each  person should be moving 1,200-3,600 pounds of glass, steel, rubber and plastic  everwhere they go".
driving your car is public transportation (very, very expensive, very, very ineficient public transportation) in view of the cost of roads, petroleum subsidies, environmental damage, and loss of limb and life.
theepa has more info  on clean diesel.
you take a gasoline engine with the best tuning and this is cleaner.
there was something like a $12,000 price premium tacked on to the cost of a base intrepid and not many people would shell out that kind of money.
(i would assume that "clean" means non-cancer  causing, but maybe i'm wrong there too.)
the irony is that diesel hybrids could be far more efficient and clean than anything now on the market, without any leaps in technology.
posted by:  jamais cascio on 8
as for autos, ford, gm, and daimler-chryslereach built prototype diesel hybrids a few years ago which got mileage in the 70-80 mpg range.
i believe there is a  company working on this product called the e-cycle posted by: lawson  on 7 jun 04 lawson, i wrote about the e-cycle earlier: easy (and green)
studies by the australian government show a significant  reduction in harmful emissions with ulsd.
most commercial products could be delivered to  within a couple miles of thier final destination by rail, just as fast and more  efficiently than they are now.
as far as the drawbacks of diesel are concerned, they have been taken care of.
we could drastically reduce our reliance on petroleum by going the  diesel hybrid route.
i wish they would sell them here in the us but the quality of our diesel is too low.
they are all really nice cars.
(more in the extended entry...)
but agribiz is not the sole catalyst for biodiesel research; as i indicated in the post, the carbon-neutral nature of biodiesel, along with the simplicity of its production, make it a much more sustainable fuel resource.biodiesel.org has some info, but they do seem to be allied with big ag.
i have friends in england who have been useing used cooking oil for quit some time in thier cars.
thank you, sarah brown
journey to forever may be more to your liking.
but personally i think that with current technology  the automobile as the primary form of personal transportation is foolish.
even better than growing crops to produce fuel, is using a waste product that would otherwise be of little profit for the meat industry, and be an environmental problem to dispose of.
what kinds of carcinogens and mutagens are present in these forms  of diesel?
while biodiesel, petroleum from thermal depolymerisation  http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/thermal_depolymerization , and enzyme hydrolysis  of plant cellulosehttp://www.purevisiontechnology.com/technology/hydrolysis.html  all provide alternates to traditional petroleum ,there won't be enough to  replace our currently wastefull usage.
most commercial products could be delivered to within a couple miles of thier final destination by rail, just as fast and more efficiently than they are now.
this is one way that hybrid technology could really show its strengths: a hybrid-svo could warm up the svo with an electric heater while running on batteries at lower speeds, much like the current prius does.
everyday there is evidence that  people are not responsible enough to be those supermen.
unfortunatly for us political preasure by lobying corporations will forstall reason.
here was a full sized car that was getting better fuel efficiency than most small cars and was a lot more convenient to drive than other alternative fuel vehicles.
they get thiers use oil from restaurant so does walmart,sams club also chines restaurant.
avariety of companies supply biodiesel around the world; adventurous types can even make biodiesel at home, using vegetable oil.
from what i understand it gets around 80 mpg and is about the size of a  mini cooper, and costs quite a bit less.
and that doesn't even consider  biodiesel.
from my addres you will realise that i am a friend of the enviroment using solar, wind and water as alternative renewable energy sources and encouraging others to do the same.
unfortunatly for us political preasure by lobying  corporations will forstall reason.
diesel hybrids turned out to be much better  than gasoline/gasoline-hybrid cars, and highly competitive with the best  hydrogen fuel cell systems (even assuming optimistic fuel cell vehicle  development).
when chrysler showed  the dodge intrepid diesel-electric hybrid a few years ago, i was impressed.
diesel engines are perfectly suited for hybrids.
i hope this is good infomation for you.
i'd like to point out that it's  not only vege oil that can be used in diesel cars.
in the us, the diesel fuel available in most locations remains the old, dirty, high-sulfur variety, so a hybrid diesel actually wouldn't be a significant improvement in emissions; once low-sulfur regulations take effect in 2006, this may change.
svo, or "straight vegetable oil," can gum  up the engine at lower temperatures, so there aresvo-conversion kits available  for diesel vehicles which use a small amount of regular diesel or biodiesel to  warm up the engine first.
you may also find our other pieces ontools, models and ideas for building a better future useful.
one of the  compelling aspects of diesel engines is their ability to run onbiodiesel, a  fuel which does not actually contain any petroleum.
brian dear on 3 jun 04 brian, clean road diesel (also known as ultra low sulfur diesel) is limited to  particulate density of 30ppm, less than 10% of particulate density of standard  road diesel; future efforts can bring that down to 15ppm.
lawson  on 7 jun 04 i found the article extremely stimulating.
it's the only way trains could get enough torque to start moving, but it is also exactly the model used by todays 2nd-gen hybrid autos.
news of a diesel hybrid is very exciting.
when i hear biodiesel i think, argibusiness looking for new markets.
the true cost of gas or diesel is easily greater than $5 a gallon (when federal corperate subsidies to oil companies and federal defence dollars used directly to protect us oil interests are included).
i wish they would sell them here in the us but the quality of our diesel is  too low.
my friend say that there trucks over there also use the cooking oil sam  club, walmart etc:.
for those interested in the effeciency of diesel/electric hybrids at the locomotive scale, there is a nice simple overview at: http://science.howstuffworks.com/diesel-locomotive.htm i am extremely interested in diesel hybrid cars.
jamais cascio, 3 jun 04
it's particularly notable that the results in the mit study were based on  the assumption that the diesel fuel would be petroleum-based.
i believe there is a  company working on this product called the e-cycle posted by:
last year, mit'slaboratory for energy and the environment produced a study (pdf) comparing total lifecycle energy efficiency and greenhouse emissions (including use, production, fuel production, and eventual disposal) of idealized advanced internal combustion, hybrid, and fuel cell vehicles.
it's particularly notable that the results in the mit study were based on the assumption that the diesel fuel would be petroleum-based.
stylish sedans coupling the power of a diesel engine with  extreme fuel efficiency better than anything coming out of japan -- dealers  wouldn't be able to keep them in stock.
the only things holding it back then was emissions, but now that we have low sulfur diesel being mandated by washington that hurdle should be cleared, and extra cost.
diesel engines are much simpler than gasoline engines, will burn about  anything, and use standard fuels which require much less refining than  gasoline, and are safer to store and transport.
i believe there is a company working on this product called the e-cycle lawson, i wrote about the e-cycle earlier: easy (and green)
we could drastically reduce our reliance on petroleum by going the diesel hybrid route.
from my addres you will realise that i am a friend of the enviroment using  solar, wind and water as alternative renewable energy sources and encouraging  others to do the same.
there's no reason why we should  be.
it has good links to material  from other sources, though.
i hope  more people will cotton on to this soon.
yes, we'll still need construction vehicles, delivery vehicles, emergency vehicles, rural vehicles, farm vehicles and some will want recreational vehicles, but that is a small fraction of the hundreds of millions of vehicles that are on the road every year.
companies like asda in the uk are already  using chicken fat from their cooked chickens to fuel their trucks, thereby  saving money and tax, and helping the environment.
the  manufacturers should take advantage of the wait to license the toyota hybrid  system (asford did earlier this year) and integrate it with their advanced  clean diesel engines.
but modern diesel engine design coupled with the much-cleaner types of diesel fuel increasingly available (particularly "biodiesel") make diesel vehicles a surprisingly environmentally-friendly choice.
my mix requires nothing special.
for many years diesel trains have been driven by a large diesel engine generating electricity to charge a battery bank turning electric motors to drive the train.
a diesel hybrid would resolve that divide.
vw double-insulates the engine cage to make sure that noise is sufficiently dampened, and their are scrubbers on the exhaust to minimize the soot.
diesel engines are much simpler than gasoline engines, will burn about anything, and use standard fuels which require much less refining than gasoline, and are safer to store and transport.
we are a nonprofit website, and are able to continue our operations largely through your donations.
hi i am looking for a kit to change my car from gas to diesel.
diesels operate most  effeciently when run at a constant rpm and in a given temp range, both of  which fit the hybrid model very well.
what studies have been made to show either a total lack or dramatic  reduction in both?
the combination of modern clean diesel engines, prius-style serial hybrid-electric systems, and biodiesel/vegetable oil fuels could provide amazing mileage, cleaner air, and vastly reduced petroleum dependency.
biodiesel is synthesized  entirely from plants -- usually soy in the us, and canola/rapeseed in europe --  and is therefore carbon-neutral: the soy/canola grown to create biodiesel pulls  from the air the same amount of carbon the eventual combustion produces.
i'd like to point out that it's not only vege oil that can be used in diesel cars.
my friend say that there trucks over there also use the cooking oil sam club, walmart etc:.
posted by: jess macfarlane on  7 jun 04 i found the article extremely stimulating.
we drill oil and have refineries and ship the  products overseas.
when i hear the word "diesel", i automatically think carcinogenic and mutagenic particulates in the exhaust.
posted by:  howard on 4 jun 04 bio-diesel could forstall the ever depleating oil reserves said to be  overwelmed by demand by 2016.
worldchanging denver diesel hybrid  electric cars now!
thedieselnet site has more info, but some of it is only available to paid subscribers.
and  scrubbing the exhaust is unnecessary when using the high-grade diesel fuels.
there is so much opportunity  to improve the environment while boosting business at the same time.
as for  autos, ford, gm, and daimler-chryslereach built prototype diesel hybrids a few  years ago which got mileage in the 70-80 mpg range.
in europe, where advanced-technology "clean" diesel autos are one-third to one-half of the auto market and growing, some diesel cars already get mileage roughly equivalent to hybrids, so i suspect there's simply less demand.
test-drive a diesel and you will see that things have changed quite a bit.
by the way, in all these years, nothing has had to be touched on the engine besides the replacement of the coolant pump 2 years ago.
hybrid-diesels are indeed a great idea within the umbrella of "each person should be moving 1,200-3,600 pounds of glass, steel, rubber and plastic everwhere they go".
for those interested in the effeciency of diesel/electric hybrids at the  locomotive scale, there is a nice simple overview at: http://science.howstuffworks.com/diesel-locomotive.htm i am extremely interested in diesel hybrid cars.
the mileage being clocked, hard miles in the boonies as well as highway, is 350,000 kilometers fairly trouble free with minimal exhaust pollution.
kerosene may not be readily available in the us or other locations.
they have had no problems with the cooking oil except in the winter.
thedieselnet site has more info, but  some of it is only available to paid subscribers.
i do not comprehend url.
comfortable, powerful sedans could get upwards of 80 miles per gallonand be carbon-neutral.
for the past 5+ years the engine has been operating with a fuel mix of 25%  dirty sulphur laden diesel and 75% kerosene - a1 jet fuel.
diesel-electric hybrid buses are available and have been rolled out in (among other places)seattle, washington and apeldoorn, in the netherlands.
posted by: jennifer on  3 jun 04 when i hear the word "diesel", i automatically think carcinogenic  and mutagenic particulates in the exhaust.
posted by: carl  youngblood on 4 jun 04 diesel engines are perfectly suited for hybrids.
which is why i hate being stuck behind a diesel vehicle, be it a truck, bus, or mercedes 300d. i admit i'm completely ignorant of biodiesel and so-called "clean diesel".
we are  a nonprofit website, and are able to continue our operations largely through  your donations.
which is why i hate being stuck  behind a diesel vehicle, be it a truck, bus, or mercedes 300d. i admit i'm completely ignorant of biodiesel and so-called "clean  diesel".
brian, clean road diesel (also known as ultra low sulfur diesel) is limited to particulate density of 30ppm, less than 10% of particulate density of standard road diesel; future efforts can bring that down to 15ppm.
it's certainly not that diesel hybrids are somehow impossible.
what studies have been made to show either a total lack or dramatic reduction in both?
the diesel jetta also comes in a  wagon version.
diesel hybrids turned out to be much better than gasoline/gasoline-hybrid cars, and highly competitive with the best hydrogen fuel cell systems (even assuming optimistic fuel cell vehicle development).
(i would assume that "clean" means non-cancer causing, but maybe i'm wrong there too.)
it has good links to material from other sources, though.
the diesel jetta also comes in a wagon version.
in the forums i've seen online, diesel enthusiasts and  hybrid enthusiasts seem to always be at odds.
advances in technology since then should have brought the  price premium more in line with peoples wallets now so this is the time,  chrysler.
we need to begin moving as fast as we can towards sustainability now, that doesn't mean we must live less comfortably, but it does mean we need to think more about the consequences of all our decisions.
last year, mit'slaboratory for energy  and the environment produced a study (pdf) comparing total lifecycle energy  efficiency and greenhouse emissions (including use, production, fuel  production, and eventual disposal) of idealized advanced internal combustion,  hybrid, and fuel cell vehicles.
i have  friends in england who have been useing used cooking oil for quit some time in  thier cars.
in 2006 this is supposed to change due to federal regulation, so at that point vw and other companies could sell these types of cars in the us.
combining the power of diesel engines with the efficiency of hybrid technologies can have terrific payoffs.
how come nobody sells a hybrid diesel car?
please email me info, as to where i can get the kit to conver.
(vegetable oil can be used to run diesel engines directly, although doing  so can be somewhat risky.
in a sense diesel locomotives were the first "hybrids".
let's get that intrepid hybrid out of the vault, update the tech, and start putting them on the street!!
thank you, posted by: sarah m. brown on 22 apr 06 email
even better than growing crops to produce fuel, is using a waste product  that would otherwise be of little profit for the meat industry, and be an  environmental problem to dispose of.
my friend strain the used oil then puts it in thier cars and winter they use  the diesel.
and that doesn't even consider biodiesel.
the irony is that diesel hybrids could be far more efficient and clean than  anything now on the market, without any leaps in technology.
rocky, those sound like spectacular results.
companies like asda in the uk are already using chicken fat from their cooked chickens to fuel their trucks, thereby saving money and tax, and helping the environment.
posted by: joseph burke on 18 jun 04
as a nzer, i'm excited by my  government's move toward re-using our meat industry by-product - tallow - as a  fuel.
transportation (very, very expensive, very, very ineficient public  transportation) in view of the cost of roads, petroleum subsidies,  environmental damage, and loss of limb and life.
cars turn thier drivers into  virtual supermen, allowing them to run at 65+ miles per hour for hours at a  time while carrying extra thousands of pounds.