detroit diesel corporation is a leading  manufacturer of on-highway diesel engines for the commercial truck market.
press room wear your heart on your sleeve.
headquartered in redford, mich., detroit diesel corporation is engaged in the  design, manufacture, sale and service of these products, in addition to  supporting alternative and hybrid engine strategies for the commercial truck  marketplace.
"our cdus help customers like schneider gain experience with bluetec emissions technology well ahead of 2010, helping to provide an easy transition," said david siler, director of marketing for detroit diesel."
"by actually field testing the technology, we are putting the units into real-life situations, which ultimately helps detroit diesel engineers to identify every possible issue in advance," said duley.
"new technologies and spec'ing our equipment with energy-efficiency in mind is critical to delivering on that promise." duley added that a small group of drivers were briefed and trained in advance on the cdus to further contribute to the testing and feedback.
detroit diesel is adaimler company.
bluetec represents the world's latest innovation for clean diesel engine  technology.
"we believe the bluetec emissions technology is a very good alternative for meeting new regulations in an environmentally friendly way."
"by actually field testing the technology, we are putting the units into  real-life situations, which ultimately helps detroit diesel engineers to  identify every possible issue in advance," said duley.
steve duley, vice president of purchasing for schneider national, noted that they keep close tabs on the units and provide detroit diesel feedback every day, including responses from drivers and technicians.
" bluetec - daimler's widely  acclaimed emissions technology - was selected by detroit diesel in 2005 to meet  the upcoming stringent epa 2010 emissions standards for heavy-duty trucks.
schneider national has been a detroit diesel customer since 1991, and more than 90 percent of its fleet is equipped with detroit diesel engines.
for more information, go to  www.detroitdiesel.com.
<< back - engines - parts - support network - bluetec - company - media center - privacy - site map - merchandise specifications are subject to change without notice.
in the news check out what's happening at detroit diesel.
"we believe the bluetec  emissions technology is a very good alternative for meeting new regulations in  an environmentally friendly way."
"we are  confident the experience we gain from cdus will give us additional time to  prepare for the transition.
" schneider's participation in the bluetec field test is part of its ongoing commitment to running the most energy-efficient fleet in the industry.
plus, by working closely with schneider, we will continue to refine our technology, ensuring exemplary performance and fuel economy.
duley added  that a small group of drivers were briefed and trained in advance on the cdus  to further contribute to the testing and feedback.
headquartered in redford, mich., detroit diesel corporation is engaged in the design, manufacture, sale and service of these products, in addition to supporting alternative and hybrid engine strategies for the commercial truck marketplace.
search: - facebook - twitter - flickr - youtube - engines - axles - parts - support network - bluetec scr - company - media center
"new technologies and spec'ing our equipment with energy-efficiency  in mind is critical to delivering on that promise."
delivered in late january 2009, the schneider cdus are freightliner cascadia's(tm) equipped with detroit diesel dd15(tm) engines, and have already logged more than 45,000 miles.
they listen to what we think is important, and  they deliver every time," said duley.
"detroit diesel's responsiveness, people, and above all, quality, keeps us coming back.
bluetec represents the world's latest innovation for clean diesel engine technology.
for more information, go to www.detroitdiesel.com.
detroit diesel corporation is a daimler company.
based on daimler's experience with more than 200,000 trucks in europe using bluetec emissions technology and with more than 13 million miles of testing completed, this is one of the first systems of its kind to improve fuel efficiency while reducing emissions to near-zero levels.
the cdus will be integrated into schneider's fleet to gain valuable real-world experience with the technology in advance of epa 2010 regulations.
the cdus will be  integrated into schneider's fleet to gain valuable real-world experience with  the technology in advance of epa 2010 regulations.
detroit diesel corporation is a leading manufacturer of on-highway diesel engines for the commercial truck market.
"wise use of our natural resources is important to our customers and to schneider national," said duley.
check out what's happening at detroit diesel.
get detroit merchandise now.
…or your vest, or your mug or your hat.
"we are confident the experience we gain from cdus will give us additional time to prepare for the transition.
detroit diesel press releases detroit diesel delivers first bluetec customer demo units 5/14/2009 redford, mich. - detroit diesel corporation has delivered its first two bluetec(r) emissions technology customer demo units (cdu) to schneider national, inc., the nation's largest truckload carrier.
plus, by working closely with  schneider, we will continue to refine our technology, ensuring exemplary  performance and fuel economy.
based on daimler's experience with more than 200,000  trucks in europe using bluetec emissions technology and with more than 13  million miles of testing completed, this is one of the first systems of its  kind to improve fuel efficiency while reducing emissions to near-zero levels.
" schneider's participation in the  bluetec field test is part of its ongoing commitment to running the most  energy-efficient fleet in the industry.
" bluetec - daimler's widely acclaimed emissions technology - was selected by detroit diesel in 2005 to meet the upcoming stringent epa 2010 emissions standards for heavy-duty trucks.
steve duley, vice president of purchasing for schneider national,  noted that they keep close tabs on the units and provide detroit diesel  feedback every day, including responses from drivers and technicians.
detroit diesel corporation is registered to iso 9001:2008.
"detroit diesel's responsiveness, people, and above all,  quality, keeps us coming back.
copyright © detroit diesel corporation.
"our cdus help  customers like schneider gain experience with bluetec emissions technology well  ahead of 2010, helping to provide an easy transition," said david siler,  director of marketing for detroit diesel."
schneider national has been a detroit diesel customer since 1991, and  more than 90 percent of its fleet is equipped with detroit diesel engines.
detroit diesel press releases detroit diesel delivers first bluetec customer demo units 5/14/2009 redford, mich. - detroit diesel corporation has delivered its first two  bluetec(r) emissions technology customer demo units (cdu) to schneider  national, inc., the nation's largest truckload carrier.
"wise use of our natural  resources is important to our customers and to schneider national," said  duley.
they listen to what we think is important, and they deliver every time," said duley.
delivered in late  january 2009, the schneider cdus are freightliner cascadia's(tm) equipped with  detroit diesel dd15(tm) engines, and have already logged more than 45,000 miles.