in china, taxes do not differentiate between petrol and diesel,  while sri lanka uses taxation to discourage diesel cars and has reversed the  dieselisation trend and diesel fuel consumption in its transport sector.
-   office 365 for professionals and small businesses.
the bulk of diesel usage goes towards commercial vehicles, diesel power generating sets and agricultural pump-sets, so imposing taxes on diesel cars and consequently raising diesel car prices may reduce diesel usage, but not much.
customers across segments want to pay less for maintenance but still want  more powerful vehicles in return for their hard-earned money.
but the auto industry has not  been given any further target for improving emissions levels.
-  earn fuel worth rs.2400 with citi -   india's no. 1 property site.
- diesel cars could burn a bigger  hole in pocket - finmin for higher excise duty on diesel cars -  should rbi cut interest rates?
content guide follow us on home   | markets & investing | companies &  industry
the world health organisation, international agency for cancer research, california air resources board and us environmental protection agency have branded diesel particulates as human carcinogens and implicated them for lung cancer that is also rising in our cities.
it has been widely proven, over the course of a vehicle’s lifetime that advanced diesel technology translates to greater savings.
the media is already abuzz  with spiralling cancer risks in indian cities.
should our policies trade ill-health for profits?
there is a new number game in town.
indian diesel is heavy with 350 ppm sulphur (50 ppm in few cities).
the additional taxes on diesel cars can generate resources to produce clean diesel for all segments to meet public health objectives.
the fundamental problem will remain.
-  indianoil citibank card at zero annual card fee -  are you serious about your future?
in denmark, diesel cars are taxed higher to offset the lower prices of the fuel.
imposing an additional tax on diesel cars will have negative effects on sales.
petroleum planning and analysis cell says the diesel consumption growth rate  has outstripped that of petrol.
the effect is so dramatic  that the excise earnings from both diesel and petrol has nearly equalled.
insurance + savings... know more... share this  story print this email this add to favorites twitter  facebook del.icio.us digg newsvine reddit
diesel is more fuel-efficient than petrol — usually 10-30 per cent, depending on where and how the car is driven.
to stave off the pressure to put high tax on diesel cars, the automobile industry is desperate to prove that cars use less than one per cent of the country’s diesel.
industry’s own estimates confirm that diesel is already 40 per  cent of the total fuel used in the car and suv segments.
diesel cars, which contributed to about 23 per cent of the overall car market a few years ago, now command close to a 52 per cent share.
industry’s clever ploy is to contrast diesel use in cars with other  sectors of the economy.
cheap diesel is also pushing the market towards bigger cars and suvs that  guzzle more fuel, and undermines fuel-efficiency advantages of small cars.
diesel cars now account for over 40 per cent of total sales from four per cent in 2000; in popular models diesel car sales account for 50 per cent to 75 per cent.
diesel cars now  account for over 40 per cent of total sales from four per cent in 2000; in  popular models diesel car sales account for 50 per cent to 75 per cent.
diesel technology has evolved over the years and we have witnessed an outstanding improvement in the efficiency of engines.
it makes more sense for the government to move to a market-linked pricing policy for diesel instead of simply taxing diesel cars.
click here to know more -    introduce a new automotive luxury car.. know more -   health is wealth.....
imposing an  additional tax on diesel cars will have negative effects on sales.
at stake in this diesel gamble is our health.
the additional taxes on diesel cars can generate resources to produce clean  diesel for all segments to meet public health objectives.
know more.. -  be part of it
the objective should be to continue to make vehicles more economical, fuel-efficient and eco-friendly for indian roads.
brazil has banned diesel cars as it taxes  diesel low.
this will act as a deterrent in the development of diesel technology” with the increase in petrol prices in 2011, the automotive industry has witnessed a massive shift within the rising gap between petrol and diesel prices.
-   improve patient care & experience.
the media is already abuzz with spiralling cancer risks in indian cities.
besides, diesel cars already cost more than those that run on petrol — whether they fall in the sub-1,400cc category or above it.
all auto companies are looking at developing diesel technology for their cars — but this is not to only reap the benefits given the current scenario but for a more balanced bouquet of offerings.
in denmark, diesel cars are taxed higher to offset the lower prices  of the fuel.
2012 has shown signs of revival and stabilisation that are very positive for the automotive industry.
policies must reduce environmental risk factors that include toxic diesel emissions.
new ipad application :business standard's all new ipad app click  here to download for free other  stories - som mittal: 100 million to 100 billion in 20 years - k'taka attracts investment proposals worth over rs 9.8 lakh cr -  diis net sell rs 597cr, fiis net buy rs 470cr - greece still to convince  sceptical euro zone tags : debate |  diesel cars | fuel pricing policy | anumita roychowdhury | suvs | petroleum  planning | analysis cell | who | iacr | neeraj garg | automotive industry |  carbon emissions | rand corporation usa | read  business news in -  now property search gets more exciting than ever before!
industry’s own estimates confirm that diesel is already 40 per cent of the total fuel used in the car and suv segments.
most top-end vehicles and luxury vehicles today are developed on diesel  platforms because of the power and efficiency they impart to the car.
diesel cars also have the legal license to emit more particulate matter and nitrogen oxides that are of special concern in cities.
-   creating wealth made simple the sip way.
this loss will compound with high annual sales.
and slap additional tax on diesel cars to equalise the tax burden for all personal vehicle usage and reduce public health risk.
only from the diesel used by  the new diesel cars sold in 2010-11, the centre is estimated to have lost rs  800 crore in fuel excise.
a levy on diesel cars will only reduce future subsidies by shifting demand to petrol cars.
it is out to kill any  proposal to equalise the fuel tax burden on all cars — petrol and diesel.
india needs clean diesel too, not just for cars but  also for its captive users, buses and trucks.
should our policies trade  ill-health for profits?
the way ahead for the  industry should be to develop better technologies by incentivising research and  development not only on diesel engines but across all sorts of fuels.
anumita roychowdhury executive director, research and  advocacy, centre for science and environment* click here for cloud computing also read - maruti expects 11% drop in fy12 sales - do we need the aadhar scheme?
from the on-road fleet the loss is staggering, close to rs 3,000 crore.
after factoring in the cost of hybrid technology vis-a-vis the  increased performance of diesel engines, diesel technology holds a  cost-effective advantage.
anumita roychowdhury executive director, research and advocacy, centre for science and environment* there is a new number game in town.
this will act as a deterrent in the development of diesel  technology”
these losses will compound with the increased share  of diesel cars and sports utility vehicles (suvs).
only from the diesel used by the new diesel cars sold in 2010-11, the centre is estimated to have lost rs 800 crore in fuel excise.
yes, this may have negative fallout that will be seen on commercial vehicles – trucks, buses, light commercial vehicles – but this can be compensated by introducing lower taxes on new vehicles and on parts and components.
indian diesel is heavy with 350 ppm sulphur  (50 ppm in few cities).
diesel  has also been established as a cleaner and better fuel alternative compared to  petrol.
a levy on diesel cars will only reduce future subsidies by shifting demand  to petrol cars.
despite  the recession, diesel-car sales have jumped 34 per cent in 2010-11.
last year, the suv segment registered a 41 per cent growth rate.
diesel has also been established as a cleaner and better fuel alternative compared to petrol.
diesel technology has evolved over the years and we have witnessed an  outstanding improvement in the efficiency of engines.
to stave off the pressure to put high  tax on diesel cars, the automobile industry is desperate to prove that cars use  less than one per cent of the country’s diesel.
industry’s clever ploy is to contrast diesel use in cars with other sectors of the economy.
the logical  way to proceed is by raising diesel prices marginally.
the car industry defends itself saying diesel cars are increasing in europe.
carbon emissions by diesel vehicles have been curtailed significantly and are well below the stipulated limits according to indian standards, while nvh (noise, vibration and harshness) levels have substantially improved.
hybrids currently enjoy frontrunner status among environmentally-conscious  car buyers.
petroleum planning and analysis cell says the diesel consumption growth rate has outstripped that of petrol.
yes, this may have  negative fallout that will be seen on commercial vehicles – trucks,  buses, light commercial vehicles – but this can be compensated by  introducing lower taxes on new vehicles and on parts and components.
customers across segments want to pay less for maintenance but still want more powerful vehicles in return for their hard-earned money.
this number jugglery diverts attention from the enormous revenue and  under-recovery losses from under-priced and under-taxed fuel used in cars.
diesel’s lure adds to revenue losses.
losses from other central and state taxes are not even accounted for.
especially after the government deregulated the price of petrol while maintaining the subsidy on diesel, the market has seen a spurt in demand for diesel cars.
but they hide the fact that europe has moved to more advanced technologies and clean diesel with 10 ppm sulphur.
with each litre of petrol replaced by diesel to run a car, the excise  earnings drop seven times.
excellent reliability and durability of the engines are one of the main  reasons diesel engines are widely used in commercial applications.
*also head of the air pollution and clean transportation programme neeraj garg member of the board & director,  volkswagen passenger cars “imposing an additional tax on diesel cars will have negative  effects on sales.
carbon emissions by  diesel vehicles have been curtailed significantly and are well below the  stipulated limits according to indian standards, while nvh (noise, vibration  and harshness) levels have substantially improved.
in china, taxes do not differentiate between petrol and diesel, while sri lanka uses taxation to discourage diesel cars and has reversed the dieselisation trend and diesel fuel consumption in its transport sector.
with the increase in petrol prices in 2011, the automotive industry has  witnessed a massive shift within the rising gap between petrol and diesel  prices.
this hides the massive dieselisation of the car  segment.
diesel cars, which contributed to about 23 per cent of the overall  car market a few years ago, now command close to a 52 per cent share.
should diesel cars be taxed?should diesel cars be taxed?
consider these risks before taking a decision.
other governments consider these risks before taking a decision.
the rand study also gives clean diesel engines a slight nod over hybrids from a social point of view.
besides, diesel  cars already cost more than those that run on petrol — whether they fall  in the sub-1,400cc category or above it.
the rand study  also gives clean diesel engines a slight nod over hybrids from a social point  of view.
this trend will explode.
high  petrol prices have kept the bulk of the petrol car sales – as much as 87  per cent – below 1200 cc engine.
the world  health organisation, international agency for cancer research, california air  resources board and us environmental protection agency have branded diesel  particulates as human carcinogens and implicated them for lung cancer that is  also rising in our cities.
but more than 40 per cent of diesel cars are above 1500 cc.
it has been widely proven, over the course of a vehicle’s lifetime  that advanced diesel technology translates to greater savings.
other governments have acted.
but a recent study conducted by the rand corporation usa suggests  that state-of-the-art diesel technology has shown advancements over hybrids and  ethanol vehicles, both for the consumer and for the environment.
india needs clean diesel too, not just for cars but also for its captive users, buses and trucks.
business standard / feb 08, 2012,  00:24 ist doing so has major implications for public health but moving to a  market-linked fuel pricing policy makes more sense.
this hides the massive dieselisation of the car segment.
when factors like the cost of making and transporting fuels, cost to the consumer and various other impacts including that on energy security are considered, diesel fuel stacks up well against other green alternatives currently on offer.
*also head of the air pollution and clean transportation programme neeraj garg member of the board & director, volkswagen passenger cars “imposing an additional tax on diesel cars will have negative effects on sales.
after factoring in the cost of hybrid technology vis-a-vis the increased performance of diesel engines, diesel technology holds a cost-effective advantage.
but more than 40 per cent of diesel cars  are above 1500 cc.
the logical way to proceed is by raising diesel prices marginally.
the message is clear; profits must not get priority over our health.
and slap additional tax on diesel cars to equalise the tax burden  for all personal vehicle usage and reduce public health risk.
with each litre of petrol replaced by diesel to run a car, the excise earnings drop seven times.
excellent reliability and durability of the engines are one of the main reasons diesel engines are widely used in commercial applications.
and since diesel consumption depends on the total number of diesel cars on the roads – those bought over the last 15 years, and not just the incremental cars sold this year – the actual petrol-diesel consumption ratio will be far below 20-25 per cent.
- after maruti, general motors hikes  vehicle prices also read - som mittal: 100 million  to 100 billion in 20 years - k'taka attracts investment proposals worth  over rs 9.8 lakh cr - diis net sell rs 597cr, fiis net buy rs 470cr -  greece still to convince sceptical euro zone more “the additional taxes on diesel cars can generate resources to  produce clean diesel for all segments to meet public health objectives”
the world's largest aircraft.
this number jugglery diverts attention from the enormous revenue and under-recovery losses from under-priced and under-taxed fuel used in cars.
and since diesel consumption  depends on the total number of diesel cars on the roads – those bought  over the last 15 years, and not just the incremental cars sold this year  – the actual petrol-diesel consumption ratio will be far below 20-25 per  cent.
the effect is so dramatic that the excise earnings from both diesel and petrol has nearly equalled.
most top-end vehicles and luxury vehicles today are developed on diesel platforms because of the power and efficiency they impart to the car.
click here to know more -  financial learning now made easier and more convenient.
last year, the suv segment registered a 41 per cent growth  rate.
| banking & finance | economy & policy | opinion | life &  leisure | mgmt & mktg | technology | bs products section home | editorials | compass | bs people | columnists  | lunch with bs home > opinion & analysis  live markets  | commodities keyword price bs  headlines author email this facebook twitter print this should diesel cars be taxed?
-   buy your property with our triple guarantee in india.
the way ahead for the industry should be to develop better technologies by incentivising research and development not only on diesel engines but across all sorts of fuels.
all auto companies are looking at developing  diesel technology for their cars — but this is not to only reap the  benefits given the current scenario but for a more balanced bouquet of  offerings.
the bulk of diesel usage goes towards commercial vehicles,  diesel power generating sets and agricultural pump-sets, so imposing taxes on  diesel cars and consequently raising diesel car prices may reduce diesel usage,  but not much.
policies must reduce  environmental risk factors that include toxic diesel emissions.
but a recent study conducted by the rand corporation usa suggests that state-of-the-art diesel technology has shown advancements over hybrids and ethanol vehicles, both for the consumer and for the environment.
but  they hide the fact that europe has moved to more advanced technologies and  clean diesel with 10 ppm sulphur.
instead of playing this fallacious game of how little diesel cars use compared to power plants and industry, our government has to come clean on actual losses on account of use of diesel in cars vis-a-vis petrol cars and two-wheelers.
hybrids currently enjoy frontrunner status among environmentally-conscious car buyers.
diesel is more fuel-efficient than petrol — usually 10-30 per cent,  depending on where and how the car is driven.
especially after the government deregulated the price of petrol while  maintaining the subsidy on diesel, the market has seen a spurt in demand for  diesel cars.
high petrol prices have kept the bulk of the petrol car sales – as much as 87 per cent – below 1200 cc engine.
losses from  other central and state taxes are not even accounted for.
when factors  like the cost of making and transporting fuels, cost to the consumer and  various other impacts including that on energy security are considered, diesel  fuel stacks up well against other green alternatives currently on offer.
this will act as a deterrent in the development of diesel technology.
know more.. -   only developer to give a guarantee on time space & rate.
it is the government’s diesel subsidy policy that has driven car  manufacturers to opt for their respective dieselisation programmes.
the  objective should be to continue to make vehicles more economical,  fuel-efficient and eco-friendly for indian roads.
mercedes benz has lobbied against disincentive for diesel cars.
despite the recession, diesel-car sales have jumped 34 per cent in 2010-11.
this will  act as a deterrent in the development of diesel technology.
click here to know more.. -   win a business class ticket to europe..know more.. -  exim  bank conclave on india - africa project partnership.
these losses will compound with the increased share of diesel cars and sports utility vehicles (suvs).
but the auto industry has not been given any further target for improving emissions levels.
it makes more sense for the government to move to a market-linked pricing  policy for diesel instead of simply taxing diesel cars.
diesel cars also have the legal license to emit more particulate matter and  nitrogen oxides that are of special concern in cities.
2012 has shown signs of revival and stabilisation that are very positive  for the automotive industry.
it is the government’s diesel subsidy policy that has driven car manufacturers to opt for their respective dieselisation programmes.
instead of playing this fallacious game of how little diesel cars use  compared to power plants and industry, our government has to come clean on  actual losses on account of use of diesel in cars vis-a-vis petrol cars and  two-wheelers.
from the on-road fleet the loss is staggering, close  to rs 3,000 crore.
cheap diesel is also pushing the market towards bigger cars and suvs that guzzle more fuel, and undermines fuel-efficiency advantages of small cars.
brazil has banned diesel cars as it taxes diesel low.
the car industry defends itself saying diesel cars are increasing in  europe.
it is out to kill any proposal to equalise the fuel tax burden on all cars — petrol and diesel.
doing so has major implications for public health but moving to a market-linked fuel pricing policy makes more sense.
the  message is clear; profits must not get priority over our health.