this is how the ex1 concept was born.
2- or 4-wheel drive… • ion is a latest-generation all-electric city car, designed for  business customers and private individuals.
in response to and anticipation of emerging mobility requirements, peugeot  is introducing a new vision, with concrete responses to the challenges of the  automotive new world order.
already a leader in tertiary safety, peugeot’s objective for 2011 is to exceed 600,000 vehicles equipped with the emergency call equipment.
with two electric motors that give a combined output of 340 hp, four-wheel drive and an extremely aerodynamic and lightweight structure, ex1 is an out-of-the-ordinary two-seater roadster, designed for an intense driving experience.
at its stand in frankfurt, peugeot is putting its premium models under the spotlight, a definitive illustration of the marque’s upmarket shift.
peugeot is exhibiting a limited edition 508 rxh at frankfurt: the run of  300, individually-numbered examples in calern brown with alcantara leather  upholstery can be pre-reserved online from the opening of the motor show.
in the first half of 2011, this dynamic approach has enabled peugeot to: - record 1,091,000 sales worldwide and to accelerate its  internationalisation, - launch the 508 successfully in europe, then in china, - update its range at the heart of the market through the very  favourable reception given to the new 308, - reduce the overall carbon footprint of its product range further, - accelerate the deployment of the highly-innovative and unique mu by peugeotmobility scheme.
2- or 4-wheel drive… • ion is a latest-generation all-electric city car, designed for business customers and private individuals.
so, due to its many mobile aerodynamic parts that were designed with speed  in mind, the hx1’s unusual mpv architecture, very low for a length of  4.93 m, results in an exceptional cd of 0.28.
- mu by peugeot is a “new generation” rental scheme  which offers customers, whether they own a vehicle or not, a rental vehicle  from the peugeot ranges for a period of their choice: private vehicle,  commercial vehicle, scooter, bicycle and accessories.
in the first half of 2011, this dynamic approach has enabled peugeot to: - record 1,091,000 sales worldwide and to accelerate its internationalisation, - launch the 508 successfully in europe, then in china, - update its range at the heart of the market through the very favourable reception given to the new 308, - reduce the overall carbon footprint of its product range further, - accelerate the deployment of the highly-innovative and unique mu by peugeotmobility scheme.
for peugeot, the product offensive launched in 2010 continues and expands in 2011 with two strategic means of leverage: internationalisation and an enhanced brand positioning.
in  2011, peugeot scooters is launching the electric e-vivacity and the 125 cc  citystar.
in response to and anticipation of emerging mobility requirements, peugeot is introducing a new vision, with concrete responses to the challenges of the automotive new world order.
- peugeot scooters, the longest–standing manufacturer of motorised two-wheelers in the world and fourth european marque in 2010, is following an ambitious development plan and now includes 22 models between 50 and 500 cc.
to illustrate this dynamic approach, peugeot: - is deploying its diesel-electric hybrid technology on the 508 rxh  following its release on the 3008 hybrid4, - is unveiling the hx1, a  marriage of radical styling and environmental excellence, - is exhibiting  its premium platform models: 508, 3008 hybrid4, rcz, - is reaffirming its  position as automotive environmental leader, - is presenting its vision of  the new world order in the automotive sector.
- mu by peugeot is a “new generation” rental scheme which offers customers, whether they own a vehicle or not, a rental vehicle from the peugeot ranges for a period of their choice: private vehicle, commercial vehicle, scooter, bicycle and accessories.
an exclusive interpretation from the peugeot design centre, the design lab dl-121 exhibited at frankfurt is a limited production run concept bike which, with its coppered finish, brings a new dimension to the world of cycling.
- peugeot scooters, the longest–standing manufacturer of motorised  two-wheelers in the world and fourth european marque in 2010, is following an  ambitious development plan and now includes 22 models between 50 and 500 cc.
an exclusive interpretation from the peugeot design centre, the design lab  dl-121 exhibited at frankfurt is a limited production run concept bike which,  with its coppered finish, brings a new dimension to the world of cycling.
the automotive new world order: peugeot is one step ahead
through its appealing styling, the impressive environmental credentials of its extensive range of engines and cutting-edge technology, along with its pleasant onboard surroundings and the driving experience it provides, the 508 (saloon or sw) offers a modern range at one with the aspirations of its dynamic, responsible and discerning customers.
508 rxh: diesel-electric hybrid and distinctive appeal peugeot unveils the 508 rxh, its completely individual third model in the  508 range.
the new peugeot cycles range, boasting more than 50 models, is tailored to wide-ranging requirements.
it is an  incarnation of a modern and different upmarket range from peugeot, both in its  dimensions and its visual identity, through the choice of a unique hybrid  high-tech diesel engine and electric motor with a single, lavishly-appointed  trim level.
all-electric, practical and  modern, intuitive and nippy; the e-vivacity offers a range of 60 km (37 miles)  and an average energy cost of €0.4/100 km, thanks to its next generation  compact lithium-ion batteries.
the marque forecasts the deployment of 75 new mu sites per year, with an  objective of 300 sites across europe by 2013.
the same special care has played an integral role in the direction taken  with the distinctive design of the 508 rxh interior, harmonising specific  colours and natural materials.
- peugeot actively seeks to reduce the co2 emissions of its vehicle range:  the average emissions of the marque’s models were measured in the first  half of 2011 at 129.8 g/km co2 compared to 131.3 in 2010, therefore dropping  below the 130 g/km limit set for 2015 by the european commission.
its four reverse-opening doors provide access to the interior of hx1, the  marque’s vision of a high-end passenger compartment, which combines  elegance and modernity, natural materials and ultra-high technological  specification.
in frankfurt, the dynamism of the rcz is revealed with: • a limited-edition “asphalt” version which is  distinguished from the standard 200 hp version by its telluric matt grey  bodywork, its two-tone 19” wheels and many distinctive  “asphalt” features; • and a 200 bhp 2.0 l hdi version, which was victorious at the 2011  “24 hours nürburgring” in the diesel category, and is the  current diesel category leader in the german vln endurance championship.
- 3008 hybrid4 - the first diesel hybrid in the world
its visual signature is enhanced by its individual front end character,  flared wings, daytime running lights signature and a new exclusive body colour.
the diesel-electric hybrid; a new level of driving pleasure illustrating the cross-platform, modular versatility of hybrid4 technology,  the 508 rxh is, after the hybrid4 3008, the second of the marque’s models  to receive the diesel-electric hybrid power plant.
but for peugeot, “electricity” can also mean  “intensity”.
in the first half of 2011 the 508 and the new 308 launched the e-hdi  innovative technology, the new generationstop & start system,  which reduces fuel consumption by nearly 15% in urban drive cycle, prior to its  deployment in the second half of the year on the 3008, the 5008 and partner  (van and tepee).
in frankfurt, the 508 rxh, the hx1 concept and the 908 hybrid4 which peugeot sport is currently developing, are all demonstrations of peugeot’s pioneering and determined approach to diesel-electric hybridization.
so, due to its many mobile aerodynamic parts that were designed with speed in mind, the hx1’s unusual mpv architecture, very low for a length of 4.93 m, results in an exceptional cd of 0.28.
it offers its occupants an exceptional level of interior space,  an innovative modular design with its original “4+2” configuration,  and provides the driver with a driving position that can be adapted to suit  driving conditions.
with a combined power output of 299 bhp from the 2.2 litre hdi engine  driving the front wheels and the electric motor integrated into the rear axle,  its diesel-electric hybrid drive train provides the functionality of hybrid4  technology such as four-wheel drive and the ‘all electric’ mode  with an increased potential range of 30 km (18.6 miles) due to the “plug  in” function.
- at frankfurt, peugeot is presenting its pan-european online services.
furthermore, due to its hybrid4 drive train, it offers a responsible and  intelligent alternative vision.
in 2011, peugeot scooters is launching the electric e-vivacity and the 125 cc citystar.
hx1: multi-purpose concept car the hx1, making its worldwide début in frankfurt, is a concept for  gauging interest which has a specification to seat up to six people in a  vehicle with unconventional styling: robust, sporty, integrating the new brand  identity, unparalleled aerodynamics, and providing a unique interior space and  driving experience.
e-hdi combines the 1.6 l hdi euro 5 engine and a reversible-alternator which provides thestop & start system function, supplemented by a braking energy recovery system and hybrid battery that delivers additional power at start-up.
rising to this challenge, the designers have placed adaptability at the heart of their creation: the hx1 can metamorphose to suit its environment, the driving conditions and the expectations of its occupants.
back to news homepage.
it is an incarnation of a modern and different upmarket range from peugeot, both in its dimensions and its visual identity, through the choice of a unique hybrid high-tech diesel engine and electric motor with a single, lavishly-appointed trim level.
- since its highly-anticipated launch in spring 2010, the rcz sports  coupé has exceeded expectations, and has taken pole position among  sports coupés in its class in europe.
with its wider track, its 18’’ wheels and raised attitude the  508 rxh has a natural stance that is inspired by its all-road capability.
environmental leadership
at the peugeot stand in frankfurt, the e-vivacity scooter is another  illustration of the marque’s response to new expectations in terms of  “zero emissions” urban mobility.
the distinguished recipient of several awards in europe, ion has received over 2,000 orders at the end of june 2011.
available as an option or as standard on almost all range models, peugeot  connect strengthens peugeot’s leading position in matters of tertiary  safety.
with two electric  motors that give a combined output of 340 hp, four-wheel drive and an extremely  aerodynamic and lightweight structure, ex1 is an out-of-the-ordinary two-seater  roadster, designed for an intense driving experience.
- demand for the 3008 crossover continues to impress with sales up in the first half of 2011 (74,000) which are once again on the increase with a demand mainly for the range-topping versions.
- peugeot actively seeks to reduce the co2 emissions of its vehicle range: the average emissions of the marque’s models were measured in the first half of 2011 at 129.8 g/km co2 compared to 131.3 in 2010, therefore dropping below the 130 g/km limit set for 2015 by the european commission.
with a combined power output of 299 bhp from the 2.2 litre hdi engine driving the front wheels and the electric motor integrated into the rear axle, its diesel-electric hybrid drive train provides the functionality of hybrid4 technology such as four-wheel drive and the ‘all electric’ mode with an increased potential range of 30 km (18.6 miles) due to the “plug in” function.
508 rxh: diesel-electric hybrid and distinctive appeal peugeot unveils the 508 rxh, its completely individual third model in the 508 range.
at the peugeot stand in frankfurt, the e-vivacity scooter is another illustration of the marque’s response to new expectations in terms of “zero emissions” urban mobility.
the lithium-ion batteries powering the 64 hp electric motor permit a top speed of 130 km/h (80 mph) and a range of 150 km (93 miles).
in frankfurt, the dynamism of the rcz is revealed with: • a limited-edition “asphalt” version which is distinguished from the standard 200 hp version by its telluric matt grey bodywork, its two-tone 19” wheels and many distinctive “asphalt” features; • and a 200 bhp 2.0 l hdi version, which was victorious at the 2011 “24 hours nürburgring” in the diesel category, and is the current diesel category leader in the german vln endurance championship.
in frankfurt, the 508 rxh, the hx1 concept and the 908 hybrid4 which  peugeot sport is currently developing, are all demonstrations of  peugeot’s pioneering and determined approach to diesel-electric  hybridization.
yet peugeot’s environmental commitment is being reflected in practice in 2011, through the major advances that the marque is exhibiting in frankfurt.
- e-hdi, micro-hybrid technology
rising to this challenge, the designers have placed adaptability at the  heart of their creation: the hx1 can metamorphose to suit its environment, the  driving conditions and the expectations of its occupants.
by launching the world’s first diesel hybrid vehicle in the second half of 2011, peugeot is offering an exclusive range in terms of environmentally-friendly functionality and driving pleasure.
with its wider track, its 18’’ wheels and raised attitude the 508 rxh has a natural stance that is inspired by its all-road capability.
already a leader in tertiary safety, peugeot’s objective for 2011 is  to exceed 600,000 vehicles equipped with the emergency call equipment.
an expression of peugeot’s enhanced appeal with its upmarket  trend when it is released in spring 2012, a year after the launch of the 508, the  508 rxh is to be considered as a completely separate model.
at its stand in frankfurt, peugeot is putting its premium models under the  spotlight, a definitive illustration of the marque’s upmarket shift.
- after a successful launch in europe in the first half of 2011 (with 57,000 sales by the end of june), then its release onto the chinese market in august, the 508 is reaffirming the marque’s ambitions regarding one of its historical territories, the large car.
to illustrate this dynamic approach, peugeot: - is deploying its diesel-electric hybrid technology on the 508 rxh following its release on the 3008 hybrid4, - is unveiling the hx1, a marriage of radical styling and environmental excellence, - is exhibiting its premium platform models: 508, 3008 hybrid4, rcz, - is reaffirming its position as automotive environmental leader, - is presenting its vision of the new world order in the automotive sector.
the distinguished recipient of several awards in europe, ion  has received over 2,000 orders at the end of june 2011.
april - june 2010 january - march 2010 two world debuts from peugeot: 508 rxh, the distinctive-looking  diesel-electric hybrid and the multi-purpose hx1 concept car peugeot 508 rxh for peugeot, the product offensive launched in 2010 continues and expands  in 2011 with two strategic means of leverage: internationalisation and an  enhanced brand positioning.
furthermore, due to its hybrid4 drive train, it offers a responsible and intelligent alternative vision.
the  e-bike ae-11 in the allure range, brings ride enjoyment with its innovative  soft feel and very reliable panasonic li-ion manganese12 ah battery.
the ex1 has already set or broken several validated records for  acceleration in france, germany and china.
due to the variety of its range, now enhanced by electric vehicles, its  ease of use and its contained tariffs,mu by peugeot already has more  than 8,000 customers in eight european countries.
the hx1 thus obtains an astonishingly low combined fuel consumption of 3.2 l/100 km (88.2 mpg) with impressive co2 emissions of 83 g/km.
- for peugeot, the bicycle represents a history of 120 years of passion.
on the 3008 crossover, the hybridization of a 2.0 hdi fap diesel engine  developing 163 bhp driving the front wheels and an electric motor developing 37  bhp on the rear axle, can reconcile a new driving experience, through  four-wheel drive, a maximum output of 200 bhp, a “zero emissions  vehicle” mode, and an average fuel consumption of 3.8 l/100 km (74.3 mpg)  with 99 g/km co2), down 35% on an internal combustion engine with a similar  power output.
the ex1 has already set or broken several validated records for acceleration in france, germany and china.
the e-bike ae-11 in the allure range, brings ride enjoyment with its innovative soft feel and very reliable panasonic li-ion manganese12 ah battery.
its visual signature is enhanced by its individual front end character, flared wings, daytime running lights signature and a new exclusive body colour.
even before the arrival of the 3008 hybrid4 on the market, the 3008, and  the effective way in which the 5008 compact mpv complements it, is enabling  peugeot to stake its claim as a key player in the highly-competitive  “midsize” market.
by launching the world’s first diesel hybrid vehicle in the second  half of 2011, peugeot is offering an exclusive range in terms of  environmentally-friendly functionality and driving pleasure.
peugeot connect has three features: peugeot connect sos emergency callout,peugeot connect assistance breakdown assistance and peugeot connect fleetfor fleet management services.
in the first half of 2011 the 508 and the new 308 launched the e-hdi innovative technology, the new generationstop & start system, which reduces fuel consumption by nearly 15% in urban drive cycle, prior to its deployment in the second half of the year on the 3008, the 5008 and partner (van and tepee).
with a combined output of 200 bhp from its 2.0 hdi fap diesel engine and electric motor on the rear axle, the 508 rxh is able to provide for the desires for a new driving experience with a choice of four hybrid4 modes (automatic, “zero emissions vehicle”, sport or 4wd) and exceptional fuel economy (4.0 l/100 km (70.6 mpg) in the combined drive cycle, and co2 of 109 g/km).
- demand for the 3008 crossover continues to impress with sales up in the  first half of 2011 (74,000) which are once again on the increase with a demand  mainly for the range-topping versions.
peugeot connect has three features: peugeot connect sos emergency  callout,peugeot connect assistance breakdown assistance and peugeot connect fleetfor fleet management services.
2011 focusing on acceleration
- since its highly-anticipated launch in spring 2010, the rcz sports coupé has exceeded expectations, and has taken pole position among sports coupés in its class in europe.
the diesel-electric hybrid; a new level of driving pleasure illustrating the cross-platform, modular versatility of hybrid4 technology, the 508 rxh is, after the hybrid4 3008, the second of the marque’s models to receive the diesel-electric hybrid power plant.
with a combined output of 200 bhp from its 2.0 hdi fap diesel engine and  electric motor on the rear axle, the 508 rxh is able to provide for the desires  for a new driving experience with a choice of four hybrid4 modes (automatic,  “zero emissions vehicle”, sport or 4wd) and exceptional fuel  economy (4.0 l/100 km (70.6 mpg) in the combined drive cycle, and co2 of 109  g/km).
through its appealing styling, the impressive environmental credentials of  its extensive range of engines and cutting-edge technology, along with its  pleasant onboard surroundings and the driving experience it provides, the 508  (saloon or sw) offers a modern range at one with the aspirations of its  dynamic, responsible and discerning customers.
peugeot is exhibiting a limited edition 508 rxh at frankfurt: the run of 300, individually-numbered examples in calern brown with alcantara leather upholstery can be pre-reserved online from the opening of the motor show.
it offers its occupants an exceptional level of interior space, an innovative modular design with its original “4+2” configuration, and provides the driver with a driving position that can be adapted to suit driving conditions.
e-hdi combines the 1.6 l hdi euro 5 engine and a reversible-alternator  which provides thestop & start system function, supplemented by a  braking energy recovery system and hybrid battery that delivers additional  power at start-up.
the new peugeot cycles range, boasting more than 50 models, is tailored to  wide-ranging requirements.
an expression of peugeot’s enhanced appeal with its upmarket trend when it is released in spring 2012, a year after the launch of the 508, the 508 rxh is to be considered as a completely separate model.
yet peugeot’s environmental commitment is being reflected in practice  in 2011, through the major advances that the marque is exhibiting in frankfurt.
the same special care has played an integral role in the direction taken with the distinctive design of the 508 rxh interior, harmonising specific colours and natural materials.
its four reverse-opening doors provide access to the interior of hx1, the marque’s vision of a high-end passenger compartment, which combines elegance and modernity, natural materials and ultra-high technological specification.
the marque forecasts the deployment of 75 new mu sites per year, with an objective of 300 sites across europe by 2013.
hx1: multi-purpose concept car the hx1, making its worldwide début in frankfurt, is a concept for gauging interest which has a specification to seat up to six people in a vehicle with unconventional styling: robust, sporty, integrating the new brand identity, unparalleled aerodynamics, and providing a unique interior space and driving experience.
available as an option or as standard on almost all range models, peugeot connect strengthens peugeot’s leading position in matters of tertiary safety.
due to the variety of its range, now enhanced by electric vehicles, its ease of use and its contained tariffs,mu by peugeot already has more than 8,000 customers in eight european countries.
on the 3008 crossover, the hybridization of a 2.0 hdi fap diesel engine developing 163 bhp driving the front wheels and an electric motor developing 37 bhp on the rear axle, can reconcile a new driving experience, through four-wheel drive, a maximum output of 200 bhp, a “zero emissions vehicle” mode, and an average fuel consumption of 3.8 l/100 km (74.3 mpg) with 99 g/km co2), down 35% on an internal combustion engine with a similar power output.
even before the arrival of the 3008 hybrid4 on the market, the 3008, and the effective way in which the 5008 compact mpv complements it, is enabling peugeot to stake its claim as a key player in the highly-competitive “midsize” market.
the lithium-ion batteries powering  the 64 hp electric motor permit a top speed of 130 km/h (80 mph) and a range of  150 km (93 miles).
the hx1 thus obtains an astonishingly low combined fuel consumption of 3.2  l/100 km (88.2 mpg) with impressive co2 emissions of 83 g/km.
all-electric, practical and modern, intuitive and nippy; the e-vivacity offers a range of 60 km (37 miles) and an average energy cost of €0.4/100 km, thanks to its next generation compact lithium-ion batteries.
- after a successful launch in europe in the first half of 2011 (with  57,000 sales by the end of june), then its release onto the chinese market in  august, the 508 is reaffirming the marque’s ambitions regarding one of  its historical territories, the large car.
but for peugeot, “electricity” can also mean “intensity”.