the first earth angel award winner was selected by a jury of 12 respected automotive journalists.
bridgestone sponsored the  inaugural award.
press play to view the earth  angel award video - (24 mb) quicktime users be patient,  video may take 1-2 minutes to load if you don't have  quicktime -download
auto advice & tips auto products auto buyer's guides car care & maintenance car of the year awards earth, wind & power awards insurance & accidents legends & leaders new car reviews news & views planet driven road humor road trips safety & security teens & tots used car buying vehicle model guide vehicle safety ratings what women want
of those contacted bmw, daimler, ford motor company, general motors, american honda, hyundai, subaru and toyota responded.
“our goal is to shed light on these many positive accomplishments, especially those not known to the general public or media.”
a number of automakers are creating more fuel efficient vehicles, including hybrids and ethanol (e85) versions.
to celebrate this work, the icoty awards launched its  inaugural earth angel award, which honored general motors corporation  as the automaker who contributed the most to aiding environmental  improvements and initiatives on a world wide level.
additionally, automotive companies are working to reduce the energy they consume by using greener power supplies including solar energy.
learn more about the environmentally friendly initiatives of the earth angel award automaker nominees.
“automakers are too often criticized for environmental insensitivity  when the reality is that they’re making enormous strides on a global  level to improve the earth’s environment,” said courtney caldwell,  icoty creator and producer.
additionally, automotive companies are  working to reduce the energy they consume by using greener power supplies  including solar energy.
factors considered for the award included established present and future environmental initiatives sponsored or supported by the automaker; current hybrid electric, diesel and flex-fuel vehicles available to the public; and the automaker’s position and mission on global warming.
the earth angel award was presented at the 12th annual icoty awards, which  was one of the many highlights at the night’s glitzy, black-tie affair  held at the all-new mgm grand detroit on the eve of press week of the 2008  north american international auto show (naias).
of those contacted bmw, daimler, ford motor company,  general motors, american honda, hyundai, subaru and toyota responded.
in response to the rising gas prices and growing concern for  global warming, the international car of the year awards (icoty) recently  polled automakers worldwide about the significant strides they were  making on environmental issues and green initiatives.
all automakers were invited to participate in the  inaugural award by answering a series of six questions related to their  environmental initiatives.
“our goal is to shed light on these many  positive accomplishments, especially those not known to the general public or  media.”
to celebrate this work, the icoty awards launched its inaugural earth angel award, which honored general motors corporation as the automaker who contributed the most to aiding environmental improvements and initiatives on a world wide level.
here a number of automakers are creating more fuel efficient vehicles, including  hybrids and ethanol (e85) versions.
the first earth angel award winner was selected by a jury of 12 respected   automotive journalists.
though the responses from individual automakers varied, the earth angel  award submissions show each company is making significant strides in the fight  against global warming.
winners production credits | media sponsors | press releases | media  coverage awards archive | past awards | what are the icoty  awards?
though the responses from individual automakers varied, the earth angel award submissions show each company is making significant strides in the fight against global warming.
“automakers are too often criticized for environmental insensitivity when the reality is that they’re making enormous strides on a global level to improve the earth’s environment,” said courtney caldwell, icoty creator and producer.
please visit rtm's auto & travel  eco-friendly sections 2008 icoty media  sponsors 2008 icoty sponsors | lifetime achievement award | vips jury  |earth angel award | heart string award | 2008
2008 icoty sponsors | lifetime achievement award | vips jury |earth angel award | heart string award | 2008 winners production credits | media sponsors | press releases | media coverage awards archive | past awards | what are the icoty awards?
contact us  | privacy policy  | advertise  | rtm press kit  | auto & travel  expert | site map | back issues | about us copyright ©2012 -  2015 : road & travel magazine.
senator carl levin (d-mi) and icoty producer, courtney caldwell (r) present the  inaugural earth angel award to beth lowery, vp environment, energy & safety  policy, general motors corporation.
inaugural earth angel award celebrates environmentally  friendly automakers
in response to the rising gas prices and growing concern for global warming, the international car of the year awards (icoty) recently polled automakers worldwide about the significant strides they were making on environmental issues and green initiatives.
learn more about the environmentally friendly initiatives of the earth  angel award automaker nominees.
all automakers were invited to participate in the inaugural award by answering a series of six questions related to their environmental initiatives.
the earth angel award was presented at the 12th annual icoty awards, which was one of the many highlights at the night’s glitzy, black-tie affair held at the all-new mgm grand detroit on the eve of press week of the 2008 north american international auto show (naias).
bridgestone sponsored the inaugural award.
factors considered for the award included established  present and future environmental initiatives sponsored or supported by the  automaker; current hybrid electric, diesel and flex-fuel vehicles available to  the public; and the automaker’s position and mission on global warming.