delmarva power has converted all of its truck fueling facilities to emission-reducing biodiesel fuel, which is a blend of 20 percent soybean oil and 80 percent ultra low-sulfur diesel.
“we think it’s important to lead by example.
our customers place great value on the environment, and so do we,” said gary stockbridge, president, delmarva power.
existing hybrids use both an electric motor and a standard gasoline or diesel engine.
our customers  place great value on the environment, and so do we,” said gary  stockbridge, president, delmarva power.
delmarva power has converted all of its truck fueling facilities to  emission-reducing biodiesel fuel, which is a blend of 20 percent soybean oil  and 80 percent ultra low-sulfur diesel.
company vehicles will be transformed over time as vehicles come up for replacement, initially replacing them with available hybrid and alternative-fuel vehicles, and later with even newer technology as it becomes commercially available.
while the cost of hybrid vehicles is greater than that of conventional vehicles, delmarva power knows there is great value for the environment by helping reduce carbon monoxide pollution.
about delmarva power
hybrid fleet investing in hybrid vehicles to curb carbon emissions at delmarva power, we’re investing in vehicles that are more  environmentally friendly, such as hybrid bucket trucks, to curb greenhouse gas  emissions and protect the environment.
existing hybrids use both an electric motor and a standard gasoline or  diesel engine.
search copyright © 2011 delmarva power.
company vehicles will be transformed over time as vehicles come up for  replacement, initially replacing them with available hybrid and  alternative-fuel vehicles, and later with even newer technology as it becomes  commercially available.
while the cost of hybrid vehicles is greater than that of  conventional vehicles, delmarva power knows there is great value for the  environment by helping reduce carbon monoxide pollution.
at delmarva power, we’re investing in vehicles that are more environmentally friendly, such as hybrid bucket trucks, to curb greenhouse gas emissions and protect the environment.