charge point app, ecar connect fitzgeralds open uk base shortsea 12 -
designed and hosted by: brian o'neill.
search fleet..... - home - awards - news - links - multimedia - subscribe - contact - club - classified - notices - plant and recovery latest posts next event there are no events at this time - al pacino is electric!
next event  there are no  events at this time wrightbus double deck hybrid makes a big impression in bath despite only entering service with first group in bath at the end of august  this year, the wrightbus gemini 2 hev (hybrid electric vehicle) double deck is  already making a big impression in the historic town.
initial operating data suggests that the vehicle is delivering fuel savings  in excess of 30% as compared to diesel buses operating on the same three park  & ride routes in and around the city of bath.
part of the modular  gemini 2 product family that is also available in diesel (dl) form, the hev  double deck is an exceptionally environmentally-friendly vehicle, powered by  just a 1.9 litre turbo diesel gm engine and a siemens elfa® hybrid  drivetrain.
introduced by first bristol, somerset and avon in bath as part of the european civitas renaissance initiative in partnership with bath & north east somerset council, the hybrid powered integral double deck bus developed by the wright group is the first vehicle of its type to enter service in the south west.
disclaimer: the views expressed in this publication are not necessarily those of the management.
part of the modular gemini 2 product family that is also available in diesel (dl) form, the hev double deck is an exceptionally environmentally-friendly vehicle, powered by just a 1.9 litre turbo diesel gm engine and a siemens elfa® hybrid drivetrain.
the early success of the specially branded hybrid bus in bath, two months into the six month trial in helping to improve air quality and further reduce emission levels, is sure to generate fresh renewed interest from other cities right across the uk.
this  not only meets the emissions requirements for city centres that have been set  out by the european civitas renaissance initiative, but also provides  passengers and driver alike with a smoother and quieter ride.
initial operating data suggests that the vehicle is delivering fuel savings in excess of 30% as compared to diesel buses operating on the same three park & ride routes in and around the city of bath.
the  early success of the specially branded hybrid bus in bath, two months into the  six month trial in helping to improve air quality and further reduce emission  levels, is sure to generate fresh renewed interest from other cities right  across the uk.
its 37kwh valence lithium ion batteries offer advanced energy  storage for power captured by the vehicle’s regenerative braking system,  a feature much in evidence thanks to hilly terrain in and around the famous  roman city.
leon daniels, firstgroup uk bus customer service & communication director said; “whilst london and one or two other big conurbations are implementing advanced hybrid bus technology, here is a case where air quality is being improved in an historic and environmentally-sensitive city and i’m delighted the people of bath are at the frontline of this cutting edge technology.”
every effort is made to check the accuracy of the information carried but no responsibility can be accepted for any inaccuracies that may occur.
mark nodder, wright group managing director commented; “to date, hybrid electric vehicle investment has been very london-centric, but two rounds of the green bus fund and innovative schemes such as the civitas renaissance project in bath are providing an important and much welcomed incentive to a technology which is becoming increasingly mature and, hopefully within a foreseeable timeframe, increasingly mainstream.”
reaction from passengers using the service has been equally favourable.
leon daniels, firstgroup uk bus customer service &  communication director said; “whilst london and one or two other big  conurbations are implementing advanced hybrid bus technology, here is a case  where air quality is being improved in an historic and  environmentally-sensitive city and i’m delighted the people of bath are  at the frontline of this cutting edge technology.”
readers are reminded that advertisements have been accepted in good faith, and jjds publications limited accepts no responsibility for any resulting transactions.
introduced by  first bristol, somerset and avon in bath as part of the european civitas  renaissance initiative in partnership with bath & north east somerset  council, the hybrid powered integral double deck bus developed by the wright  group is the first vehicle of its type to enter service in the south west.
with the huge capacity of the integrated battery system continually being recharged, once the bus reaches the town centre it can run almost entirely off battery power, meaning that the diesel engine is hardly being used and therefore fuel emissions are cut to an absolute minimum.
the european shortsea convention pets go free on irish ferries
but if any readers experience difficulties as a result of answering an advertisement, they are invited to write to the publishers.
this not only meets the emissions requirements for city centres that have been set out by the european civitas renaissance initiative, but also provides passengers and driver alike with a smoother and quieter ride.
drive to fitness drivers walkaround heavy goods vehicle checks view video volkswagen amarok pick-up on test irish truck of the year shortlist green commercial of the year shortlist fleet truck & bus forum fleet bus & coach awards shortlist news flash scania to supply engines to world leading construction equipment manufacturer read more...
with the huge capacity of the integrated battery system  continually being recharged, once the bus reaches the town centre it can run  almost entirely off battery power, meaning that the diesel engine is hardly  being used and therefore fuel emissions are cut to an absolute minimum.
its 37kwh valence lithium ion batteries offer advanced energy storage for power captured by the vehicle’s regenerative braking system, a feature much in evidence thanks to hilly terrain in and around the famous roman city.
- charge point app, ecar connect - fitzgeralds open uk base - shortsea 12 -
the european shortsea convention - pets go free on irish ferries wrightbus double deck hybrid makes
mark nodder,  wright group managing director commented; “to date, hybrid electric  vehicle investment has been very london-centric, but two rounds of the green  bus fund and innovative schemes such as the civitas renaissance project in bath  are providing an important and much welcomed incentive to a technology which is  becoming increasingly mature and, hopefully within a foreseeable timeframe,  increasingly mainstream.”
a big impression in bath despite only entering service with first group in bath at the end of august this year, the wrightbus gemini 2 hev (hybrid electric vehicle) double deck is already making a big impression in the historic town.
reaction from passengers  using the service has been equally favourable.