monday, august 8, 2011 state legislators see and hear about clean diesel’s contribution to greener transportation allen schaeffer, executive director of the diesel technology forum, addressed more than 100 state legislators on diesel’s contribution to cleaner transportation at the national conference of state legislatures’
at the may 13th event, rep. bartlett, the co-chairman of the house  renewable energy and energy efficiency caucus, opened with remarks about his  long standing commitment toward developing renewable energy sources for  america’s energy security.
with texas being the home of the largest number of diesel pickup trucks in the country, he added, “this could help boost our fuel economy numbers back home.”
marie, michigan to miami, fl on those fuels.
most importantly, these technologies will be available more  quickly and at less cost than others that require significant infrastructure  investments.
congressional briefing series: making transportation and goods movement leaner, cleaner &  greener using renewable fuels and advanced diesel technologies to reduce  petroleum consumption diesel engines have been the cornerstone of key sectors of the u.s. economy  – transportation, manufacturing, mining and farming – for over half  a century.
speakers included: anthony greszler, vice president, engineering, volvo  powertrain technologies for improving truck fuel efficiency & reducing co2 wayne eckerle, vice president, research & technology, cummins  inc. engine contribution toward reducing nation’s fuel consumption jack saum, sr., chairman of the board, beltway international, llc positive intentions can have unintended consequences jason mathers, project manager, environmental defense fund reducing petroleum use on the road and at the jobsite fueling the future in a green economy may 13, 2011 over the last several years, petroleum diesel fuel has become increasingly  cleaner as sulfur levels were reduced, similar to taking the lead out of  gasoline.
dtf will exhibit at their annual conference and  attend sessions to make valuable media contacts for telling the clean diesel  story.
all diesel  applications, but more is being done.
the three-part congressional luncheon series focusing on making u.s.  transportation and goods movement more fuel efficient and  environmentally-friendly was hosted by the diesel technology forum.
the presentation was given as part of a sponsored luncheon amidst a diverse display of clean diesel vehicles ranging from cars and pickup trucks to a motor grader and a diesel hybrid school bus.
higgins outlined the findings of a hart energy study  conducted for the diesel technology forum, noting that global demand for diesel  fuel would grow much faster than demand for gasoline and that refiners were  accounting for this growth in their expansion plans.
diesel john deere 8260r row-crop tractor thomas built buses saf-t-liner c2e diesel-electric hybrid school bus national association of counties (naco) annual conference and exposition july 15-19, 2011 portland, oregon the diesel technology forum is a founding member of naco's green government initiative and will be exhibiting at naco's 2011 annual conference and exposition.
he noted that  there was no one silver bullet, but rather several silver technology pellets  that would all contribute to the realization of a greener transportation  future; however the lack of available alternatives, particularly in the  construction, locomotive and marine sectors, would mean that clean diesel  technology would be part of our transportation system for the foreseeable  future.
this display complemented the john deere row crop tractor which many  legislators had already enjoyed climbing into at dtf’s exhibit hall booth.
2011 energy policy summit in san antonio.
they learned about each vehicles’ fuel economy and emissions benefits,  with many using their newfound knowledge to answer a quiz for the possibility  of winning a $100 fuel card.
although today’s diesel engines still run primarily on diesel fuel,  these needs are being reduced through engine and vehicle enhancements,  application of hybrid technologies and greater use of renewable diesel  fuels.
on friday, july 8, three vehicle and fuel specialists shared their insight into the growing interest in diesel vehicles and the petroleum saving benefits that can be gained at both a personal and national level through greater penetration of diesel vehicles in the american marketplace.
more than 3.000 attendees were on hand to see the  vehicles and learn about the changes in diesel technology.
like johnson, he highlighted the improved quality of biodiesel fuels today, noting that testing had generally shown little or no impact on fuel economy, catalyst durability and nox emissions when used as a b20 blend.
the company’s renewable diesel has been approved by epa for 35 percent blends.
with texas being the home of the largest number of diesel pickup trucks in the  country, he added, “this could help boost our fuel economy numbers back  home.”
amyris’ emergence in renewable fuels came about in 2005 as they worked to develop a lower cost, consistent supply of artemisinin, a key malaria drug component.
stuart johnson, manager of volkswagen’s engineering and environmental  office, echoed many of freitag’s comments, noting that the take rate on  vw’s diesel golf and the audi a3 were approximately 50 percent with the  jetta tdi sportswagen reaching  80 percent.
mccormick  explained that the rfs2 had created a market for renewable diesel fuels, many  of which were at varying stages of development.
according to alex freitag, director of diesel systems engineering from robert bosch corporation, this “take rate” for diesel vehicles is due in large part to clean diesel’s total cost of ownership advantage (accounting for fuel costs, greater efficiency and higher resale value), essentially paying for itself within 18 months of purchase.
diesel john deere 8260r row-crop tractor thomas built buses saf-t-liner c2e diesel-electric hybrid school bus national association of counties (naco) annual conference and  exposition july 15-19, 2011 portland, oregon the diesel technology forum is a founding member of naco's green  government initiative and will be exhibiting at naco's 2011 annual  conference and exposition.
johnson was confident that greater volumes of renewable fuels would be used in the coming years which would help reduce the demand for imported petroleum.
legislators, legislatives staff and their guests were treated to a variety  of clean diesel technology including a thomas built buses diesel-electric  hybrid school bus; a caterpillar motor grader; a peterbilt truck with a cummins  2010 isx15 engine; a deere gator 4x4 diesel;  a volkswagen jetta tdi and  the newest heavy-duty diesel pickup trucks from ford, gm and chrysler.
terrence higgins of hart energy consulting gave a detailed presentation  entitled “clean diesel fuel: demand, prices, availability and  advantages”.
finally bob mccormick, principle engineer for fuels performance at the national renewable energy laboratory talked about doe’s non-petroleum based fuels program which includes work on the performance of b20 and hydrocarbon renewable diesel fuels in today’s vehicles.
complementing these economic benefits are clean diesel’s extremely low emissions, including approximately 20 percent fewer greenhouse gas emissions than gasoline counterparts due to the vehicle’s greater efficiency.
to accomplish this, several clean cities coalitions are installing enough  e85 and b20 pumps to allow travel from sault ste.
the  company’s renewable diesel has been approved by epa for 35 percent blends.
freitag highlighted this point with an eia study done in 2009 which asserted that a clean diesel vehicle using b20 could have fewer ghg emissions than a typical plug in hybrid.
he added that  the growing use of hybrid technologies and renewable diesel fuels in concert  with diesel engines would enable significant savings in petroleum consumption  and co2 emissions.
underpinning diesel’s advantages is its inherent superior energy density compared to other fuels such as gasoline, natural gas and renewable fuels.
industry is working with doe’s supertruck program to increase heavy-duty vehicle efficiency through improved aerodynamics and a suite of engine technology improvements.
charise stephens, the executive director of the middle georgia clean cities coalition, spoke about the “i 75 green corridor project” which has the goal of establishing i?75 as the nation’s longest biofuels corridor.
diesel retrofit tool kit > retrofit projects mapping © copyright diesel technology forum contact us | privacy policy | terms of use
according to alex freitag, director of diesel systems  engineering from robert bosch corporation, this “take rate” for  diesel vehicles is due in large part to clean diesel’s total cost of  ownership advantage (accounting for fuel costs, greater efficiency and higher  resale value), essentially paying for itself within 18 months of purchase.
the presentation was given as part of  a sponsored luncheon amidst a diverse display of clean diesel vehicles ranging  from cars and pickup trucks to a motor grader and a diesel hybrid school bus.
so far, stephens said four stations were completed in lexington, atlanta, gainesville and miami.
hot issues > news by category > resources > case studies/pdfs > clean diesel vehicles currently available in the u.s. > publications > state fact sheets > videos > webinars > why retrofit? >
joel velasco, senior vice president for amyris – the forum’s  newest member – discussed amyris’ role as an integrated renewable  products company focused on providing sustainable alternatives to a broad range  of petroleum-based products.
complementing these economic benefits are clean diesel’s extremely low  emissions, including approximately 20 percent fewer greenhouse gas emissions  than gasoline counterparts due to the vehicle’s greater efficiency.
diesel technology has continuously improved, virtually eliminating emissions from today’s heavy-duty diesel trucks.
fuel locator > performance > port & marine > power generation > public health & safety > public transportation > clean diesel technology & sustainability >
dtf will exhibit at their annual conference and attend sessions to make valuable media contacts for telling the clean diesel story.
on friday, july 8,  three vehicle and fuel specialists shared their insight into the growing  interest in diesel vehicles and the petroleum saving benefits that can be  gained at both a personal and national level through greater penetration of  diesel vehicles in the american marketplace.
higgins outlined the findings of a hart energy study conducted for the diesel technology forum, noting that global demand for diesel fuel would grow much faster than demand for gasoline and that refiners were accounting for this growth in their expansion plans.
the  luncheon series will closely examine how commercial availability of renewable  diesel fuel and further fuel economy enhancements such as those currently  underway in the u.s. department of energy’s vehicle technologies program
diesel locomotives > farming, mining & construction >
rep. bartlett and staff member lisa wright are working closely with the  forum in developing the briefing series and informing other congressional  members and staff about the events.
finally bob mccormick, principle engineer for fuels performance at the  national renewable energy laboratory talked about doe’s non-petroleum  based fuels program which includes work on the performance of b20 and  hydrocarbon renewable diesel fuels in today’s vehicles.
view photos from the congressional briefing series: driving home the point: reducing consumer petroleum use with  diesel vehicles july 8, 2011 as fuel prices remain high and individuals look for greater value for their  dollar, consumers are increasingly looking at clean diesel cars as being both  an economically and environmentally smart choice.
the three-part congressional luncheon series focusing on making u.s. transportation and goods movement more fuel efficient and environmentally-friendly was hosted by the diesel technology forum.
diesel; a volkswagen jetta tdi and the newest heavy-duty diesel pickup trucks from ford, gm and chrysler.
volkswagen recently opened a new manufacturing plant in chattanooga, tn which  will help the company meet anticipated strong demand for the its new clean  diesel passat.
they learned about each vehicles’ fuel economy and emissions benefits, with many using their newfound knowledge to answer a quiz for the possibility of winning a $100 fuel card.
it is also becoming more expensive, making the switch to renewable  fuels one which will provide both environmental and economic benefits.
laramie with 6.7l cummins® turbo diesel 2011
although one legislator confessed, “i’d rather win that pretty new 2011 gmc sierra truck.”
achieving california's low-carbon future with existing vehicle technologies: a look at renewable fuels and clean diesel vehicles october 28, 2011 washington, dc - rayburn hob join the diesel technology forum and the california federal policy institute for a look at california's vehicle and fuel strategies and the importance of existing vehicle technologies such as clean diesel for achieving these standards in light of challenges to the widespread adoption of electric vehicles.
four speakers explained how r&d investments are bringing more efficient technologies to market for use in truck fleets.
most importantly, these technologies will be available more quickly and at less cost than others that require significant infrastructure investments.
despite the tremendous attention focused on hybrid electric vehicles, internal combustion engines will still dominate the market for many years, accounting for 80 percent of global passenger vehicles in 2020 compared to just nine percent for electric hybrids.
achieving california's low-carbon future with existing vehicle  technologies: a look at renewable fuels and clean diesel vehicles october 28, 2011 washington, dc - rayburn hob join the diesel technology forum and the california federal policy  institute for a look at california's vehicle and fuel strategies and the  importance of existing vehicle technologies such as clean diesel for achieving  these standards in light of challenges to the widespread adoption of electric  vehicles.
so far, stephens said four stations were completed in  lexington, atlanta, gainesville and miami.
speakers included: allen schaeffer, diesel technology forum using renewable fuels and advanced diesel technologies to reduce petroleum  consumption terrence higgins, executive director, refining & special  studies, hart energy consulting clean diesel fuel: demand, prices, availability and advantages charise stephens, executive director, middle georgia clean cities  coalition i-75 green corridor project – helping america diversify its fuels joel velasco, senior vice president, amyris renewable diesel:  fueling the future in a green economy about clean diesel
joel velasco, senior vice president for amyris – the forum’s newest member – discussed amyris’ role as an integrated renewable products company focused on providing sustainable alternatives to a broad range of petroleum-based products.
congressional briefing series: making transportation and goods movement leaner, cleaner & greener using renewable fuels and advanced diesel technologies to reduce petroleum consumption diesel engines have been the cornerstone of key sectors of the u.s. economy – transportation, manufacturing, mining and farming – for over half a century.
with a new ram 3500 laramie pickup truck beside him, schaeffer showed how the purchase of heavy-duty diesel pickup trucks sold from 2003-2007 would save 37 times more co2 emissions and 25 times more fuel than would be saved by the number of prius purchases during these same four years.
traditional “fame” biodiesel, which is classified as an advanced biofuel due to its 50 percent lower ghg emissions than petroleum fuel, had record production in may of this year and was on track to provide the mandated volume of 1 billion gallons in 2012.
today one in every 20 consumers choose a hybrid vehicle if the technology is available for their selected model, however recent trends show that six out of every 20 choose a diesel option if it is available.
charise stephens, the executive director of the middle georgia clean cities  coalition, spoke about the “i 75 green corridor project” which has  the goal of establishing i?75 as the nation’s longest biofuels corridor.
speakers included: international energy agency (iea) world energy outlook 2008 and 2010:  world oil production alexander freitag, director of diesel systems engineering, robert  bosch corporation the rise of today’s clean diesel vehicles: performance, benefits and  market growth robert mccormick, principal engineer, fuels performance, national  renewable energy laboratory performance of renewable diesel fuels stuart johnson, manager, engineering and environmental office,  volkswagen group of america, inc. clean diesel technology and diesel fuel overview consequences reducing petroleum use on the road and at the jobsite june 17, 2011 today’s heavy-duty trucks are 98 percent cleaner than those made 10  years ago and this same technology is being phased in across
he concluded diesel would play a significant role in the emergence of the green energy economy because of diesel fuel’s unique attributes – its energy density, low-sulfur content, widespread availability and compatibility with biofuels.
diesel technology forum executive director allen schaeffer, moderated the briefing and also gave a presentation about clean diesel technology, the significant reduction in emissions it provides, and diesel’s role in a sustainable energy future through greater use of diesel hybrid and renewable diesel technology.
more than 3.000 attendees were on hand to see the vehicles and learn about the changes in diesel technology.
about clean diesel > powering the u.s. economy >
diesel powers the u.s. economy the diesel technology  forum released a new economic study, "diesel powers the u.s. economy:
the summit will also showcase industry  successes and best practices under the program.
with a new ram 3500 laramie pickup truck beside him, schaeffer showed how  the purchase of heavy-duty diesel pickup trucks sold from 2003-2007 would save  37 times more co2 emissions and 25 times more fuel than would be saved by the  number of prius purchases during these same four years.
view photos from the congressional briefing series: driving home the point: reducing consumer petroleum use with diesel vehicles july 8, 2011 as fuel prices remain high and individuals look for greater value for their dollar, consumers are increasingly looking at clean diesel cars as being both an economically and environmentally smart choice.
diesel powers the u.s. economy the diesel technology forum released a new economic study, "diesel powers the u.s. economy:
he also stressed the importance of  educating congress and the american public about the need for a comprehensive  energy program.
technology at ncsl included: 2011 ford f-250
amyris’ emergence in renewable fuels came  about in 2005 as they worked to develop a lower cost, consistent supply of  artemisinin, a key malaria drug component.
high fuel economy gains are driving demand for diesel hybrid buses,  making them the technology of choice for many of the country’s top  transit districts.
several attendees took advantage of the rare opportunity to sit in the  roomy new peterbilt class 8 tractor or the snazzy little 4x4 diesel gator.
fueling the future in a green economy >
to view the full report go www.dieselforum.org/economicreport.
johnson was confident that greater volumes of renewable  fuels would be used in the coming years which would help reduce the demand for  imported petroleum.
this  briefing looked at diesel fuel demand and prices, the growing use of biodiesel  along the i-75 corridor running from michigan to florida, and the development  of next generation, commercially available, drop-in renewable diesel fuel.
due to this strong  demand for its diesel vehicles and their superior environmental performance, vw  sees clean diesel as a key factor in its strategy for meeting tighter fuel  economy standards and other anticipated environmental standards.
the luncheon series will closely examine how commercial availability of renewable diesel fuel and further fuel economy enhancements such as those currently underway in the u.s. department of energy’s vehicle technologies program make diesel technology a smart, high-value, low-cost investment for reducing america’s dependence on petroleum.
an alternative fuel option > meet the leaders > press room > press releases by month > clean diesel in the news >
glossary > share your voice on diesel > about the forum > join the forum > diesel kids > diesel links > contact us > events > cars,trucks & suvs > delivering for america >
using a similar formula based  on biomass sugars, amyris developed hydro-carbon petroleum replacements.
he noted that there was no one silver bullet, but rather several silver technology pellets that would all contribute to the realization of a greener transportation future; however the lack of available alternatives, particularly in the construction, locomotive and marine sectors, would mean that clean diesel technology would be part of our transportation system for the foreseeable future.
even many work trucks found in communities across the  country are integrating hybrid technologies to reduce fuel consumption.
using a similar formula based on biomass sugars, amyris developed hydro-carbon petroleum replacements.
due to this strong demand for its diesel vehicles and their superior environmental performance, vw sees clean diesel as a key factor in its strategy for meeting tighter fuel economy standards and other anticipated environmental standards.
even many work trucks found in communities across the country are integrating hybrid technologies to reduce fuel consumption.
diesel technology forum executive director allen schaeffer, moderated the  briefing and also gave a presentation about clean diesel technology, the  significant reduction in emissions it provides, and diesel’s role in a  sustainable energy future through greater use of  diesel hybrid and  renewable diesel technology.
stuart johnson, manager of volkswagen’s engineering and environmental office, echoed many of freitag’s comments, noting that the take rate on vw’s diesel golf and the audi a3 were approximately 50 percent with the jetta tdi sportswagen reaching 80 percent.
although today’s diesel engines still run primarily on diesel fuel, these needs are being reduced through engine and vehicle enhancements, application of hybrid technologies and greater use of renewable diesel fuels.
traditional  “fame” biodiesel, which is classified as an advanced biofuel due to  its 50 percent lower ghg emissions than petroleum fuel, had record production  in may of this year and was on track to provide the mandated volume of 1  billion gallons in 2012.
rsvp to dtf@dieselforum.org epa freight sustainability summit november 17-18, 2011 washington, dc the 2011 freight sustainability summit (formerly smartway summit) will highlight how the epa’s smartway transport program and its partners support key national interests, such as contributing to the efficiency and sustainability of u.s. businesses so they can continue to generate jobs and grow the economy, strengthening our energy security by cutting down on fuel use and protecting the environment.
he noted that vw currently warranties its vehicles to use b5 biodiesel blends, but that the trend for growing use of higher blends would continue as fuel quality continues to improve and manufacturers address concerns related to the highly sensitive and sophisticated technologies being used on today’s clean diesel vehicles.
this three-part luncheon series discussed how commercial availability of renewable diesel fuel and further fuel economy enhancements such as those currently underway in doe’s vehicle technologies program make diesel technology a smart, high-value, low-cost investment for reducing america’s dependence on petroleum.
schaeffer noted that this, together with diesel’s low emissions, durability, efficiency and availability, meant that clean diesel would play a strong role in establishing a sustainable energy future.
speakers included: anthony greszler, vice president, engineering, volvo powertrain technologies for improving truck fuel efficiency & reducing co2 wayne eckerle, vice president, research & technology, cummins inc. engine contribution toward reducing nation’s fuel consumption jack saum, sr., chairman of the board, beltway international, llc positive intentions can have unintended consequences jason mathers, project manager, environmental defense fund reducing petroleum use on the road and at the jobsite fueling the future in a green economy may 13, 2011 over the last several years, petroleum diesel fuel has become increasingly cleaner as sulfur levels were reduced, similar to taking the lead out of gasoline.
this briefing looked at diesel fuel demand and prices, the growing use of biodiesel along the i-75 corridor running from michigan to florida, and the development of next generation, commercially available, drop-in renewable diesel fuel.
contribution to greener transportation allen schaeffer, executive director of the diesel technology forum,  addressed more than 100 state legislators on diesel’s contribution to  cleaner transportation at the national conference of state legislatures’  2011 energy policy summit in san antonio.
to accomplish this, several clean cities coalitions are installing enough e85 and b20 pumps to allow travel from sault ste.
rsvp to dtf@dieselforum.org november 17-18, 2011 washington,  dc the 2011 freight sustainability summit (formerly smartway summit) will  highlight how the epa’s smartway transport program and its partners  support key national interests, such as contributing to the efficiency and  sustainability of u.s. businesses so they can continue to generate jobs and  grow the economy, strengthening our energy security by cutting down on fuel use  and protecting the environment.
mccormick explained that the rfs2 had created a market for renewable diesel fuels, many of which were at varying stages of development.
although one legislator confessed,  “i’d rather win that pretty new 2011 gmc sierra truck.”
despite the tremendous attention focused on hybrid electric vehicles,  internal combustion engines will still dominate the market for many years,  accounting for 80 percent of global passenger vehicles in 2020 compared to just  nine percent for electric hybrids.
to view the full report go www.dieselforum.org/economicreport.
speakers included: allen schaeffer, diesel technology forum using renewable fuels and advanced diesel technologies to reduce petroleum consumption terrence higgins, executive director, refining & special studies, hart energy consulting clean diesel fuel: demand, prices, availability and advantages charise stephens, executive director, middle georgia clean cities coalition i-75 green corridor project – helping america diversify its fuels joel velasco, senior vice president, amyris renewable diesel:
he added that the growing use of hybrid technologies and renewable diesel fuels in concert with diesel engines would enable significant savings in petroleum consumption and co2 emissions.
he also stressed the importance of educating congress and the american public about the need for a comprehensive energy program.
read the dtf press release.
this three-part luncheon series discussed how commercial availability of  renewable diesel fuel and further fuel economy enhancements such as those  currently underway in doe’s vehicle technologies program make diesel  technology a smart, high-value, low-cost investment for reducing  america’s dependence on petroleum.
terrence higgins of hart energy consulting gave a detailed presentation entitled “clean diesel fuel: demand, prices, availability and advantages”.
she also highlighted the importance of biodiesel in reducing emissions and dependence on foreign oil.
he concluded diesel  would play a significant role in the emergence of the green energy economy  because of diesel fuel’s unique attributes – its energy density,  low-sulfur content, widespread availability and compatibility with biofuels.
diesel technology has continuously improved, virtually  eliminating emissions from today’s heavy-duty diesel trucks.
conserving precious resources >
allen schaeffer’s presentation – making  transportation and goods movement leaner, cleaner & greener wednesday, august 10 clean diesel delivers lunch to state legislators the diesel technology forum hosted a texas barbecue lunch for state  legislators in the shadow of several clean diesel vehicles during the national  conference of state legislatures’ annual legislative summit in san  antonio, tx .
providing high-paying jobs, exports and long-term productivity gains in the nation's fundamental sectors", authored by aspen environmental group and m. cubed which quantifies the diesel industry's current contribution to the economy and its evolution as a sustainable, green, high value added industry.
a near-capacity room of congressional staff members, industry and energy  representatives gathered on capitol hill to hear a diverse group of speakers  – including u.s. rep. roscoe bartlett – discuss clean diesel  technology and renewable diesel’s role in “fueling the future in a  green economy.”
volkswagen jetta tdi cat® 140m2 motor grader cummins 2010 isx15 clean diesel engine/peterbuilt truck john deere 8260r row-crop tractor deere gator xuv 855d 4x4
she also highlighted the  importance of biodiesel in reducing emissions and dependence on foreign oil.
national conference of state legislatures (ncsl) legislative summit - august 8-11, 2011 diesel technology forum hosted energy policy summit keynote  luncheon for national conference of state legislatures - august 8th in san  antonio.
providing high-paying jobs, exports and long-term productivity gains in the  nation's fundamental sectors", authored by aspen environmental group and  m. cubed which quantifies the diesel industry's current contribution to the  economy and its evolution as a sustainable, green, high value added industry.
allen schaeffer’s presentation – making transportation and goods movement leaner, cleaner & greener wednesday, august 10 clean diesel delivers lunch to state legislators the diesel technology forum hosted a texas barbecue lunch for state legislators in the shadow of several clean diesel vehicles during the national conference of state legislatures’ annual legislative summit in san antonio, tx .
schaeffer noted that this, together with diesel’s low emissions,  durability, efficiency and availability, meant that clean diesel would play a  strong role in establishing a sustainable energy future.
technology at ncsl included: 2011 gmc sierra 2500 hd 2011 ram 3500
this display complemented the john deere row crop tractor which many legislators had already enjoyed climbing into at dtf’s exhibit hall booth.
at the may 13th event, rep. bartlett, the co-chairman of the house renewable energy and energy efficiency caucus, opened with remarks about his long standing commitment toward developing renewable energy sources for america’s energy security.
legislators, legislatives staff and their guests were treated to a variety of clean diesel technology including a thomas built buses diesel-electric hybrid school bus; a caterpillar motor grader; a peterbilt truck with a cummins 2010 isx15 engine; a deere gator 4x4
monday, august 8, 2011 state legislators see and hear about clean diesel’s
the summit will also showcase industry successes and best practices under the program.
he noted that vw currently warranties its vehicles to  use b5 biodiesel blends, but that the trend for growing use of higher blends  would continue as fuel quality continues to improve and manufacturers address  concerns related to the highly sensitive and sophisticated technologies being  used on today’s clean diesel vehicles.
society of environmental journalists (sej) annual conference october 20-22, 2011 miami, fl sej is the world's oldest and largest educational membership association of  professional journalists dedicated to more and better coverage of  environment-related issues.
society of environmental journalists (sej) annual conference october 20-22, 2011 miami, fl sej is the world's oldest and largest educational membership association of professional journalists dedicated to more and better coverage of environment-related issues.
four speakers explained how  r&d investments are bringing more  efficient technologies to market for use in truck fleets.
xl 2011 gmc sierra 2500 hd 2011 ram 3500
it is also becoming more expensive, making the switch to renewable fuels one which will provide both environmental and economic benefits.
national conference of state legislatures (ncsl) legislative summit - august 8-11, 2011 diesel technology forum hosted energy policy summit keynote luncheon for national conference of state legislatures - august 8th in san antonio.
several attendees took advantage of the rare opportunity to sit in the roomy new peterbilt class 8 tractor or the snazzy little 4x4 diesel gator.
freitag highlighted this point with an eia study done in 2009 which asserted  that a clean diesel vehicle using b20 could have fewer ghg emissions than a  typical plug in hybrid.
volkswagen jetta tdi cummins 2010 isx15 clean diesel engine/peterbuilt truck john deere 8260r row-crop tractor deere gator xuv 855d 4x4
as for next generation renewable diesel fuel, mccormick noted that there was already commercial production of this fuel from poultry fat in the u.s (70 million gallons/yr) and that these fuels, which are hydrocarbons meeting the same astm standard as petroleum diesel, were being developed from a variety of feedstocks and had shown exceptional fuel properties.
a near-capacity room of congressional staff members, industry and energy representatives gathered on capitol hill to hear a diverse group of speakers – including u.s. rep. roscoe bartlett – discuss clean diesel technology and renewable diesel’s role in “fueling the future in a green economy.”
marie, michigan to miami, fl  on those fuels.
like johnson, he highlighted the improved quality of  biodiesel fuels today, noting that testing had generally shown little or no  impact on fuel economy, catalyst durability and nox emissions when used as a  b20 blend.
speakers included: congressman roscoe bartlett (r-md) international energy agency (iea) world energy outlook 2008 and 2010: world oil production alexander freitag, director of diesel systems engineering, robert bosch corporation the rise of today’s clean diesel vehicles: performance, benefits and market growth robert mccormick, principal engineer, fuels performance, national renewable energy laboratory performance of renewable diesel fuels stuart johnson, manager, engineering and environmental office, volkswagen group of america, inc. clean diesel technology and diesel fuel overview consequences reducing petroleum use on the road and at the jobsite june 17, 2011 today’s heavy-duty trucks are 98 percent cleaner than those made 10 years ago and this same technology is being phased in across all diesel applications, but more is being done.
volkswagen recently opened a new manufacturing plant in chattanooga, tn which will help the company meet anticipated strong demand for the its new clean diesel passat.
rep. bartlett and staff member lisa wright are working closely with the forum in developing the briefing series and informing other congressional members and staff about the events.
make diesel technology a smart, high-value, low-cost investment for reducing  america’s dependence on petroleum.
underpinning diesel’s advantages is its inherent superior energy  density compared to other fuels such as gasoline, natural gas and renewable  fuels.
today one in every 20 consumers choose  a hybrid vehicle if the technology is available for their selected model,  however recent trends show that six out of every 20 choose a diesel option if  it is available.
high fuel economy gains are driving demand for diesel hybrid buses, making them the technology of choice for many of the country’s top transit districts.
as for next generation renewable diesel fuel, mccormick noted  that there was already commercial production of this fuel from poultry fat in  the u.s (70 million gallons/yr) and that these fuels, which are hydrocarbons  meeting the same astm standard as petroleum diesel, were being developed from a  variety of feedstocks and had shown exceptional fuel properties.
industry is working with  doe’s supertruck program to increase heavy-duty vehicle efficiency  through improved aerodynamics and a suite of engine technology improvements.