atlantic city electric also plans to convert all of its truck fueling facilities to emission-reducing biodiesel fuel, which is a blend of 20 percent soybean oil and 80 percent low-sulfur diesel.
“we think it’s important to lead by example.
about atlantic city electric
our customers  place great value on the environment, and so do we,” said ken parker,  president, atlantic city electric.
hybrid fleet investing in hybrid vehicles to curb carbon emissions our customers would be pleased to know that we’re investing in  vehicles that are more environmentally friendly, such as hybrid bucket trucks,  to curb greenhouse gas emissions and protect the environment.
our customers place great value on the environment, and so do we,” said ken parker, president, atlantic city electric.
existing hybrids use both an electric motor and a standard gasoline or diesel engine.
while the cost of hybrid vehicles is greater than that of conventional vehicles, atlantic city electric knows there is great value for the environment by helping reduce carbon monoxide pollution.
company vehicles will be transformed over time as vehicles come up for replacement, initially replacing them with available hybrid and alternative-fuel vehicles, and later with even newer technology as it becomes commercially available.
search copyright © 2011 atlantic city electric.
atlantic city electric also plans to convert all of its truck fueling  facilities to emission-reducing biodiesel fuel, which is a blend of 20 percent  soybean oil and 80 percent low-sulfur diesel.
existing hybrids use both an electric motor and a standard gasoline or  diesel engine.
our customers would be pleased to know that we’re investing in vehicles that are more environmentally friendly, such as hybrid bucket trucks, to curb greenhouse gas emissions and protect the environment.
company vehicles will be transformed over time as vehicles come up for  replacement, initially replacing them with available hybrid and  alternative-fuel vehicles, and later with even newer technology as it becomes  commercially available.
while the cost of hybrid vehicles is greater than that of conventional  vehicles, atlantic city electric knows there is great value for the environment  by helping reduce carbon monoxide pollution.