even to the point of, for example, waste management authorities being encouraged to invest in more advanced technical solutions, rather than - as currently - be pressured to accept the lowest price for new vehicles, or when awarding an operational contract?
the danish  government believes such targeted investment is vital if energy consumption is  to be reduced and our economy is to grow in a future of increasing energy  costs," he adds.
the example set by denmark explodes that myth - environmental technologies look set to create over 10,000 new jobs in the next five years.
and as it  involves forces outside of 'waste management', let's put that to one side.
banke sees things rather differently.
seoul recovers energy from 730,000 tonnes of waste (mar 20, 2012) 1000  tonnes of solar panels collected for recycling in 3 months (mar 19, 2012) anti 'bottle bill' pressure group grows in massachusetts (mar 19, 2012)
and if you think denmark has a pretty positive record on recycling ratios  and minimising landfill - as it has - then that's as nothing compared to the  impressive record the county has on energy conservation.
save energy - boost economic growth what difference can individual governments make to a global problem?
most observers would accept that the constant rise and fall of engine revs,  as hydraulic binlifters are used, is what makes night time waste collection  operations in residential areas unacceptable.
but because we don't tend to think of denmark as a major industrial  producer of manufactured goods, it's interesting to note that the danish  government uses its remit to help encourage new, achievable ways of creating  new technologies to help boost an already impressive record on creating what we  might term an environmental industry sector.
in fact, my hair is wilder than his.
'green energy' exports totalled over 50 billion danish  krona ($8.5 billion) in 2011.
the most publicised gain is in a reduction of co2 (typically 15 tonnes per  vehicle per year) and a reduction in diesel fuel consumption of 5000 litres per  vehicle per year - both significant figures.
thanks to previous long-term government policies and investment, denmark uses no more energy today than it did in 1980, while also achieving an impressive reduction in co2 emissions well above the european average.
there is some nervousness amongst some rcv manufacturers because as we  discovered in the previous issue of waste management world, if more operators  purchased large numbers of quieter diesel electric hybrid rcvs and double  shifted them with two crews during each 24 hour period, which helps recoup the  added purchase cost for obvious reasons, this might result in fewer number of  vehicles being needed in total.
research shows battery pack life of more than 2500 cycles using lifepo4  battery technology.
but i'd suggest the other key gain - a considerable reduction in operational noise - has not been promoted as widely as it could have been.
so passionate in fact, he gave up a  top job with danfoss a/s in order to found banke accessory drives.
in contrast, a 'plug-in' battery powered auxiliary drive enables the truck's engine to be switched off while loading and packing, or stay at a constant tick-over.
" could a hybrid option help win contracts?
"designing and building systems using the latest battery technology is  a very specialised business and we should ask why each manufacturer needs an  in-house solution?
the future role denmark should play (as a small nation with a big reputation for turning visionary ideas into workable government policies) and the ways in which business might be done in the future, in a resource starved world.
malcolm bates reports from copenhagen on a small danish manufacturer of a 'plug-in' hybrid drive bin lift and compaction system, and how it's benefiting from a whole new way of doing business - the lean energy cluster.
banke and soren jessing are adamant  that a 40 kwh (effective)/700 volt battery pack is essential for this  application, as opposed to using a 96 volt option.
and if you think denmark has a pretty positive record on recycling ratios and minimising landfill - as it has - then that's as nothing compared to the impressive record the county has on energy conservation.
it also has the support of manfred zoeller, ceo of leading german manufacturer zoeller waste systems and meldgaard, one of denmark's leading commercial waste contractors.
another interesting thing about the lean energy cluster approach is that it lends itself to new partners being added, together with local assembly within the growing economies - thus creating new jobs and saving energy in waste collection and recycling on a global basis.
it's adaptable without a major increase in tooling costs - so will benefit from an economy of scale.
the example set by denmark explodes that myth - environmental technologies look  set to create over 10,000 new jobs in the next five years.
"we were very interested in the model adopted by the commune in the city of solna in sweden (as reported in waste management world november/december 2011).
this is where 'the lean  energy cluster' comes in.
firstly, after a background in energy  systems, he is convinced that the electrical power take-off (pto) is more  efficient than the traditional hydraulic pto.
in other branches of industry such as building construction,  shipping, industrial processes and power generation for example, there are  large specialists such as danfoss that research, design and build systems for  incorporation into wider projects.
research shows battery pack life of more than 2500 cycles using lifepo4 battery technology.
forget one company needing to 'be in charge', or owning all the other players, a cluster is lots of smaller specialists coming together on a specific project and co-operating together as equals.
over that same period, economic  growth has increased four-fold.
in fact, designing and building high tech environmental solutions is now very much the 'industry' denmark would like to be known for internationally.
it will hopefully mean that the concept of more efficient, environmentally friendly refuse collection vehicles is no longer a dream, unique to one brand, or another.
the  future role denmark should play (as a small nation with a big reputation for  turning visionary ideas into workable government policies) and the ways in  which business might be done in the future, in a resource starved world.
located by just eight bolts, the same basic 'module' can be designed to  fit any chassis/body combination adding environmental 'house points' to the contract bidder prepared to  invest in more expensive, environmentally friendly vehicles (as opposed to just  the cheapest) is supported by the danish government and regional governments  such as region syddanmark - another active supporter of the lean energy  cluster.
"but when it  comes to more specific policies like reducing energy consumption by the country  as a whole, and by organisations and individuals in particular, the danish  government strongly believes all government departments, regional and local  city councils and communes, should be leading by example," the minister  confirmed to waste management world.
the banke system uses a 400 volt pm (permanent magnet) motor with variable rpm control - which is 60% lighter than some competitive designs.
privacy policy | terms & conditions | about us | site map copyright © 2011:
the long-sighted policies of denmark should serve as an example to us all - and shame those larger national governments that claim the imposition of strict new environmental policies will damage growth and cause increased unemployment.
waste management world content categories: collection & transfer    waste-to-energy
over that same period, economic growth has increased four-fold.
"and we are already talking to several communes (councils) with which we have contracts on that basis."
the lean energy cluster has direct support from the danish government, the local regional councils and the leading technical university of southern denmark.
and unlike many other democracies, all the political parties in denmark support this high investment approach.
this is where 'the lean energy cluster' comes in.
already, the  company is working with ten or more 'partners' on this first project.
"designing and building systems using the latest battery technology is a very specialised business and we should ask why each manufacturer needs an in-house solution?
the long-sighted policies of denmark should serve as an example to us all -  and shame those larger national governments that claim the imposition of strict  new environmental policies will damage growth and cause increased unemployment.
as i'm sure you'll  agree, that's a pretty demanding agenda for a single meeting - so let's get  down to analysing the key elements....
the banke system uses a 400 volt pm (permanent magnet)  motor with variable rpm control - which is 60% lighter than some competitive  designs.
"and we are already talking to several communes (councils) with which we  have contracts on that basis."
so what does all this mean?
" we'll soon find out if he's right - with a fleet of over 150 'conventional' diesel/hydraulic pto-powered refuse collection and recycling trucks, meldgaard is keen to convert to hybrids as soon as possible.
this small, but incredibly honest democratic european state has an enviable record on sustainability, on implementing visionary environmental policies and being prepared to invest - by which i mean 'spend' citizens' tax money - to a far greater degree than just about any other country on earth.
in fact, my  hair is wilder than his.
'green energy' exports totalled over 50 billion danish krona ($8.5 billion) in 2011.
firstly, after a background in energy systems, he is convinced that the electrical power take-off (pto) is more efficient than the traditional hydraulic pto.
partly because danes think it's the right thing to do, but also  as martin lidegaard, the danish minister for energy explained, because  investing in long-term solutions really can pay a good return while improving  the environment and creating more jobs.
adding environmental 'house points' to the contract bidder prepared to invest in more expensive, environmentally friendly vehicles (as opposed to just the cheapest) is supported by the danish government and regional governments such as region syddanmark - another active supporter of the lean energy cluster.
but because we don't tend to think of denmark as a major industrial producer of manufactured goods, it's interesting to note that the danish government uses its remit to help encourage new, achievable ways of creating new technologies to help boost an already impressive record on creating what we might term an environmental industry sector.
so far, so environmentally friendly.
a well-attended meeting  was held inside the parliament building by the lean energy cluster to outline  the advantages of companies working together (in a 'cluster') on a specific  project i've been invited to a special meeting in the danish parliament.
and why the views rasmus banke holds could be key to our future.
the batteries are designed to be chargeable (by a simple domestic plug) within four hours - useful when using cheaper off-peak power and essential if a double shift pattern is to be used in future.
malcolm bates reports from copenhagen on a  small danish manufacturer of a 'plug-in' hybrid drive bin lift and compaction  system, and how it's benefiting from a whole new way of doing business - the  lean energy cluster.
"we were very  interested in the model adopted by the commune in the city of solna in sweden  (as reported in waste management world november/december 2011).
it has been convened by an organisation called the lean energy cluster (of which banke is a member) to discuss 'the future'.
it  also involves the future of the humble garbage truck - and the role it could  play in helping us maximise what resources we have left.
and as it involves forces outside of 'waste management', let's put that to one side.
"we are putting  the banke hybrid to work alongside our existing vehicles so we can compare  performance," ceo henrik meldgaard, explained.
this small, but incredibly honest democratic european state has  an enviable record on sustainability, on implementing visionary environmental  policies and being prepared to invest - by which i mean 'spend' citizens' tax  money - to a far greater degree than just about any other country on earth.
the zoeller-produced compactor body/hopper and binlifters can be  operated without need to run the engine - demonstrating how noise and fuel can  be saved even to the point of, for example, waste management authorities being  encouraged to invest in more advanced technical solutions, rather than - as  currently - be pressured to accept the lowest price for new vehicles, or when  awarding an operational contract?
but i'd suggest the other key gain  - a considerable reduction in operational noise - has not been promoted as  widely as it could have been.
"we are putting the banke hybrid to work alongside our existing vehicles so we can compare performance," ceo henrik meldgaard, explained.
it also involves the future of the humble garbage truck - and the role it could play in helping us maximise what resources we have left.
meldgaard has sixteen waste contracts in denmark and is looking to win more - a 'hybrid option' may just provide the way to win them.
but aside from a radically different business model, are there any  technical issues that need taking on board?
welsh councils to recycle  nappies and ahp waste (mar 22, 2012) 1.25 million ton order for waste  gasification to fertiliser firm in u.s. (mar 22, 2012) 'itinerant  collectors' concern industry as lords debts scrap payments (mar 21, 2012) agrivert preferred bidder for welsh food waste contract (mar 21, 2012) compostable organic waste bags trialled in germany (mar 20, 2012) u.s.  plastics recyclers awarded grants for thermoformed plastics (mar 20, 2012)
we'll soon find out if he's right - with a fleet of over 150 'conventional'  diesel/hydraulic pto-powered refuse collection and recycling trucks, meldgaard  is keen to convert to hybrids as soon as possible.
thanks to previous  long-term government policies and investment, denmark uses no more energy today  than it did in 1980, while also achieving an impressive reduction in co2  emissions well above the european average.
and unlike many other democracies, all the political parties in denmark support  this high investment approach.
the most publicised gain is in a reduction of co2 (typically 15 tonnes per vehicle per year) and a reduction in diesel fuel consumption of 5000 litres per vehicle per year - both significant figures.
so far, so  environmentally friendly.
a new year, a new approach to business?
it also has the support of manfred  zoeller, ceo of leading german manufacturer zoeller waste systems and  meldgaard, one of denmark's leading commercial waste contractors.
i would argue that in helping to promote a  new generation of refuse collection trucks, the waste and recycling sector  should follow that model," he suggests.
and why the  views rasmus banke holds could be key to our future.
the hybrid rcv will enter service with danish waste management  operator meldgaard, to provide comparisons with existing diesel-fuelled  hydraulically activated rcvs putting a value against the environmental gains in a waste collection  contract as a way of encouraging higher standards appeals to us," he adds.
this 'pod' fits between truck can and compaction body of most waste  collection vehicles with minimal loss of body length and an increase in unladen  weight of just 950 kg.
banke and soren jessing are adamant that a 40 kwh (effective)/700 volt battery pack is essential for this application, as opposed to using a 96 volt option.
if you come from a time when the only trends in industry seemed to involve  large, multinational organisations and venture capitalists mopping-up smaller  innovative companies, then this story will come - excuse the environmental pun  - as a breath of fresh air.
and i'm probably closer to being 'mad' than he is too.
what difference can individual governments make to a global problem?
the system has enough power to lift up to 1200 containers per battery pack charge - all within a modular package just 456 mm long, 2500 mm wide and 2000 mm high.
the future of our planet that is.
it works like this: a specific project is identified as the right thing to  do environmentally.
why is this such a good idea?
and when  you hear that from initial concept, to starting the company, putting together  the cluster, to actually having a prototype hybrid rcv ready to enter service  took just two years, you might be impressed enough to conclude that inventor or  not, rasmus banke is far from 'mad'.
it's  adaptable without a major increase in tooling costs - so will benefit from an  economy of scale.
in this case we're talking about replacing the  hydraulically-driven compaction equipment and bin/container lifters on a refuse  collection vehicle (garbage truck), by a 'plug-in' battery/electric system.
i've been invited to a special meeting in the danish parliament.
putting a value against the environmental gains in a waste collection contract as a way of encouraging higher standards appeals to us," he adds.
but that should just illustrate how appearances can be deceptive.
more waste management world articles waste management world issue  archives recent articles: contract to manage waste & recycling  collections in new zealand (mar 22, 2012)
the lean energy cluster has direct support  from the danish government, the local regional councils and the leading  technical university of southern denmark.
it will hopefully mean that the concept of more  efficient, environmentally friendly refuse collection vehicles is no longer a  dream, unique to one brand, or another.
as i'm sure you'll agree, that's a pretty demanding agenda for a single meeting - so let's get down to analysing the key elements....
it has  been convened by an organisation called the lean energy cluster (of which banke  is a member) to discuss 'the future'.
banke is passionate about these issues.
the danish government believes such targeted investment is vital if energy consumption is to be reduced and our economy is to grow in a future of increasing energy costs," he adds.
this view shows how little body space is taken up by the battery  pack.
in other branches of industry such as building construction, shipping, industrial processes and power generation for example, there are large specialists such as danfoss that research, design and build systems for incorporation into wider projects.
while a number of manufacturers are now offering such 'hybrid' options, or are involved in trying to build prototypes, according to banke, there is an overriding problem.
while a number of manufacturers are now offering such 'hybrid' options, or  are involved in trying to build prototypes, according to banke, there is an  overriding problem.
why  is this such a good idea?
there is some nervousness amongst some rcv manufacturers because as we discovered in the previous issue of waste management world, if more operators purchased large numbers of quieter diesel electric hybrid rcvs and double shifted them with two crews during each 24 hour period, which helps recoup the added purchase cost for obvious reasons, this might result in fewer number of vehicles being needed in total.
another interesting thing about the lean energy cluster approach is  that it lends itself to new partners being added, together with local assembly  within the growing economies - thus creating new jobs and saving energy in  waste collection and recycling on a global basis.
almost 10% of all exports.
and when you hear that from initial concept, to starting the company, putting together the cluster, to actually having a prototype hybrid rcv ready to enter service took just two years, you might be impressed enough to conclude that inventor or not, rasmus banke is far from 'mad'.
but aside from a radically different business model, are there any technical issues that need taking on board?
"but when it comes to more specific policies like reducing energy consumption by the country as a whole, and by organisations and individuals in particular, the danish government strongly believes all government departments, regional and local city councils and communes, should be leading by example," the minister confirmed to waste management world.
i would argue that in helping to promote a new generation of refuse collection trucks, the waste and recycling sector should follow that model," he suggests.
as soren jessing, development engineer  for banke accessory drives explains: "our solution is modular.
welcome to waste management world welcome to waste management world print email  save share a vision of the future - available now - new player, banke accessory  drives launches 'plug-in' hybrid system the 26tonne gross weight volvo/zoeller refuse collection vehicle  (rcv) fitted with banke modular 'plug-in' battery pack was demonstrated to  members of the danish parliament in early january this story has it all - an idealistic inventor, the need to save  the planet and a sceptical 'public'.
none of us know what life on earth will be like in 50 years time.
so passionate in fact, he gave up a top job with danfoss a/s in order to found banke accessory drives.
the system has enough power to lift up to 1200 containers per battery pack  charge - all within a modular package just 456 mm long, 2500 mm wide and 2000  mm high.
it works like this: a specific project is identified as the right thing to do environmentally.
this 'pod' fits between truck can and compaction body of most waste collection vehicles with minimal loss of body length and an increase in unladen weight of just 950 kg.
more waste management world articles recent articles: waste management world content categories:collection & transfer waste-to-energy home | collection & transfer | recycling | landfill | biological treatment | waste-to-energy | markets, policy & finance | opinion | rss contact us | subscribe | advertise | pennwell events | pennwell sites | pennwell.com |
as soren jessing, development engineer for banke accessory drives explains: "our solution is modular.
in this case we're talking about replacing the hydraulically-driven compaction equipment and bin/container lifters on a refuse collection vehicle (garbage truck), by a 'plug-in' battery/electric system.
the charger is  built-in.
it's a new way of doing business.
to be honest, rasmus banke doesn't look like a 'mad professor'.
already, the company is working with ten or more 'partners' on this first project.
meldgaard has sixteen waste contracts in  denmark and is looking to win more - a 'hybrid option' may just provide the way  to win them.
the charger is built-in.
most observers would accept that the constant rise and fall of engine revs, as hydraulic binlifters are used, is what makes night time waste collection operations in residential areas unacceptable.
this story has it all - an idealistic inventor, the need to save the planet and a sceptical 'public'.
forget one company needing to 'be in charge', or owning all the other  players, a cluster is lots of smaller specialists coming together on a specific  project and co-operating together as equals.
fuel consumption is less because  the truck power unit is only required to propel the vehicle along and not to  generate hydraulic power while stationary.
fuel consumption is less because the truck power unit is only required to propel the vehicle along and not to generate hydraulic power while stationary.
the batteries are designed to be chargeable (by a simple  domestic plug) within four hours - useful when using cheaper off-peak power and  essential if a double shift pattern is to be used in future.
it's a new way of doing  business.
partly because danes think it's the right thing to do, but also as martin lidegaard, the danish minister for energy explained, because investing in long-term solutions really can pay a good return while improving the environment and creating more jobs.
in contrast, a 'plug-in' battery  powered auxiliary drive enables the truck's engine to be switched off while  loading and packing, or stay at a constant tick-over.
in fact, designing and building high tech environmental solutions is now  very much the 'industry' denmark would like to be known for internationally.
if you come from a time when the only trends in industry seemed to involve large, multinational organisations and venture capitalists mopping-up smaller innovative companies, then this story will come - excuse the environmental pun - as a breath of fresh air.