that is up about $1, or 33 percent from  the same period a year ago.
for medium duty trucks, kenworth offers the low emission paccar px-6 and paccar px-8 engines as standard on its medium duty products.
kenworth’s dedication to the green fleet includes the aerodynamic  kenworth t660 and kenworth t700; t440 and w900s liquefied natural gas (lng) and  compressed natural gas (cng) models; t800 lng trucks; and kenworth t270 and  t370 diesel-electric hybrids.
you need javascript enabled to view it don't understand how to fill out arb's online form?
“drayage fleets with port operations were among early purchasers of our  t800 lng truck.
“the trucking industry has made great strides with regard to engine  emission reduction,” noted douglas.
the very low emission 12.9-liter paccar mx engine achieves u.s. environmental protection agency and california air resources board (carb) certification, and meets the stringent emission standards of 0.2 grams per brake horsepower hour of nox and 0.01 grams per brake horsepower hour of particulate matter.
kenworth truck company is the manufacturer of the world’s best(r) heavy and medium duty trucks.
“as a result, there’s significant interest in our natural gas trucks and that interest is expanding into an increasing number of markets in the united states and canada,” said douglas, who noted that natural gas may typically cost at least $1 to $1.50 less than the equivalent diesel fuel and is a cleaner burning fuel domestically produced in north america.
“kenworth and kenworth dealers are here to assist truck operators interested in pursuing such funding.”
“as a result, there’s significant interest in our natural gas  trucks and that interest is expanding into an increasing number of markets in  the united states and canada,” said douglas, who noted that natural gas  may typically cost at least $1 to $1.50 less than the equivalent diesel fuel  and is a cleaner burning fuel domestically produced in north america.
“the reality is that high diesel prices and evolving  environmental rules are leading truck operators to seek practical solutions  when it comes to their truck purchases in 2011 and beyond.”
“drayage fleets with port operations were among early purchasers of our t800 lng truck.
“the trucking industry has made great strides with regard to engine emission reduction,” noted douglas.
news carb news  kenworth aero, natural gas and  diesel-electric hybrid trucks power green highway kenworth aero, natural  gas and diesel-electric hybrid trucks power green highway carb  updates & news wednesday, 30 march 2011 14:54 louisville, ky.--(business wire)--aerodynamic trucks, natural gas vehicles,  diesel-electric hybrids and low emission diesel engines are powering  kenworth’s industry leadership in providing environmentally friendly  products with excellent performance that can help truck operators enhance fuel  efficiency and reduce emissions.
those are the types of tangible benefits that attract over-the-road  customers,” said douglas.
“kenworth and kenworth dealers are here to  assist truck operators interested in pursuing such funding.”
kenworth truck company jeff parietti, 425-828-5196 this e-mail address is being protected from spambots.
“the business is changing as the trend moves toward greener  trucks,” said andy douglas, kenworth national sales manager for specialty  markets, who has been at the forefront of kenworth’s green charge for the  past several years.
that makes them especially  attractive today to fleets running local routes with a significant number  of starts and stops, and to municipalities seeking to save on fuel and reduce  their carbon footprint.”
“our t270 and t370 diesel-electric hybrids can help enhance fuel economy by up to an estimated 30 percent in pickup and delivery applications and up to 50 percent in utility operations.
(nasdaq: pcar) contacts
for medium duty trucks, kenworth  offers the low emission paccar px-6 and paccar px-8 engines as standard on its  medium duty products.
use our own data collection sheet presented by cleanfleets.net fax your data to 916-739-1139 jared@cleanfleets.net jared yamasaki mobile: 818-371-6416 office: 916-739-1139 update dec. 29, 2011 next carb meeting jan 5, 2012 stay updated on carb issues related to the trucking rules, click on the banner to subscribe “did you know”
kenworth is the only truck manufacturer to receive the epa’s clean air excellence award in recognition of its environmentally friendly products.
“the reality is that high diesel prices and evolving environmental rules are leading truck operators to seek practical solutions when it comes to their truck purchases in 2011 and beyond.”
“when diesel fuel prices go up, the aerodynamic t660 and t700 – which both hold epa smartway(sm) program certification – also receive an even closer look.
the t700 has the lowest aerodynamic drag of any truck in the  company’s history.
and don’t forget about engines.
what's new archives annual archives of all postings to the "what's new" page enter a zip code to find what legislators represent that area.
both fuel-efficient vehicles offer low operating  cost, advanced technology, outstanding driver comfort, and high resale value.
those are the types of tangible benefits that attract over-the-road customers,” said douglas.
carb has this much information?
both fuel-efficient vehicles offer low operating cost, advanced technology, outstanding driver comfort, and high resale value.
join carb's email list public outreach program
“our t270 and t370 diesel-electric hybrids can help enhance fuel  economy by up to an estimated 30 percent in pickup and delivery applications  and up to 50 percent in utility operations.
“we applaud those customers who have added kenworth  aerodynamic, natural gas and diesel-electric hybrid trucks and adopted the  latest environmental protection agency (epa) compliant engines as part of their  efforts to reduce diesel fuel consumption and emissions.”
“kenworth’s diverse product offering is enabling a growing  number of environmentally conscious fleets and truck operators to drive the  green highway,” said bill kozek, kenworth general manager and paccar vice  president.
a summary for every list serve broadcast for the prior month plus a link to the full text of each broadcast
kenworth’s dedication to the green fleet includes the aerodynamic kenworth t660 and kenworth t700; t440 and w900s liquefied natural gas (lng) and compressed natural gas (cng) models; t800 lng trucks; and kenworth t270 and t370 diesel-electric hybrids.
according to recent figures from the u.s. energy information  administration, the average cost of diesel in the united  states reached nearly $4 in march.
“we applaud those customers who have added kenworth aerodynamic, natural gas and diesel-electric hybrid trucks and adopted the latest environmental protection agency (epa) compliant engines as part of their efforts to reduce diesel fuel consumption and emissions.”“as
according to douglas, there are also a number of federal, state and provincial, county, and municipal grant programs and financial incentives available to help truck operators purchase natural gas vehicles and diesel-electric hybrids.
“the business is changing as the trend moves toward greener trucks,” said andy douglas, kenworth national sales manager for specialty markets, who has been at the forefront of kenworth’s green charge for the past several years.
according to douglas, there are also a number of federal, state and  provincial, county, and municipal grant programs and financial incentives  available to help truck operators purchase natural gas vehicles and  diesel-electric hybrids.
“when diesel fuel prices go up, the aerodynamic t660 and t700 –  which both hold epa smartway(sm) program certification – also receive an  even closer look.
according to recent figures from the u.s. energy information administration, the average cost of diesel in the united states reached nearly $4 in march.
the t700 has the lowest aerodynamic drag of any truck in the company’s history.
more recently, companies as diverse as ups, natural gas provider alagasco in alabama, and solid waste collector and recycler enviro express in connecticut, to name a few, have purchased kenworth natural gas vehicles.
that makes them especially attractive today to fleets running local routes with a significant number of starts and stops, and to municipalities seeking to save on fuel and reduce their carbon footprint.”
a result, there’s significant interest in our natural gas trucks and that interest is expanding into an increasing number of markets in the united states and canada”
more recently, companies as diverse as ups, natural gas  provider alagasco in alabama, and solid waste collector and recycler  enviro express in connecticut, to name a few, have purchased kenworth  natural gas vehicles.
that’s a positive trend that will grow as more truck operators  move into the low emission engines.”
“for example, with  everything else being equal, one class 8 truck with a 2010 epa clean diesel  engine produces six times fewer emissions than a class 8 truck with a 2007 epa  engine.
kenworth truck company is the manufacturer of the world’s best(r)  heavy and medium duty trucks.
louisville, ky.--(business wire)--aerodynamic trucks, natural gas vehicles, diesel-electric hybrids and low emission diesel engines are powering kenworth’s industry leadership in providing environmentally friendly products with excellent performance that can help truck operators enhance fuel efficiency and reduce emissions.
that is up about $1, or 33 percent from the same period a year ago.
that’s a positive trend that will grow as more truck operators move into the low emission engines.”
kenworth’s internet home page is at www.kenworth.com.
“as a result, there’s significant interest in our natural gas  trucks and that interest is expanding into an increasing number of markets in  the united states and canada” kenworth is the only truck manufacturer to receive the epa’s clean  air excellence award in recognition of its environmentally friendly products.
“for example, with everything else being equal, one class 8 truck with a 2010 epa clean diesel engine produces six times fewer emissions than a class 8 truck with a 2007 epa engine.
the very low emission 12.9-liter  paccar mx engine achieves u.s. environmental protection agency and california  air resources board (carb) certification, and meets the stringent emission  standards of 0.2 grams per brake horsepower hour of nox and 0.01 grams per  brake horsepower hour of particulate matter.
“kenworth’s diverse product offering is enabling a growing number of environmentally conscious fleets and truck operators to drive the green highway,” said bill kozek, kenworth general manager and paccar vice president.