the program covers 3 years or 36,000 miles, whichever comes first.
generally speaking, there are two types: mild hybrids like the honda  civic hybrid use their electric motors mainly to boost the performance of their  smallish gasoline engine, which means they typically get better mileage on the  highway than they do around town.
**the volkswagen carefree maintenance program covers the vehicle’s 10k, 20k and 30k scheduled maintenance intervals except for the volkswagen routan.
vwoa is not in any manner responsible for the user-generated content, and vwoa does not guarantee the accuracy, integrity, or quality of the user-generated content.
do not take any actions that will place you, your passengers or other drivers at risk, including testing the limit of your fuel tank by operating your vehicle at extremely low fuel limits.
coverage is during the term of the new vehicle limited warranty, at no additional charge.
full hybrids like the toyota prius, on the  other hand, can operate on battery power alone for short distances, making them  more fuel-efficient in stop-and-go traffic than they are on the highway.
made it there in about 20 gallons of fuel driving 75-80mph.. 11.
wow, you really made me think twice about buying a hybrid.
*** *jetta tdi epa estimates 30 mpg city / 41 mpg highway.
many of  the most popular models no longer qualify.
finally, the abundant low-end torque tdi engines—combined with  volkswagen’s sporty european handling—make volkswagen’s three  clean diesel models hands-down winners in the fun-to-drive department.
dave smith | february 27, 2010 at 5:16 pm great article.
the routan carefree maintenance program covers the vehicle’s 6k, 12k, 18k, 24k, 30k and 36k scheduled maintenance intervals.
see dealer or  vehicle maintenance program booklet for details.
mileage estimates are based on epa test procedure.
your mileage will vary.
copyright agent think blue.
enough space to haul a 9′4″ surf board in a hatchback, the stationwagon can carry a 10 foot board, inside!
hal hackett | january 31, 2010 at 8:29 pm we own a prius and a jetta tdi.
this includes replacing the vehicle’s large, expensive  battery pack at the end of its useful life.
blog terms and conditions tdi truth & dare  think blue is the philosophy behind our environmentally friendly,  high-performance cars, fueled by tdi clean diesel.
the routan carefree maintenance program covers the vehicle’s 6k,  12k, 18k, 24k, 30k and 36k scheduled maintenance intervals.
i have seen numbers over 47 when i took it out for a spin without traffic (average 65 mph) 10.
available to taxpayers who purchased a qualified vehicle on  or before december 31, 2010.
i recently drove from clearwater fl to stafford virginia with trunk fully loaded, 3 hefty adults and a child plus snacks.
my fill up today was 642 miles.
please consult  a tax professional for more information or go tohttp://www.irs.gov share / email /
available to taxpayers who purchased a qualified vehicle on or before december 31, 2010.
the  program covers 3 years or 36,000 miles, whichever comes first.
tdi clean diesel when it comes right down to it,  volkswagen’s new generation of turbocharged “clean diesel”
with a 14.5-gallon fuel tank and epa estimates of 41 mpg on the highway*,  the jetta tdi can go nearly 600 miles on a single fill-up.
this is the concern which exists in the society and needs to be eliminated from the society as soon as possible.
obey all speed and traffic laws.
your mileage  will unless otherwise noted, vary.
august 2008 customer care links photo galleries volkswagen of america, inc., an operating unit of volkswagen group of  america, inc. (“vwoa”), has not approved or verified the accuracy  of any information posted by users of this website (the “user-generated  content”), including any information regarding mileage, performance,  pricing, etc.
coverage is during  the term of the new vehicle limited warranty, at no additional charge.
by providing your email and/or mobile number you are opting in to receive future text and/or email communications from volkswagen.
leased vehicles are not eligible for the tax credit.
instead i get to drive in and around washington dc metro traffic.
all three volkswagen tdi models are still eligible for the federal  government’sadvanced lean burn technology motor vehicle tax credits of up  to $1,300, depending on the model you purchase.
jon kirkeide | january 18, 2012 at 3:16 pm bought hail damaged 1999.5 mkiv hatchback with 160k, cheap.
standard rates apply.
other factors to consider: *jetta tdi epa estimates 30 mpg city / 41 mpg highway.
does not include routine wear and tear on parts such as brakes, tires, wiper blades, light bulbs, etc. ***tax credit submitted under notice 2006-9 and internal revenue cod, section 30b relative to the 2009 volkswagen jetta 2.0l tdi sedan and sportwagen and touareg 2 tdi.
don’t be fooled into thinking that a “hybrid” badge  automatically means a particular model is the best choice for the environment.
i routinely get over 600 miles out of 12 gallons of diesel fuel.
sean baldwin | july 9, 2009 at 1:49 am my tdi can eat hybrids for breakfast
log in to post a comment
← return to  homepage june 15, 2009.
tdi academy: clean diesel vs. hybrid introduction
but, they give her such terrible “gas.”
mileage estimates are based on epa test procedures plus  drag estimates.
for a moment, i was nearly fooled into helping save the planet, until you reminded me looking great and having fun was much more important.
your mileage will  vary.
i now know and smile with vw “fahrvergnügen!”
we realize there’s an awful lot of hype out there about new powertrains that promise to solve a long list of our planet’s most pressing problems, from global warming to the nationwide shortage of buffalo wings.
mileage estimates are based on epa test procedures plus drag estimates.
joseph bezek | september 15, 2009 at 4:37 pm that’s so funny.
would love to hang out and chat, but i’ve got to rush out and buy myself a gas guzzling ‘mean machine’ instead and burn some rubber.
while  several hybrid models place highly on the epa’s list of the greenest  vehicles on the road, there are several issues you should be aware of: no one expects a hybrid to be all that exciting to drive, but be aware  that most also have small quirks—like a surging feeling when you step on  the brake pedal—that owners say takes some getting used to.
in addition, thetdi engines in both the jetta sedan, sportwagen and thetouareg suv are certified to meet the same tough government emission standards—known as “tier 2 bin 5”—as the cleanest gasoline-electric hybrids.
i drive about 112 miles per day to work 85% highway.
i am now running 2003 mkiv wagon with the odometer reaching 230k. drove over 800 miles on a tank with user friendly tips, all stock power plant, driving from minneapolis,mn to marquette, mi.
so we’re going to give it to you straight.
the prius is a wonderful car, but it is boring.
in addition, thetdi engines in both the jetta sedan, sportwagen  and thetouareg suv are certified to meet the same tough government emission  standards—known as “tier 2 bin 5”—as the cleanest  gasoline-electric hybrids.
unlawful, dangerous and reckless driving practices are expressly discouraged.
because we figure that if we lay out the pros and cons of the two main alternatives — gasoline-electric hybrids and clean diesels — you’re smart enough to reach your own conclusions.
volkswagen of america, inc., an operating unit of volkswagen group of america, inc. (“vwoa”), has not approved or verified the accuracy of any information posted by users of this website (the “user-generated content”), including any information regarding mileage, performance, pricing, etc.
brendan moser | may 12, 2011 at 12:53 pm just bought a 2011 tdi sportsawagon yesterday.
that understandable bias aside, let’s take a closer look at these two popular car choices: gasoline-electric hybrids the first thing you should know about hybrid vehicles, which combine a traditional gasoline engine with a battery pack and one or more electric motors, is that they’re not all created equal.
keith daniels | may 11, 2011 at 8:47 pm 2011 jetta sportswagon averaging 43-50 mpg.
only a limited number of full tax credits are available.
i just received a custom license plate frame i ordered for my 09 jetta tdi that says “turbo diesels eat hybrids for lunch” 3.
matt knobel | may 16, 2011 at 9:15 am i am not lucky enough to drive my 2011 jetta tdi on the highway.
bryan harrington | december 19, 2011 at 11:37 pm
that understandable bias aside, let’s take a closer look at  these two popular car choices: gasoline-electric hybrids the first thing you  should know about hybrid vehicles, which combine a traditional gasoline engine  with a battery pack and one or more electric motors, is that they’re not  all created equal.
other  factors to consider: because of their sturdier construction, it’s not uncommon for diesel  engines to still be going strong after 250,000 miles with little more than  regular maintenance (which is now complementary on all vw models for the first  36 months or 36,000 miles, whichever comes first**).
does not include routine wear  and tear on parts such as brakes, tires, wiper blades, light bulbs, etc. ***tax credit submitted under notice 2006-9 and internal revenue cod,  section 30b relative to the 2009 volkswagen jetta 2.0l tdi sedan and sportwagen  and touareg 2 tdi.
unlawful, dangerous and reckless driving practices are expressly  discouraged.
when it comes right down to it, volkswagen’s new generation of turbocharged “clean diesel” models combine impressive fuel economy* with the simplicity and durability of diesel engines.
the purpose of this site is to encourage fuel efficient driving  skills.
ronnie velazquez | july 10, 2011 at 5:11 am i love my jetta tdi!
check to see if the federal government’s alternative motor vehicle  tax creditis still available on the hybrid you’re considering.
that said, i generally average between 38 to 43 mpg over a 27 mile range.
raised the odometer up to 220k. parked it running strong with over 120k on it’s second timing belt and very tired and worn chassis.
your mileage will unless otherwise noted, vary.
used it up running pizza’s in minnesota and chasing wave producing weather systems around lake superior and lake michigan.
because we figure  that if we lay out the pros and cons of the two main alternatives —  gasoline-electric hybrids and clean diesels — you’re smart enough  to reach your own conclusions.
not to mention the fastest i have ever covered a paved surface was in these vehicle.
please consult a tax professional for more information or go tohttp://www.irs.gov 1.
keith daniels | may 11, 2011 at 8:49 pm
in fact, there are a number of new non-hybrid models on the road that are  actually more fuel-efficient and/or less-polluting than some hybrids.
the greater complexity of hybrid powertrains means there’s more that  can go wrong.
while gasoline and diesel prices fluctuate, tdi models’ fuel economy  numbers mean you’re still likely to end up spending less at the pump  compared to some hybrids.
**the volkswagen carefree maintenance program covers the vehicle’s  10k, 20k and 30k scheduled maintenance intervals except for the volkswagen  routan.
of course, this also  depends on your driving style and the type of roads you travel.
models combine impressive fuel economy* with the simplicity and durability of  diesel engines.
full hybrids like the toyota prius, on the other hand, can operate on battery power alone for short distances, making them more fuel-efficient in stop-and-go traffic than they are on the highway.
i was never stuck while delivering pizza’s in minnesota winters!
while several hybrid models place highly on the epa’s list of the greenest vehicles on the road, there are several issues you should be aware of: tdi clean diesel
anyone here try using bio diesel???
vwoa is not in any manner responsible for the user-generated  content, and vwoa does not guarantee the accuracy, integrity, or quality of the  user-generated content.
see dealer or vehicle maintenance program booklet for details.
the purpose of this site is to encourage fuel efficient driving skills.
leased vehicles are not eligible for the tax  credit.
blog terms and conditions introduction
i really want to get one of these jettas!
of course, we’re also pretty confident volkswagen’s tdi clean diesel models will look pretty good by comparison.
with snow tires the front wheel drive can bust thru major drifts.
generally speaking, there are two types: mild hybrids like the honda civic hybrid use their electric motors mainly to boost the performance of their smallish gasoline engine, which means they typically get better mileage on the highway than they do around town.
finally, the abundant low-end torque tdi engines—combined with volkswagen’s sporty european handling—make volkswagen’s three clean diesel models hands-down winners in the fun-to-drive department.
helen thomas | november 3, 2010 at 12:17 am the initiative taken for the concern is very serious and need an attention of every one.
we realize there’s an awful  lot of hype out there about new powertrains that promise to solve a long list  of our planet’s most pressing problems, from global warming to the  nationwide shortage of buffalo wings.
do not take any actions that will place you, your passengers or  other drivers at risk, including testing the limit of your fuel tank by  operating your vehicle at extremely low fuel limits.