diesel is not in limited supply here – the excess that is made is sold in europe.
there’s not a vehicle, a person, a light — anything — visible on the us side of the river, but i can’t shake the sensation we’re being watched.
no point in this one, 335i gets better performance.
i’ve always thought america’s vast interstate network, still one of the largest and least crowded freeway systems in the world, was made for diesels.
waltz apparently revealed the location of the mine — reportedly deep in the superstition mountains — on his deathbed, but it has never been found.
but detroit and gas companies are blowing in the same pipe.
admittedly this model has none of the “clean” emission nonsense and uses no urea.
driver and passenger are  likely to need refueling first.
there is absolutely no other engine capable of resist and endure hard work as a diesel engine.
if you do 40+ miles/day like us.
the ugly black fence snaking through the sand is a  shock; after playing such a pivotal role in bringing down the berlin wall,  it’s strangely unsettling to realize america is now one of the few places  in the world — other than israel and korea — where you’ll now  see a man-made barrier defining a national border.
the mission was founded in 1700, but the church, with its elaborately carved baroque façade, was not completed until almost 100 years later.
and we do not drive slow.
i’ve always thought america’s vast interstate network, still  one of the largest and least crowded freeway systems in the world, was made for  diesels.
we did it for 3 times already.
after an early fish taco dinner at a roadside diner with a superb view of the 18 wheelers rumbling past, we drive down to the colorado river.
then again you have owned both so your post has more weight than mine:) great article.
it seems like it would be easier for them to refurbish them and reuse them on the same model of car.
we pass roosevelt dam, built in 1911 to ensure a water supply for phoenix,  and grab lunch on the old mining town of globe before heading west along route  60 to the junction with route 79, where we turn south towards tucson.
sure diesels aren’t new by any means, but the cost effectiveness, infrastructure and public image just aren’t where they need to be to make them viable atm.
if only more people could see the light.
it converted me instantly.
the engine output is identical to my 2006 e320 cdi, 369 foot pound torque and 201 bhp.
and if so, have they green-lighted or pulled that project?
if more folks drove diesels the price of ulsd would go up temporarily until the refineries adjusted the gas/diesel output to reflect the higher demand.
the europeans on average are conserving much more fuel than all these tree nuts, 100%.
the border patrol guards check them carefully, then wave us on our way.
hybrids are better choices for folks that do mostly in-town driving but diesels excel on the highway.
i am not too hung up on the 425 tq since the car only makes 260hp.
just west of ocotillo, as i-8 climbs out of the desert, we spot what appears to be a ruined castle.
i liked the point the author made about diesel vehicles being a good alternative to hybrids on the highway.
which is why i decided to take our bmw 335d long-termer for a roadtrip  through the southwest via phoenix, tucson, and yuma.
after an  early fish taco dinner at a roadside diner with a superb view of the 18  wheelers rumbling past, we drive down to the colorado river.
just something to be based on magnets.
so much so that i’m still struggling to understand why, of all the programs cash-strapped gm had to cut, it chose to stop work on the new light duty 4.5-liter duramax v-8 diesel for the gmt900 pickups and suvs.
i don’t really understand why gm has given up on the light duty diesel idea.
the hybrid drive is probably just as expensive as a diesal & may not be as heavy duty.
clearly, diesel is way to go . . .
their petroleum products cost two to three times more.
i normally could care less about mpg, but this was better than i expected at nearly 24 in the city.
i always tell my friends that if they are going to use their car for short distance comute and park it most of the time buy a gasoline car, becouse you never get back the extra price of the engine, but if you have to put in a lot of miles buy a diesel, they are unbreakable and only need clean filters and fresh oil, no tune ups and not electrical parts to bother you!
we head along route 86, which loops down towards the mexican border and through the tohono o’odham nation before turning north to join i-8 at gila bend.
his eyebrows arch: “in yuma?!”
it’s similar to the comparison of a prius to say a corolla.
while a bmw isn’t exactly cheap and doesn’t make sense as a cost-saving fuel efficient vehicle… a jetta or golf diesel is brilliant.
i bought my 335d with the $4500 eco credit bmw offered and got the car for less than the equivalent 335i.
also, it is known fact that around 70% of all prius i (generation) cars had to replace batteries in order to stay hybrid.
after four days and 1304 miles on the road, the bmw 335d has averaged 32 mpg without any special eco-driving.
the blacktop  ends just as the road begins a steep and winding descent into fish creek  canyon, dropping 900 feet in a mile at one point.
and i got 35.3mpg on my last long trip.
i’d consider a diesel chevy half-ton as my next truck…but no. wasn’t ford also considering a diesel for the new f-150?
which is why i decided to take our bmw 335d long-termer for a roadtrip through the southwest via phoenix, tucson, and yuma.
does a diesel make sense in america’s wide open spaces?
i would still take the 335i though.
heavy duty vehicles benefit from the torque of a diesel, but so do light-duty vehicles.
you can read about the adventure of picking up the car at the bmw welt, the drives to lindau, berchtesgaden, roßfeld, and graz, and back to munich, at http://www.thedieseldriver.com i appreciate diesels , but some are a tough pill to swallow.
that assessment that millions of barrels could be sent back … is actually true but we do not know equation for that.
it grunts like a v-8 — shrugging off steep climbs and surging past slow-moving traffic with the merest wriggle of your right foot — yet it sips fuel almost like a four.
us tax structure does favor gas, but if you think the refineries are making hardly any money on gas today you need to check facts.
winding two-lane blacktop takes us up into the lost dutchman state park,  named after a rich gold mine supposedly found by prussian immigrant jacob waltz  in the 1870s.
so to make long story short . . .
the main benefit in that case would be range rather than lowering oil consumption.
but maybe they should think again: a bmw  source told me recently 30 percent of all x5s sold in america now are diesels.
it’s like other have mentioned above, the premium of some diesels compared to other models is just too much for people to bear.
just as we’re turning onto the main road, i  notice a set of headlights in the rear view mirror, maybe half a mile behind  us.
white and green border patrol suvs lurk in the scrub, and we are stopped at a checkpoint.
unfortunately, bmw does not have 5-series in diesel.
categories: auto review, bmw, luxury car, sedan,  the big picture related motor trend articles got an old diesel powered volkswagen?
this might be acompact car, but it’s capable of crossing a continent in giant leaps — based on our experience the 335d will easily go 515 miles between fuel stops.
“so what are you doing here?” says the polite border patrol  officer after he’s checked our green cards, and had a look in the  335d’s trunk to make sure we weren’t transporting illegal  immigrants.
diesel is way to go for now ntil we find better way of building and recycling batteries.
although i completely disagree with his hairstyle, mackenzie can certainly write an impressive article.
another 7,000 $ cost for “green owner”.
my loaded ’09 jetta tdi cost me 19.7k after dealer discounts, state sales tax exemption and federal tax credit.
; most of my driving is in the city and a hybrid is perfect for it.
with a good tuning box and sawn-off catalytic converter it can hit 250 bhp and 425 foot pound of torque.
the 335d takes on 12.7 gallons of diesel next morning in scottsdale, which means we’ve averaged 31.8 mpg for the 404 miles from l.a.
the 335d eats it up, the crisp steering and buttoned-down chassis making light work of the constant changes of direction.
the  mission was founded in 1700, but the church, with its elaborately carved  baroque façade, was not completed until almost 100 years later.
gm could have offer the duramax in their large suvs… come in handy for suburban owners, have cylinder deactivation &
people always think about the inicial cost and the cost of repair, but let me tell you that i drove a 1985 toyota cressida as taxi for 20 years and after the car finished its working years my father kept the car for personal use.
the 6.6l duramax is a $7000 option on the 2010 gmc sierra, and the 335d is $3350 more than the (better performing on paper) 335i.
are you listening, mr. whitacre?
the car has 369 foot pound out of the box!
volkswagen finds highest mileage vw diesel in us volkswagen passat bluemotion diesel set for geneva gm obtains 50 percent stake in diesel engine manufacturer would you want a vw rabbit diesel hybrid that gets 69 mpg?
i figured i would be  testing the theory as much as the car.
and in town, the torque makes all the difference.
in miami we still have a 1/4 of tank.
non-food bio-diesal has great protential though.
surely they must be here.
now as for refining process, you could argue that we could get less diesel than regular gas … but remants of the refining process are by far checmically better then after refining the same oil into gas alone.
but europe’s ancient cities are perpetually jammed  with diesels idling at traffic lights, while here in america you regularly see  hybrids being hustled along freeways at 70-80 mph, their electric motors  virtually useless.
the haunting sound of the church organ mingles with jaunty mariachi music from a nearby building, while the delicious aroma of tortillas on hotplates fills the air.
the car was featured in the toyota magasine a year ago as one of the cars with highest millage in the country without an overhaul.
we call in for a coffee  before pushing on toward san diego.
the chrysler t&c comes only with a 2.8 diesel in palermo, yet it does fine.
the blacktop ends just as the road begins a steep and winding descent into fish creek canyon, dropping 900 feet in a mile at one point.
it’s sunday, and the parking lot is filling up with pickup trucks.
the north-bound i-15 hits 4190 feet as  it crests cajon pass en route to barstow and the junction with i-40, which will  take us west to phoenix.
plus w di i4s in mid-size sedans w light weight construction they will soon get ~35mpg highway (which is enough for most americans) & near v6 performance (plenty)..
yuma also proved diesel fuel is more consistently priced in arizona than gas.
wonder when this hybrid car stereotyping will stop.
i look around, trying to spot the border patrol.
anyone who’d buy a hybrid over one of those is clearly someone who’d rather ignore the facts and chase an image.
just west of ocotillo, as i-8 climbs out of the desert, we spot what  appears to be a ruined castle.
i figured i would be testing the theory as much as the car.
> america is now one of the few places in the world — other than israel and korea — where you’ll now see a man-made barrier defining a national border – dear angus, besides tiny israel and korea, there is the 1/6th of the land on earth – russia – all surrounded by barbed wire.
no more chronic high pressure fuel pump issues stranding the car or causing long starts(which my ex-335i suffered from), i enjoy diesel prices that are cheaper than regular in ca, much smoother throttle tip in, lower co2 emissions and 425lb/ft of torquey thrust that makes the car feel faster than the 335i in most situations.
miles in a bmw 335d written by: angus mackenzie on january 25 2010 6:11 pm america and europe might have this whole hybrid/diesel thing the wrong way round.
after a couple of minutes, i wheel the 335d around and head back to the bright lights of yuma.
on the oher side, here in usa, the only recycling battery facility burned to ground few months ago.
pity it is killed by californian tree-huggers.
the 335d eats it up, the crisp steering and buttoned-down  chassis making light work of the constant changes of direction.
are you serious about conserving fuel or just want to say so?
after a legally-resident german-born photo assistant  working for one of our freelance photographers was held in a cell for almost  two hours at a border patrol checkpoint near the salton sea a few years back  because he didn’t have his passport on him, mrs. mackenzie (a brit) and i  (an australian) never travel anywhere in the us without our green cards.
it is impressive mileage..
diesal is like oil (thicker) so i suspected it took more oil to make a gallon hence the higher energy content.
maybe gm product planners don’t believe diesel has a future in  america; maybe they’re worried people won’t pay a premium for a  diesel engine while gas prices remain low (though we have found places where  diesel is cheaper than regular gas).
the  border patrol guards check them carefully, then wave us on our way.
the petroleum savings more than made up for the nox emissions.
diesels, on the other hand, like cruising at constant velocities, where their highly efficient combustion process allows them to extract the maximum energy out of every gallon of fuel.
enjoy the 335d and congrats on the new car:)
(back in l.a. our initial $2.99 a gallon tank of diesel cost $0.20 a gallon less than regular and $0.38 a gallon less than premium.)
diesal may not be that good an idea even for full size trucks/suvs except for those that need to big torque for heavy hauling.
in gl we can go from atlanta to miami w/o any need to refuel. . .
if we pay “cheap” for our gasoline here in the states, imagine how little we’ll pay for diesel if demand grows great article.
with 425 lb-ft of torque on tap between 1750 and 2250 rpm, the 335d cruises effortlessly up the freeway as it sweeps across the face of the san gabriel mountains, the 3.0-liter diesel barely breaking a sweat as we pass laboring semis.
horserule: trust me….don’t worry about the 265hp vs. 300hp.
horserule: you’re actually incorrect.
that’s better than even the polo tdi sold in europe.
as for batteries, aren’t the automakers involved in recycling their own hybrid battery packs?
we take it easy, wary of  damaging the 335d’s low profile tires on the occasional rocky outcrops.
diesel in america: 1300
after a couple of minutes, i wheel the 335d around and head back  to the bright lights of yuma.
the point-and-squirt running on the apache trail takes its toll — our fuel consumption for today’s 226-mile leg has dropped to 29 mpg.
at the same time, the performance was startlingly good and i didn’t have to drive it gingerly for such a decent return in fuel economy.
or we could go from atlanta to savannah and back with half tank .
just like we buy their excess gasoline.
the only setback was the city mileage (13 mpg).
but europe’s ancient cities are perpetually jammed with diesels idling at traffic lights, while here in america you regularly see hybrids being hustled along freeways at 70-80 mph, their electric motors virtually useless.
diesel fuel is very comparable to premium unleaded (which would go into a regular 335) so you would still get the benefit of the superior mpg even with diesel fuel increases.
this might be acompact car, but it’s  capable of crossing a continent in giant leaps — based on our experience  the 335d will easily go 515 miles between fuel stops.
using the 335d’s  sat nav map, we drive down a road that looks to end right at the river’s  edge.
if i had to guess, i think it is viewed that if it is too much of a success, it would completely kill their efforts with the 2-mode hybrid system.
the river slides by in the darkness below us; on the other side are lights in the distance.
now i drive a 2005 corolla with 2.0 diesel engine, and after 175000 miles it seems to run better than ever!
we take the long way to tucson, looping out and around the scenic apache trail.
it will run out soon though and the 335i is now coming with incentives.
leave a reply cancel name (required) email (required, but never shared) web 2009 bmw 3-series suggested price $32,998
we have 2 diesels ’08 mb gl320 cdi and ’10 jetta sport wagon tdi.
the point-and-squirt running on the apache  trail takes its toll — our fuel consumption for today’s 226-mile  leg has dropped to 29 mpg.
we live 2 months a year in palermo, italy where 83% of the cars are diesel.
“so what are you doing here?” says the polite border patrol officer after he’s checked our green cards, and had a look in the 335d’s trunk to make sure we weren’t transporting illegal immigrants.
it’s a good car, but this is an apples & oranges comparison.
the diesel smell of yore is gone, a good thing since a/c is very rare in the “average” car (mazda 2, hyundai getz or atos, ford fiesta [now there is a cool looking car], fiat bravo [there's another] or cinquecento).
so no need to spend the extra cost on building a diesal motor for small to mid-size cars here.
start with exxon’s profits the last two years.
we make l.a. later that afternoon.
you can not forced them to do.
it got to be true one way or another.
i sit right on the speed limit as the lights slowly get closer.
if i had the $$ for a 335d i’d trade in my ’09 jetta tdi in a heartbeat.
at  one point, as the freeway snakes through the imperial dunes, we come within a  quarter mile of the border.
i-8 takes us into yuma, which mrs. mackenzie had thought might be a picturesque border town.
we have a chevy matiz, and gm is way behind, by the way.
it should include co2 emissions, mileage, cost, and maitenance.
as far as hybrid vs diesel in mileage, there’s a whole bunch of guys driving vw tdis that get similar or better mileage when compared to the prius and those cars aren’t underpowered.
the ugly black fence snaking through the sand is a shock; after playing such a pivotal role in bringing down the berlin wall, it’s strangely unsettling to realize america is now one of the few places in the world — other than israel and korea — where you’ll now see a man-made barrier defining a national border.
i-8 takes us into yuma, which mrs. mackenzie had thought might be a  picturesque border town.
this is a land where the capability and functionality of a full-size pickup or suv makes a lot of sense.
but maybe they should think again: a bmw source told me recently 30 percent of all x5s sold in america now are diesels.
miles in a bmw 335d written by: angus mackenzie on january 25 2010 6:11  pm america and europe might have this whole hybrid/diesel thing the wrong way
the southwest doesn’t get much more authentic than this.
sure the prius gets the better mileage, but it’s the price premium that takes close to 90,000 miles to over come that most people don’t take into consideration.
if u are correct then sounds like it.
this was a good article.
seems that europe should adopt hybrids & battery cars more along w diesals w start/stop feature.
with 425 lb-ft of torque on tap between 1750 and 2250  rpm, the 335d cruises effortlessly up the freeway as it sweeps across the face  of the san gabriel mountains, the 3.0-liter diesel barely breaking a sweat as  we pass laboring semis.
your interior room comparison didn’t make sense.
one point missed is that diesels idle dead lean, while even dfi cars have to be slightly enriched, and all others much enriched.
i think the biggest issues facing diesels are the same with any alternative power source.
once of the pass, we loaf through the high desert, the engine turning a relaxed 2000 rpm at 80 mph.
plus small turbo i4s will get 40 mpg city w increased performance over a larger normally aspirated motor.
jetta on the other hand, can not go below 38 mpg no matter how i drive it.
start/stop feature to increase mpg even more.
plus the refineries are already setup for gas & they don’t make hardly anything on gas these days and would probably not want to invest the money to convert… right now diesal is in limited supply in the us & increased demand would only drive the price higher.
i’ve never seen a non-diesel bmw or vw there, even the 6-series.
it is hard for some of us to break free of the image of big smelly trucks and plug-in smelly cars.
j85968, you made some interesting comments, but i think a few are a bit off course.
they make good low end torque.
miles in a bmw 335d diesel in america: 1300
we’ve paid $2.69 a gallon for each of the last three tanks, while regular gas has varied from $2.23 to $2.49 a gallon and premium from $2.53 to $2.75 a gallon.
the hpfp issue is a biggie though, and could win many a 3 series fan to the 335d.
your fuel costs should rise then you may discover hi, i am from costa rica and i am a taxi driver, i have been driving for 25 years and my experience with diesel engines is very high.
it’d probably be more fuel efficient than my 6 cylinder, 5 speed 4wd tundra is (crappy performance, but 21-22 mpg).
after a legally-resident german-born photo assistant working for one of our freelance photographers was held in a cell for almost two hours at a border patrol checkpoint near the salton sea a few years back because he didn’t have his passport on him, mrs. mackenzie (a brit) and i (an australian) never travel anywhere in the us without our green cards.
did not believe in diesel until i got one!!!
you see, hybrids liketoyota’s prius or ford’s fusion do the  best work in stop-start city driving, where their gas engines shut down at  traffic lights, and their electric motors ease them up to speed again.
mrs. mackenzie  wants a glimpse of mexico, even though it’s dark.
you are correct about the diesel hybrid being the most efficient.
and to my recollection, the engineering was done, the manufacturing plant selection was done, it basically just needed a green light from headquarters.
the engine is a 2.4 liter 4 cylinder, can you think of anything better than that?
yeah, we know… the 358-mile tucson-to-yuma leg has returned our best mileage so far — an average of 34.1 mpg.
just as we’re turning onto the main road, i notice a set of headlights in the rear view mirror, maybe half a mile behind us.
before long  they’re close enough for me to id the vehicle as a tahoe, and just as  i’m wondering how long they’re going to tail me, the red-and-blues  flash.
white and green border patrol suvs lurk in the scrub, and we are  stopped at a checkpoint.
so  much so that i’m still struggling to understand why, of all the programs  cash-strapped gm had to cut, it chose to stop work on the new light duty  4.5-liter duramax v-8 diesel for the gmt900 pickups and suvs.
after a night in tucson, we head south, stopping at the historic san xavier  del bac, the oldest and best-preserved mission church in the southwest.
try buying a new prius for that.
do not ask me why and how is that possible
the open  two-lane is empty and diesel six growls quietly in the background as the blue  bmw crosses the vast landscape.
great article, mr. mackenzie.
driver and passenger are likely to need refueling first.
i drove a 1999 e55 amg for 8 years and love it.
using the 335d’s sat nav map, we drive down a road that looks to end right at the river’s edge.
whenever we see hybrids vehicle, nobody but nobody is saying what is or should be recycling policy for all those batteries.
yeah, we know… the 358-mile tucson-to-yuma leg has returned our best mileage so far  — an average of 34.1 mpg.
home » blogs » diesel in america: 1300
so actually the 25% gain is gas mileage would be offset by the increased price of diesal (about 18% more around here) in the us so drivers wouldn’t save that much in fuel costs… not enough to pay for the diesal motor.
although, coal/nuclear/electric vehicles could change this dynamic fairly soon.
the reality is that from a barrel of oil, using any refining process, we can get twice as much of gas then diesel fuel.
the cost savings on the diesel fuel are wiped out by the premium you pay on the onset.
hybrid drivetrains are just as much if not more expensive than diesels, (and much more complex) even accounting for the expensive exhaust treatment required to satisfy the epa’s ridiculous regulations.
that is around 680 miles!!!!
i believe there is a concept called time valu of money, a dollar spent now is worth more than a dollar spent in the future.
i’m sure a gmc yukon or cadillac escalade buyers would appreciate a clean-diesal option & be willing to pay 3-7k more rather than get the hybrid w battery that may need to be replaced.
the road curls around rugged rock formations and loops between giant  saguaro cacti.
remember this is a 3,800 pound car.
yuma also proved diesel fuel is more  consistently priced in arizona than gas.
before that we had all kind of cars raging from honda/toyota to porsche cayenne.
think about what crisis we could face 15-20 years from now when all those batteries go bad.
and the traffic is unlike anywhere else – rome, naples?
we call in for a coffee before pushing on toward san diego.
so sorry, good article but fails to state the obvious, you are better off in a 335i no matter which way you look at it.
agree with angus about how suitable are hybrids for city driving.
this is probably the best car i’ve ever owned.
gorluc: thanks for pointing that out… that’s what i suspected.
i think a diesal hybrid would be expensive to build, but that would be the most efficient hybrid.
(back in l.a. our initial  $2.99 a gallon tank of diesel cost $0.20 a gallon less than regular and $0.38 a  gallon less than premium.)
when you factor in the cost of batteries and the negative impact caused by the heavy metals in the batteries, diesel can often be a superior investment to environment conscience buyers.
the  haunting sound of the church organ mingles with jaunty mariachi music from a  nearby building, while the delicious aroma of tortillas on hotplates fills the  air.
and then at the end … i guess all those discussion whether “hybrid or diesel” … all those discussions are politically driven.
oh and i totally agree with himoses on the smackdown test idea.
the north-bound i-15 hits 4190 feet as it crests cajon pass en route to barstow and the junction with i-40, which will take us west to phoenix.
diesel engine is the way to go.
so why shut down a program that would have improved their all-round fuel-efficiency by 25 percent with a simple engine swap?
but many of the pickup truck base motors run on e85 now, & many locals in the midwest where pickups are particularly useful & e85 readily available like to support the local energy industry/economy.
let’s just say…it’s not.
and the 4.5l duramax should have been the base engine on the pickups, and large suv’s.
whilst its excellent some americans are beginning to see the benefits of the modern diesel if you drove a 2 litre bmw 3 series you would have got probably 55-60 miles per gallon.
after a night in tucson, we head south, stopping at the historic san xavier del bac, the oldest and best-preserved mission church in the southwest.
once of the pass, we loaf through the high desert, the engine turning a  relaxed 2000 rpm at 80 mph.
we pass roosevelt dam, built in 1911 to ensure a water supply for phoenix, and grab lunch on the old mining town of globe before heading west along route 60 to the junction with route 79, where we turn south towards tucson.
maybe gm product planners don’t believe diesel has a future in america; maybe they’re worried people won’t pay a premium for a diesel engine while gas prices remain low (though we have found places where diesel is cheaper than regular gas).
we get a better look at mexico as we roll along i-8 towards san diego.
it would be nice to see a diesel vs gasoline smackdown test.
winding two-lane blacktop takes us up into the lost dutchman state park, named after a rich gold mine supposedly found by prussian immigrant jacob waltz in the 1870s.
the us tax structure favors gas.
it doesn’t matter which road you take out of l.a.: you have to climb  up and over some fairly serious hills.
so why shut down a program that would have improved their all-round  fuel-efficiency by 25 percent with a simple engine swap?
what relevance does that have to powertrains?
and i got already 3 speeding tickets.
i’ve long been a proponent of diesel vehicles, and with ford and gm building clean units in europe, i find it hard to understand why they aren’t brought over.
had detroit had decent diesel engines they would use it in usa as well.
i barely even considered the jetta tdi because of the extra cost and my prior experiences with diesels.
the diesal’s mpg doesn’t even come close to the real world mileage of a prius in 90% of driving conditions.
it’s the desert view tower, built in the  early 20th century, and a survivor of an era when america’s highways were  dotted with unique and often oddball roadside attractions instead of identikit  gas stations and fast-food joints and cheap motels.
makes alot of sense for heavy duty vehicles in particular where a 25% gain in mpg can mean thousand of $ in savings.
it doesn’t matter which road you take out of l.a.: you have to climb up and over some fairly serious hills.
i do mostly city driving.
with really careful driving mixed mileage was 16 mpg.
the river slides by in the darkness below us; on the other side are  lights in the distance.
we need diesels and hybrid/diesels in the u.s. there is a whole market being missed by so many people who don’t sit in traffic all day all around the country.
we don’t agree on the significance of the hp though but hey the world is a better place since we are all different right:)
you see, hybrids liketoyota’s prius or ford’s fusion do the best work in stop-start city driving, where their gas engines shut down at traffic lights, and their electric motors ease them up to speed again.
diesels,  on the other hand, like cruising at constant velocities, where their highly  efficient combustion process allows them to extract the maximum energy out of  every gallon of fuel.
i see smaller cars in the usa but they still have large engines, what for?
there’s not a vehicle, a person, a light — anything — visible  on the us side of the river, but i can’t shake the sensation we’re  being watched.
they took assessment done by transportation authorities and convert it into that spot.
the 335d takes on 12.7 gallons of diesel next  morning in scottsdale, which means we’ve averaged 31.8 mpg for the 404  miles from l.a.
it’s the desert view tower, built in the early 20th century, and a survivor of an era when america’s highways were dotted with unique and often oddball roadside attractions instead of identikit gas stations and fast-food joints and cheap motels.
board computer never shows average speed below 73 mph!!!
the road curls around rugged rock formations and loops between giant saguaro cacti.
that, and 600+ miles per tank will convert many a 335i driver on a test drive, i think.
if only bmw put it in the 3 series or 5 series wagons for the us market… @pjphughes you are right, i had not considered the eco credit.
vw is working on one that has gotten 69mpg in real-world conditions.
we take it easy, wary of damaging the 335d’s low profile tires on the occasional rocky outcrops.
torque is your friend.
e39m, not sure what you mean about “chasing an image”, but i bought my hybrid for economical reasons
looking to give a jetta to my kids and i would buy new or used mb e class diesel or bmw.
it  grunts like a v-8 — shrugging off steep climbs and surging past  slow-moving traffic with the merest wriggle of your right foot — yet it  sips fuel almost like a four.
it would be a shame if detroit  missed this one, too.
audi to introduce diesel and hybrid q7 in 2008, says report 2011 chrysler 200 convertible alternatives to big family cars five most expensive repairs
the diesel revolution in america is beginning.
the old cressida has 875000 miles ( 1400000 km ) with the original engine without any mayor repair!
like a race with no rules.
folks that bash diesels probably have never driven one, i’d guess.
now i drive a 2006 e320 cdi and i cannot get under 25 mpg mixed!
i also do mostly city driving (95%).
got an old diesel powered volkswagen?
audi to introduce diesel and hybrid q7 in 2008, says report 31 comments
no, it’s not a 45mpg golf tdi, but i bought it for a combination of performance and efficiency.
it is known that insane dude inventor nicola tesla (yes company in ca is took his name) drove vehicle in 30′ last century from chicago to new york based on earth magnetic field!!!
todays smaller engines will do the same job as well and for much more mpg, the world i guess will still have to wait for the usa to find this out.
we take the long way to tucson, looping out and around the scenic apache  trail.
at one point, as the freeway snakes through the imperial dunes, we come within a quarter mile of the border.
it’d be the easiest sale a bmw salesman ever made.
the 335i makes 300hp so although you might get to 260hp fast, the 335i gets to 300hp pretty fast as well.
it would be a shame if detroit missed this one, too.
increased demand for diesel here would raise the price temporarily until the refineries adjusted their gas/diesel output % to accomodate.
we head along route 86, which loops down towards the mexican border and  through the tohono o’odham nation before turning north to join i-8 at  gila bend.
what i say to the california hybrid nuts is this.
“we’re on vacation,” i reply.
this car is way more fun to drive than my 335i.
not that i’m against clean air, but the way they’ve gone about regulating diesel emissions is absurd.
look at r&ts test (front page)..
this is a land  where the capability and functionality of a full-size pickup or suv makes a lot  of sense.
in the u.s., i drive an 80′s diesel mercedes as my “in town” car and won’t be happy when it dies someday, but know i’ll get a cleaner car with 50% better milage in what ever used mercedes i buy then.
the real winner coming to the usa is the mercedes benz c250 cdi with manual transmission (available right now in the uk and europe).
we just drove 1348 km in a brand new bmw 335d picked up through bmw’s european delivery program in munich.
there are even picture of that vehicle … that is fact that few know … rumor is that ford apparently bought the patent and holds it for future.
i was given a 335d as a loaner when i brought my m5 in for service and i thought it was terrific.
waltz apparently revealed the location of the mine —  reportedly deep in the superstition mountains — on his deathbed, but it  has never been found.
mrs. mackenzie wants a glimpse of mexico, even though it’s dark.
now, as per batteries, there is no legislation as of today in usa that car manufacturer must take the batteries for recycling.
and you have more torque than an m3 or a 740i.
agree 100% with what mackenzie said about the light duty 4.5l gm diesel.
as far as small cars a diesal cannot give the mileage of a dual-mode hybrid such as a prius while provide the same interior room.
his eyebrows arch:  “in yuma?!”
the open two-lane is empty and diesel six growls quietly in the background as the blue bmw crosses the vast landscape.
in the c class body this engine does 50 mpg!
after four days and 1304 miles on the  road, the bmw 335d has averaged 32 mpg without any special eco-driving.
the other point you are right on is the hpfp.
@j85968 audi did not come up by themselves and made that commercial.
my car’s engine is 6 cylinder and 3.2 liter and the new diesel is 2.2 liters, 4 cylinder with twin turbos.
before long they’re close enough for me to id the vehicle as a tahoe, and just as i’m wondering how long they’re going to tail me, the red-and-blues flash.
we’ve paid $2.69 a gallon for  each of the last three tanks, while regular gas has varied from $2.23 to $2.49  a gallon and premium from $2.53 to $2.75 a gallon.
so when audi talks about sending back millions of barrels of oil, is this false advertising?
i don’t think gm, ford, fiat, or toyota could sustain truck sales at current levels if they had to add $3-7000 (about 15-33% of msrp) to the base half-ton truck to replace the base engine with a 2010 emissions-compliant diesel.
but i bet you in few years from now, somebody will come with that process and make bil$ since supplies pf lithium are either limited or very expensive.