it all depends on whether you feel it is worth it or not.
what these people fail to  understand is that all the nutrients from the soil are in the crowns of the  trees!
once we change things by what we do, it is very hard, and very expensive to reverse trends.
as an inhabitant of earth, from your viewpoint it is probably considered to  be environmentally bad – the eruption injected millions of tons of fine  ash into the atmosphere, cutting out the sun’s rays and making breathing  difficult for many.
in fact, without volcanic eruptions and  weathering, the earth as we know it today wouldn’t exist.
it has  changedits environment many, many times, so when we  talk about changing the environment, what we’re talking about is changing our environment.
we have been dumping our sewage into the  oceans with nary a thought for the inhabitants of the sea.
doesn’t  seem much when you’re talking about yourself, but figuring in the other  6.5/7.0 billion people with an average lung capacity of 5 litres or  thereabouts, that’s an awful lot of co2 being emitted.
containers set out by well-meaning town councils in singapore for separation of materials are abused and filled with all sorts of rubbish by thoughtless, ignorant people.
so much for the environment.
having said all that, there is so much more that can be done, and should be  done to becoming environmentally friendlier than we are at present.
in other words, what surrounds you is your environment.
not unless you change your lifestyle completely - which you  won’t do - can you even remotely be classified as eco-friendly?
glass, plastic, aluminium, paper, cardboard – can all be separated out for recycling.
not unless you change your lifestyle completely - which you won’t do - can you even remotely be classified as eco-friendly?
water will always flow downhill, never up, trying to reach equilibrium.
so in reality you can’t claim that something is environmentally friendly unless you sum all of the polluting activities it goes through to get to the final product.
the production of petrol is a fairly  refined process, but its combustion products pollute the atmosphere, so does  that make it environmentally unfriendly?
however, the alterations it made are short-lived.
we are also changing the ecology by our behaviour.
so in reality you can’t claim that something is environmentally  friendly unless you sum all of the polluting activities it goes through to get  to the final product.
when a tree died, it fell to the ground, decayed and provided nourishment for the next cycle, but now we chop down the trees, drag them away to use them for firewood, fence posts and furniture without returning the nutrients to the soil.
containers set out  by well-meaning town councils in singapore for separation of materials are  abused and filled with all sorts of rubbish by thoughtless, ignorant people.
we are also changing the ecology by our  behaviour.
the result is that they only get one, or two growing  seasons out of the land before they have to chop down more trees.
the volcano also spewed out millions of cubic metres of new rock, rock rich in minerals that will assist in the growing of vegetation and such like.
if it  had been really bad, it could have blocked out the sun for an extended period  of time bringing on an ice age.
are you  eco-friendly?
please make a donation to help sustain this publication.
but you cannot compare an electric car to a  petrol engine or diesel engine car simply by its emission levels into the  environment.
the long-term effects are negligible.
according to encyclopaedia britannica ‘environment’ is a complex of physical, chemical and biological factors that affect an organism or an ecological community thereby determining its form, and survival.
but the earth survives.
the volcano also spewed out millions of cubic metres of new rock,  rock rich in minerals that will assist in the growing of vegetation and such  like.
it definitely altered your environment considerably.
it is active, forever changing, depending on a whole range  of variables.
first, let’s define ‘environment’ and
according to encyclopaedia britannica  ‘environment’ is a complex of physical, chemical and biological  factors that affect an organism or an ecological community thereby determining  its form, and survival.
glass, plastic, aluminium, paper, cardboard – can  all be separated out for recycling.
no matter what you say, my  guess is that you do neither.
downloading without paying is stealing.
first, let’s define ‘environment’ and ‘ecology’.
and yet, they are the first to squeal when the council doesn’t collect garbage from their front door every morning!
ecology, on the other hand, is the conditions caused by organisms on their environment.
do you  throw away garbage?
the question is, was it environmentally  good, or bad?
as an inhabitant of earth, from your viewpoint it is probably considered to be environmentally bad – the eruption injected millions of tons of fine ash into the atmosphere, cutting out the sun’s rays and making breathing difficult for many.
the production of petrol is a fairly refined process, but its combustion products pollute the atmosphere, so does that make it environmentally unfriendly?
long ago, the earth was hotter, wetter and covered by dense vegetation but man began to show his domination and, to provide room for growing his food, chopped down the trees.
the big question is –can we survive within those limits?
the recent eruption of an icelandic volcano with the almost unpronounceable name ofeyjafjallajökull made a considerable impact on our environment, both locally and globally.
are you environmentally friendly?
and yet, they are the first to squeal when the council doesn’t collect  garbage from their front door every morning!
the soil becomes dried and powdery with no roots to hold it together then, when it rains, gets washed down into the rivers, blocking dams, overflowing river banks – causing landslides and killing people.
the box might be  sitting on the beach, in the middle of a field, on top of a mountain, or any  one of a million or more places, but your environment is constrained by the  bottom, four walls and the top of that box.
do you protect the ecology?
well, that all depends on the viewpoint from where you are observing its effects.
we have been pumping massive quantities of combustion exhaust gases and other volatile substances into the atmosphere for at least the last 300 years, since the industrial revolution.
why go to all that trouble when there’s another  6.999999999 billion people who don’t?
like all live  systems, the earth will do its best to achieve equilibrium, i.e., the least  energy demanding state.
water will always flow downhill, never up, trying to  reach equilibrium.
the  hydrogen comes from basically the same refining process as the petrol, the  electricity to charge the battery most likely is made by power stations that  burn oil, natural gas or coal and what is environmentally friendly about any of  them?
what these people fail to understand is that all the nutrients from the soil are in the crowns of the trees!
the long-term effects are  negligible.
it is active, forever changing, depending on a whole range of variables.
or is it ecologically friendly? monday, october 18, 2010 at 11:29pm by george h croy author of the energy  trail – where is it leading?
what about the environment?
ecology, on the other hand, is the conditions caused by organisms on their  environment.
it’s a comparative study.
it all depends on whether you feel it is  worth it or not.
these factors include the atmosphere, climate,  continental landform, the hydrosphere (the water ecosystem of planet earth) and  the oceans.
it is all relative, and not very meaningful in most cases.
we have been pumping massive quantities of combustion exhaust gases and  other volatile substances into the atmosphere for at least the last 300 years,  since the industrial revolution.
our tolerance is much finer than that of the earth, we are but a minute or so in its twenty-four hour lifespan.
when a tree died, it fell to the ground, decayed and provided  nourishment for the next cycle, but now we chop down the trees, drag them away  to use them for firewood, fence posts and furniture without returning the  nutrients to the soil.
as i said  before, the earth will survive.
we have been dumping our sewage into the oceans with nary a thought for the inhabitants of the sea.
old clothes, newspapers, everyday cast-offs?
you have to begin at the mining for the iron ore or aluminium ore,  the drilling for the oil and gas which goes to the making of the plastics that  will be made into the vehicle – up until it sits in the showroom a hybrid  or petrol driven vehicle has exactly the same environmental impact!
look at hawaii - it consists of a chain of lush, tropical islands, made  entirely by volcanic eruption.
if you answer yes to even one of  these, then you’re not being eco-friendly.
the effect on the land is even more devastating.
if you can imagine yourself enclosed within a big box - bottom, top and  four sides – the inside of that box is your environment.
all earth’s systems will try their best to reach that condition.
empty drinks bottles?
why go to all that trouble when there’s another 6.999999999 billion people who don’t?
if you can imagine yourself enclosed within a big box - bottom, top and four sides – the inside of that box is your environment.
well, that all depends on the viewpoint from where you are  observing its effects.
the question is, why should it care?
we see advertisements daily about such and such a car – hybrids - environment friendly, because they run on electricity and/or hydrogen.
the box might be sitting on the beach, in the middle of a field, on top of a mountain, or any one of a million or more places, but your environment is constrained by the bottom, four walls and the top of that box.
so is the  eruption good or bad?
the question is, will we be able to live under that set of  conditions?
do you throw away garbage?
even you are not particularly environmentally friendly when you consider  you are breathing in oxygen and breathing out carbon dioxide.
what about the hybrid car?
having said all that, there is so much more that can be done, and should be done to becoming environmentally friendlier than we are at present.
if it had been really bad, it could have blocked out the sun for an extended period of time bringing on an ice age.
look at hawaii - it consists of a chain of lush, tropical islands, made entirely by volcanic eruption.
as i said before, the earth will survive.
it is still being done in parts of the world even as  you read this – slash and burn cultivation.
tweettweet view printer friendly version notify me of follow-up comments via email.
in other words, what surrounds you  is your environment.
but you cannot compare an electric car to a petrol engine or diesel engine car simply by its emission levels into the environment.
do you separate your trash?
and there is the problem –  i’ll do it if you do it.
it is still being done in parts of the world even as you read this – slash and burn cultivation.
are you eco-friendly?
if you answer yes to even one of these, then you’re not being eco-friendly.
like all live systems, the earth will do its best to achieve equilibrium, i.e., the least energy demanding state.
by george h croy author of the energy trail – where is it leading? are you environmentally friendly?
these factors include the atmosphere, climate, continental landform, the hydrosphere (the water ecosystem of planet earth) and the oceans.
the question is who starts?
it has changedits environment many, many times, so when we talk about changing the environment, what we’re talking about is changing our environment.
even flashy looking hybrids consume loads of energy to make.
even you are not particularly environmentally friendly when you consider you are breathing in oxygen and breathing out carbon dioxide.
do you  separate your trash?
so, many changes will have to be made before you can even consider calling yourself eco-friendly.
unlike the environment, to which, by our behaviour we can make substantial changes, ecology is not a reversible system.
scuba adventures in thailand & komodo resort chain in vietnam & cambodia definitive collection of eco-lodges of the world responsible, ethical travel guide launched!take action
old  clothes, newspapers, everyday cast-offs?
today, there is a lot of hype about being eco-friendly or environment  friendly.
the big  question is –can we survive within those limits?
so is the eruption good or bad?
things like increasing populations, food scarcity, pollution of  the environment, global warming - extinctions, both of plant and animal species  - are all ecological, i.e., affecting the ecology.
the result is that they only get one, or two growing seasons out of the land before they have to chop down more trees.
so, many changes will have to be made before you can even consider calling  yourself eco-friendly.
we see advertisements daily  about such and such a car – hybrids - environment friendly, because they  run on electricity and/or hydrogen.
our tolerance  is much finer than that of the earth, we are but a minute or so in its  twenty-four hour lifespan.
the hydrogen comes from basically the same refining process as the petrol, the electricity to charge the battery most likely is made by power stations that burn oil, natural gas or coal and what is environmentally friendly about any of them?
today, there is a lot of hype about being eco-friendly or environment friendly.
they took hundreds of years in many cases to reach the sizes they are today.
you can only compare one similar product to another and classify one of them through your findings as being environmentally friendlier than the other.
in fact, without volcanic eruptions and weathering, the earth as we know it today wouldn’t exist.
« tips to reduce energy consumption  | main | get real with the  10rs of true eco living » monday environmentally friendly?
doesn’t seem much when you’re talking about yourself, but figuring in the other 6.5/7.0 billion people with an average lung capacity of 5 litres or thereabouts, that’s an awful lot of co2 being emitted.
all earth’s systems will try their best to reach  that condition.
but the earth  survives.
if you'd like to use a photo, contact editor for permission and rates.
the question is, was it environmentally good, or bad?
long ago, the earth was hotter, wetter and covered by dense vegetation but  man began to show his domination and, to provide room for growing his food,  chopped down the trees.
the soil becomes dried and  powdery with no roots to hold it together then, when it rains, gets washed down  into the rivers, blocking dams, overflowing river banks – causing  landslides and killing people.
you can only compare one similar product to another and  classify one of them through your findings as being environmentally friendlier than the other.
the earth is more than 4.5 billion years old.
and there is the problem – i’ll do it if you do it.
you have to begin at the mining for the iron ore or aluminium ore, the drilling for the oil and gas which goes to the making of the plastics that will be made into the vehicle – up until it sits in the showroom a hybrid or petrol driven vehicle has exactly the same environmental impact!
the question is, will we?
unlike the environment, to which, by our behaviour we can make  substantial changes, ecology is not a reversible system.
but it doesn’t stop there.
no matter what you say, my guess is that you do neither.
and it will continue for as  long as the global population continues to rise.
it just moves the equilibrium line left or right accordingly.
the recent eruption of an icelandic volcano with the almost unpronounceable  name ofeyjafjallajökull made a considerable impact on our  environment, both locally and globally.
things like increasing populations, food scarcity, pollution of the environment, global warming - extinctions, both of plant and animal species - are all ecological, i.e., affecting the ecology.
in present-day lifestyle it is very difficult.
and it will continue for as long as the global population continues to rise.
they took hundreds of years in many cases to reach the sizes they are  today.
once we change things  by what we do, it is very hard, and very expensive to reverse trends.
the question is, will we be able to live under that set of conditions?