monday, august 15th, 2011
no comments » vw tdi spotter’s guide tuesday, november 8th, 2011 the 2010 tdi cup edition—perhaps the sportiest tdi to roll off the vw  assembly line.
which ones to consider and why with no end in sight to the high price of fuel, many people are rethinking  their daily drivers.
and while hybrid and electric cars may be all the rage  among the hollywood elite and the tree-huggers, it is very easy to see that  these cars are not the environmentally friendly solution that many people  believe they are—since it will take more pollution-spewing powerplants to  charge the things.(more…) tags: diesel, kelly blue book, mf automotive, tdi club, volkswagen of  america, vw, vw tdi posted in vw tdi |
so, why can’t you have your  diesel cake and eat it too?
the problem is bad enough that some diesel enthusiasts are considering selling their diesel trucks in favor of smaller and more economical daily drivers.
we specifically purchased a manual transmission-equipped tdi for the strength and reliability over their automatic counterparts, but that doesn’t mean there is no room for improvement.
no comments » is there inappropriate content on this page?
login / sign up motortopia > diesel world > vw tdi the sigma short shift kit from dieselgeek.com is a billet aluminum replacement for the stock shifter.
the sigma short shift kit from dieselgeek.com is a billet aluminum  replacement for the stock shifter.
the latest project vehicle in the diesel world stable is this ultraclean  2006 vw jetta tdi.
to many vw drivers (including us), the long shift throws from the factory setup seem like they would be better suited for a domestic truck than a german sport sedan.
so, why can’t you have your diesel cake and eat it too?
and while hybrid and electric cars may be all the rage among the hollywood elite and the tree-huggers, it is very easy to see that these cars are not the environmentally friendly solution that many people believe they are—since it will take more pollution-spewing powerplants to charge the things.(more…) tags: diesel, kelly blue book, mf automotive, tdi club, volkswagen of america, vw, vw tdi
(more…) tags: clutches, diesel geek, south bend clutch, vw tdi posted in tech,  vw tdi |
you can.(more…) tags: diesel, jetta, tdi turbo diesel, vw, vw tdi posted in vw tdi |  no comments » search diesel world
no comments » project tdi
no comments » the latest project vehicle in the diesel world stable is this ultraclean 2006 vw jetta tdi.
to many vw drivers  (including us), the long shift throws from the factory setup seem like they  would be better suited for a domestic truck than a german sport sedan.
you can.(more…) tags: diesel, jetta, tdi turbo diesel, vw, vw tdi posted in vw tdi |
we specifically purchased a manual transmission-equipped tdi for the  strength and reliability over their automatic counterparts, but that  doesn’t mean there is no room for improvement.
buying a used tdi for fun and mpgs many of us realize that fuel prices will likely never drop back down to  levels we’ve enjoyed in the past.
many of us realize that fuel prices will likely never drop back down to levels we’ve enjoyed in the past.
motortopia > diesel world > vw tdi diesel world power-holding and gear-banging improvements thursday, january 12th,  2012
which ones to consider and why with no end in sight to the high price of fuel, many people are rethinking their daily drivers.
about | faq | jobs | terms of use | privacy | press | contact us | promote us!
the problem is bad enough that some  diesel enthusiasts are considering selling their diesel trucks in favor of  smaller and more economical daily drivers.
motortopia will not provide your e-mail address or other personal information to any third party organization.
(more…) tags: clutches, diesel geek, south bend clutch, vw tdi posted in tech, vw tdi | no comments » the 2010 tdi cup edition—perhaps the sportiest tdi to roll off the vw assembly line.
copyright © 2010 motortopia