the login panel is in the bottom right corner of the site.
stefan jacoby,  president and ceo of volvo cars said: "the technology is still undergoing  development and testing, however, the car already points very clearly to what  our customers can expect when the plug-in hybrid enters showrooms next  year.
the hybrid offers carbon dioxide emissions below 50 g/km,  volvo claims, and will be launched in the market in 2012.
the car, which is a modified volvo v60,  features a range of up to 32 miles, 215 + 70 horsepower, 440 + 200 nm of torque  and acceleration from 0 to 62 mph of just 6.9 seconds.
" "what we've done is to spice it up with spearhead  technology that allows the driver to choose: zero emissions, high-efficiency  hybrid or full-on performance.
the login panel  is in the bottom right corner of the site.
stefan jacoby, president and ceo of volvo cars said: "the technology is still undergoing development and testing, however, the car already points very clearly to what our customers can expect when the plug-in hybrid enters showrooms next year." "what we've done is to spice it up with spearhead technology that allows the driver to choose: zero emissions, high-efficiency hybrid or full-on performance." further information: volvo please register or login to post comments.
" further information: volvo please register or login to post comments.
the plug-in  hybrid is the result of close co-operation between volvo cars and swedish  energy supplier vattenfall.
volvo will be unveiling what it claims is the world's first diesel plug in hybrid.
the hybrid offers carbon dioxide emissions below 50 g/km, volvo claims, and will be launched in the market in 2012.
jcomments you are  here:   homenewsmotoringvolvo unveils world's first diesel plug-in  hybrid about greenfleet
your browser does not support javascript!
please enable it for maximum experience.
the plug-in hybrid is the result of close co-operation between volvo cars and swedish energy supplier vattenfall.
volvo unveils world's first diesel plug-in hybrid volvo will be unveiling what it claims is the world's first diesel plug in  hybrid.
the car, which is a modified volvo v60, features a range of up to 32 miles, 215 + 70 horsepower, 440 + 200 nm of torque and acceleration from 0 to 62 mph of just 6.9 seconds.