enova systems, inc. (nyse amex: ena and aim: env and envs), a leading developer of proprietary hybrid electric and all-electric drive systems and drive system components for the emerging green commercial vehicle market is pleased to announce that one of the first pre- production vehicles resulting from enova’s and freightliner custom chassis corp’s (fccc) recently announced green for freeâ¢ initiative (www.greenforfree.com) will be on display at the portland international auto show january 26-29th.
at this year’s  conference, sector experts will lead a range of breakout sessions to explore  key industry themes, drivers and constraints, as well as forward-looking trends.
for further information, visit the freightliner custom chassis corporation website at www.freightlinerchassis.com additional information: this news release contains forward-looking statements relating to enova systems and its products that are intended to be covered by the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by the private securities litigation reform act of 1995.
zero emissions without sacrificing performance the new all-electric chassis enables fleet operators to eliminate harmful  emissions and cut operating and maintenance costs while delivering the  performance and driver comfort featuresfccc customers have come to expect.
on a full charge it has a range of around 110-130 kilometers depending on load factors and topography.
as part of the contract, enova will supply enova ze all-electric walk-in step vans togsa with a gvwr between 10,001 and 16,000 lbs.
“collaborating with freightliner custom chassis corporation has enabled us to achieve our shared goal of introducing all-electric drive technology into the walk-in van market,” said mike staran, president and ceo of enova systems.
the smith newton is an exclusive, all-electric medium and heavy duty truck offering on thegsa product menu.
for 12, 14, and 16  foot body lengths.
“deloitte recognizes enova systems for its remarkable accomplishment.”
with the enova hybrid system components, the jiefang bus meets euroiii emission standards, consumes only 7.84 miles per gallon, and achieves a reduction of 20 percent in harmful emissions.
enova continues to execute on its strategic plan which includes our efforts to move towards profitability via margin growth from current products and the planned launch of our next generation omni product line.
further to the introduction,fccc cites an industry-leading 3-4 year payback.
energy independence from foreign sources of oil.
a more thorough discussion of our short-term liquidity and capital needs is set forth in our form 10-q for the quarter ending june 30, 2011.
the enova drive system is integrated and branded under the name of jiefang ca6120urh hybrid.
enova systems ceo mike staran commented, “enova’s continued supply of product tofaw solidifies enova as a tier one production supplier of unique clean vehicle solutions, capable of serving the largest vehicle oem’s in the world.”
for more information contact enova systems electric vehicle hotline at 1-310-527-2800 ext 135.
sponsored by mccoy freightliner, the conference will look at electrification, natural gas, propane, biodiesel & infrastructure.
the all-electric mt-45 chassis is expected to go into full production  during the first quarter of 2011 and will undergo testing with major u.s.  pickup and delivery fleets.
“the vehicle development process with freightliner custom chassis has been fantastic,” said steve miller, vice president of sales and marketing for morgan olson.
ideal application for commercial trucks with depot-based drive cycles and stop-and-go driving conditions.
the companies signed a non-exclusive letter of intent on june 30.
on select delivery and service routes, studies show that customers will save up to $15,000 per vehicle annually compared with traditionally powered walk-in vans.
power-source agnostic, the new omni-series inverter also offers increased flexibility and ease-of-integration.
the all-electric drive system features battery packs that provides an up to 100-mile driving range on a single charge, making it ideal for pickup and delivery applications.
the mt-ev has a flat-leaf spring front and rear suspension, allowing for a smooth, solid ride that minimizes cargo shifts on uneven road surfaces.
“the new design was engineered to allow for improved aerodynamics without giving up the functionality of the vehicle.
along with aggressive pursuit of north american opportunities, the company highlights expanding their market via china southern rail corporation limited ( csr), and a major united kingdom (uk) based oem.
many government officials are expected to attend the event, including the deputy assistant secretary of the air force for energy, the commander of theusaf space & missile systems center,gsa leadership, the commander of the 61st air base group and the special assistant to the assistant secretary for installations, environment and logistics.
us government and enova continue comprehensive discussions regarding government interest in deployment of alternate fuel vehicles.
tel: 310-527-2800 contact: john micek, cfo/investor relations additional information: this news release contains forward-looking statements relating to enova systems and its products that are intended to be covered by the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by the private securities litigation reform act of 1995.
in california, for example, strict diesel emissions on trucks will start to kick in by 2013.
for further information, contact enova systems directly, or visit our web site at: www.greenforfree.com.
after the success and interest generated with both the public and fleet operators during the green vehicle transportation conference, the portland international auto show, and a ride and drive event in washington state, thegff all electric delivery walk in van will be on display and available to drive at the golden gate truck center in oakland, ca on february 7th and 8th, followed by an exhibition at velocity vehicle group’s los angeles freightliner truck center in fontana, ca, from february 13th to feb 17th.
addressing the discussion in the industry surrounding recent federal  funding for all-electric technology, jonathan randall, sales and marketing  director atfccc added, “fccc initiated our all-electric project
with its improved efficiencies, this innovative new technology has the potential for faster, wider deployment in the commercial truck and bus fleet market around the world,” said enovacoo john mullins.
highlights of the march 31, 2010 10-q: about enova: enova systems (http://www.enovasystems.com) is a leading supplier of efficient, environmentally friendly digital power components and systems products.
enova and freightliner have had numerous discussions with the us government and plan to participate in all related activities and opportunities.
august 23, 2011 august 24, 2011 torrance, ca august, 2011 â enova systems, inc. (nyse amex: ena and aim: env and envs), a leading developer of proprietary hybrid electric and all-electric drive systems and drive system components for the emerging green commercial vehicle market, has filed a shelf registration statement on form s-3 with the securities and exchange commission (“sec”).
west 190th street, torrance, ca 90501
for further information, contact enova systems directly,  or visit www.enovasystems.com.
for more information about the 2010edta conference, visit  www.electricdrive.org.
the new inverter’s smaller size and higher power translate into a significantly improved value proposition for customers.
we anticipate continued penetration and are pleased to be part of smith’s strategy“.
customers are realizing that the potential for a value proposition does in fact exist and appear to be eager to participate.”
“we are committed  to developing new chassis that offer a superior level of comfort, reliability,  performance and durability that our customers need from their vehicles, while  also manufacturing products that are environmentally responsible.”
enova president andceo mike staran stated, “with many of our suppliers and competitors facing insolvency and other crisis-type issues, we are encouraged with the announced initiatives we have made in extremely difficult market conditions.
these and other risks and uncertainties are detailed from time to time in enova systems’ periodic filings with the securities and exchange commission, including but not limited to enova’s annual report on form 10-k for the year ended december 31, 2010 and most recent form 10-q for the fiscal quarter ended september 30, 2011 october 20, 2011 torrance, california, october 20, 2011 enova systems.
“it’s often a deal-killer.”
us government and enova have had recent comprehensive discussions regarding government interest in deployment of alternate fuel vehicles.
csr is approved by the state-owned assets supervision and administration commission of the state council co-founded by china south locomotive and rolling stock industry group corporation and beijing railway industry economic and trade company with a total equity capital of $7 billionusd .csr was established in december 2007 with sixteen (16) fully funded holding companies and over 80,000 employees distributed in 10 provinces and cities around the country.
fccc viewed the all-electric project as the logical next step in its alternative-power product offerings, as well as a strategic opportunity to continue its leadership role in thewiv industry.”
enova applies unique  “enabling technologies” in the areas of alternative energy  propulsion systems for light and heavy-duty vehicles as well as power  conditioning and management systems for distributed generation systems.
tel: 310-527-2800 additional information: this news release contains forward-looking statements relating to enova systems and its products that are intended to be covered by the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by the private securities litigation reform act of 1995.
in business for over 100 years, today remy international is actively collaborating with companies throughout the world to develop innovations that are transforming the vehicle industry.
the center is  the worldwide hub for daimler’s hybrid development.
these statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as “believe,” “expect,” “may,” “will,” “should,’‘ “could,” “project,” “plan,’‘ “seek,” “intend,’‘ or “anticipate’‘ or the negative thereof or comparable terminology and statements about industry trends and enova’s future performance, operations and products.
enova systems, inc. (nyse: ena and aim: env and envs), a leading innovator of proprietary hybrid and electric drive systems propelling the alternative energy industry, is pleased to congratulateoem partner, freightliner custom chassis corporation (fccc), on the unveiling of their enova-powered all-electric walk-in van (wiv) at today’s 2010 hybrid truck users forum (htuf).
following the edta conference, enova will present at the cleanequity monaco 2010 conference, held march 4 – 5, 2010 at the le sporting d’hiver, place du casino in the principality of monaco.
such recognition  will allow us to further expand the penetration of our drive system technology  into government fleets as they consider their options in meeting president  obama’s order.”
for further information, visit the freightliner custom chassis corporation website at www.freightlinerchassis.com.
enova will be joining a panel of industry experts on wednesday, january 27, as they address the advantages and recent breakthroughs in deploying zero-emission drive system technology in commercial trucks.
it is completely traffic compatible, with good acceleration and hill climbing capabilities and a top speed of up to 90 km/hour.
the mt-ev remains a rugged, productive work tool that also maintains maximum cargo capacity.”
“by partnering with morgan olson, we have effectively developed the mt-evwiv to meet performance, as well as environmental needs of our delivery vehicle customers,” randall said.
both navistar, who claims 61% of the school bus market in north america, and enova, believe that this initial deployment is a critical next step in the evolution of the hybrid school bus program towards long term production volume.
the solo ev has been designed to perform exactly like a standard diesel powered bus, except that it is smoother, quieter and cleaner.
htuf is the nation’s leading program driving production and use of medium and heavy-duty hybrid and high-efficiency trucks and buses.
enova also has strengthened its management team by announcing john micek as chief financial officer effective as of january 1, 2011.
along with the all-electric chassis, fccc has extensive experience manufacturing compressed natural gas (cng) wiv chassis, currently manufactures hybrid-electric vehicle (hev) chassis and will offer full production of the hydraulic hybrid vehicle (hhv) chassis in q4 2010 for the walk-in van market segment.
we continue to pave the way towards zero emissions commercial transportation and solidifying our position as a technology leader in this nascent government market,” says john mullins, enova’s chief operating officer.
advantages of the ze drive system technology include: - ease of use, with none of the maintenance requirements associated with gasoline drive trains.
about remy: remy international traces its origins to 1896 when the remy brothers founded a wiring business in anderson, indiana.
about deloitte’s 2011
“our partner fccc is taking a leading role in reducing harmful emissions and fleet operating costs now and in the years ahead,” explained staran.
august 11, 2010 torrance, ca august 11, 2010 â enova systems, inc. (nyse amex: ena and aim: env and envs), a production company in an emerging industry and a leading developer of proprietary electric, hybrid and fuel cell digital power management systems, today announced financial results for its second quarter of fiscal year 2010 and noted positive highlights for the year.
the all-electric drive system features battery packs that provides an up to  100-mile driving range on a single charge, making it ideal for pickup and  delivery applications.
as part of thentea alternative fuel ride-and-drive program, attendees will be able to drive the ze on a 2-mile route outside the america’s center.
we currently are awaiting fccc’s decision on battery selection for this high volume initiative.
it’s buses operate in the uk, continental europe, and north america.
so the deals enova has announced haven’t led to as many sales of drivetrains as projected.
it certainly has become a valuable addition to their fleet.”
another major enova customer, navistar continues its exclusive gsa contract to supply hybrid school buses.
“our next-generation omni-series products firmly establishes enova as the leader in designing and supplying core power electronics components that drive clean commercial vehicles,” addedcoo mullins.
fccc’s all-electric chassis is built upon thefccc mt-45 chassis â known for its durability andgvwr of 14,000 to 19,500 lbs.
enova systems is fulfilling orders of its  drive system to smith electric vehicles for both the uk and us initiatives,  with shipments scheduled in 2010 in anticipation of orders for the smith newton.
omni dc/dc converter.
“fccc is proud to continue to play an important role in  daimler’s global initiative,” said randall.
the company licenses its proprietary technology from the smith electric vehicles business in the u.k., the world’s largest manufacturer and industry leader of commercial electric vehicles.
mike staran, enova president and ceo, said “we are extremely pleased with the response this initiative is receiving.
“i can’t tell you how many times we’ve talked with potential end-use customers and they ask, âyou mean, if we buy an electric truck, we will have to replace the batteries three or four times?’”
enova applies unique ‘enabling technologies’ in the areas of alternative energy propulsion systems for light and heavy-duty vehicles as well as power conditioning and management systems for distributed generation systems.
tel: 310-527-2800 contact: jarett fenton cfo/investor relations additional information: this news release contains forward-looking statements relating to enova systems and its products that are intended to be covered by the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by the private securities litigation reform act of 1995.
in its second year as one of the largest eco centers in the nation, visitors will be able to find out more about the latest technology in vehicle charging, solar power and a large range of electric and electric hybrids and alternative fuel vehicles.
for  further information, contact the enova systemsgsa hotline directly at (310)  527-2800 ext.
more than 500 electric drive industry professionals are expected to attend to take advantage of idea and best practice sharing in each of many workshops and breakout sessions including numerous opportunities to network.
with more than 2,500 drive systems sold, deployed and integrated, enova’s clean electric and hybrid electric vehicle technologies are powering fleets around the globe.
mike staran,ceo and john mullins, coo highlighted the retrofit, in a post-transmission parallel hybrid configuration, to key personnel like colonel michael holl, director support equipment and vehicles division, robins air force base, ga.
135, or visit www.enovasystems.com.
whenever we collaborate, we seek innovative companies like enova that are dedicated to reliability, quality and the customer.”
street torrance, ca 90501
this deployment represents the initial large scale utilization of us department of energy grants for clean school buses.
we look forward to partnering with them as they rapidly move to production,” said enovaceo and president mike staran.
these statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as “believe,” “expect,” “may,” “will,” “should,” “could,” “project,” “plan,” “seek,” “intend,” or “anticipate” or the negative thereof or comparable terminology and statements about industry trends and enova’s future performance, operations and products.
optare designs, manufactures and sells single deck and double deck buses and mini coaches.
design has begun on a stand-alone omni-series dc/dc converter operating at the higher power levels required for large electric vehicles.
cleanequity monaco assists emerging clean technology companies like enova in accelerating the commercialization of their technologies, by connecting them to key players from the investment, political, industry and media communities.
additionally, the project looks to focus on disciplined duty cycles, utilizing 80 percent of the battery daily, versus design for extended range.
that day is coming, but i am focused on the next year.’
having committed to continue trading its ordinary shares on aim, the company is pleased to announce the appointment of daniel stewart & company (“daniel stewart”) as its nominated adviser and broker with immediate effect.
from 2000 to the present , mr. micek has been the managing director of silicon prairie partners, lp, a palo alto, california-based venture fund, where he led spp’s investments into medivation (nasdaq:mdvn), puda coal (amex: puda), web reservations limited (acquired by h&f limited) and scout media (acquired by fox interactive media).
the gross proceeds to the company from the financing were $1,687,500.
about smith electric vehicles u.s. corporation smith electric vehicles u.s. corporation (www.sev-us.com), a delaware corporation, is an all-electric zero- emissions commercial truck manufacturer.
for further information, contact enova systems directly, or visit www.enovasystems.com.
contact: jarett fenton cfo/investor relations additional information: this news release contains forward-looking  statements relating to enova systems and its products that are intended to be  covered by the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by the  private securities litigation reform act of 1995.
the webcast can be found at http://bit.ly/wbsmru and will be archived for 90 days following the live presentation.
about freightliner custom chassis freightliner custom chassis corporation manufactures premium chassis for  the motor-home, delivery walk-in van, and school bus and shuttle bus markets.
enova has shipped systems to optare that are currently being integrated into buses.
no securities covered by the registration statement may be sold prior to its effectiveness, nor may offers to buy those securities be accepted before that time, and no securities will be offered unless and until enova determines to proceed with an offering.
enova has continued to aggressively pursue new technologies, partnerships and opportunities to expand the clean vehicle market.
staran added, “the increased commitment from our customers and suppliers combined with our steady improvement in margins displays the necessary upward trend that has been anticipated.”
may 26, 2010 torrance, ca – may 26, 2010 – enova systems, inc (nyse amex: ena andaim: env and envs), a leading innovator of propriety hybrid and electric drive systems, confirmed today that they, along with navistar international corporation (nyse: nav) and its subsidiary ic bus, will deploy 16 hybrid school buses used for a number of school districts.
www.htuf.org freightliner custom chassis corporation manufactures premium chassis for the motorhome, delivery walk-in van, and school bus and shuttle bus markets.
enova chief financial officer john micek said, “with consistent, positive margin quarters and recurring core customer revenue, our management team has started entertaining preparations for conference calls to discuss financial results.”
other features include a parking pawl within the gear box and a push-button shifter for improved efficiency.
this new program demonstrates thatfccc  remains fully committed to engineering chassis options that lower operating  costs and decrease carbon footprints for our customers”.
staran believes that progressing the commercial market will eventually result in the practices filtering down to the rest of the transport sector.
electric and hybrid-electric trucks and buses have until very recently been a small market, populated mostly by “early adopters.”
in the past three years, the company has signed contracts with navistar international corp., one of the world’s largest truck and bus manufacturers in warrensville, ill.; first auto works, one of china’s largest vehicle manufacturers; and smith electric vehicles, a long-established british company that recently entered the u.s. market.
the development program with enova involved the engineering and integration  of enova’s 120kw all-electric drive system technology into the new mt-45  chassis.
launched in stuttgart, germany, by daimler in 2007, the initiative is focused on reducing category emissions pollutants, carbon dioxide and fuel consumption.
in august 2008, daimler announced the opening of the global hybrid center  at mitsubishi fuso truck and bus corporation in kawasaki, japan.
expecting to further drive revenues, enova will continue to ship systems to fill incremental navistar,sev, faw, and fccc orders.
retrofits can help the usaf meet u.s. department of energy (doe) federal energy management program (femp)
- ideal application for vehicles with a regular driving route that involves stop-and-go driving conditions.
lg chem clients include general motors co., volvo ab, ford motor co., renault, eaton, navistar and china’s chongqing changan automobile co.
with global operations across four continents and 10 countries, remy international markets products under the remy® and delco remy® trademarks.
recently, remy international was recognized by the united states department of energy for its leadership role in the hybrid technologies space and awarded a $60 million grant under the electric drive vehicle battery and component manufacturing initiative.
its buses operate in the uk, continental europe, and north america.
smith’s vehicle designs leverage more than 80 years of market knowledge from selling and servicing electric vehicles in the united kingdom.
the combined technologies will also offer strong value and performance to the end user.
smith has deployed several hundred vehicles utilizing enova’s electric drive system.
the all-electric chassis also was initiated before stimulus money and federal grants were available for alternative-fuel transportation projects.
we also provide capital raising, advisory, and m&a services.
john, also a board member, most recently served as the board’s chairman of the audit committee.
morgan olson, llc builds walk-in van bodies, parcel van bodies, and dry freight van bodies for the package delivery, baking, textile rental and industrial service markets.
but one of the few outside analysts who cover the company isn’t as optimistic.
other features include a parking pawl within the gear box and a push-button  shifter for improved efficiency.
for further information: enova systems, inc 1-310-527-2800 mike staran, president and chief executive officer john micek, chief financial officer about enova: enova systems (http://www.enovasystems.com) is a leading supplier of efficient, environmentally friendly digital power components and systems products.
it certainly has become a valuable  addition to their fleet.”
we also saw indications that businesses were again ready to engage green procurement efforts akin to the period before the economic landscape soured in 2007.”
the order for 50 enova 120kw drive systems is on track to culminate in a total order of over 250 by year end.
also participating in the conference is key enova customer smith electric  vehicles us, which will feature enova’s 120 kw all-electric drive train  and on-board charging technology in their smith newton commercial delivery  trucks.
fccc is the first company within the industry to utilize tesla batteries for commercial applications.
for further information, contact enova systems directly, or visit our web sites at www.enovasystems.com enova systems, inc. 1560
january 24, 2012 torrance, ca january 24, 2012 â
“as outlined in today’s sec filing, enova intends to use proceeds of any offering for general corporate purposes, including potentially a ramp up to higher production volumes of our power train systems.
but because this contract comes up for renewal annually, enova’s competitors will be closely watching the company’s ability to deliver quality drivetrains to the government, one industry observer said.
under this contract, enova will coordinate the supply of mt-ev all-electric walk-in step vans togsa under the cargo vans category.
under the five year agreement, remy will provide its patented remy electric motors to enova for its all-electric drive systems.
power-source and motor design agnostic, enova’s omni-series inverter/vehicle controller offers increased flexibility and ease-of-integration.
enova systems receives nyse amex exchange compliance notice read more enova systems delivers electric drive systems to optare plc read more enova announces results for year ended december 31, 2011 read more green for freeâ¢ vehicle continues us west coast tour read more enova systems, inc. to attend and present at the merriman capital investor summit 2012 read more enova and freightliner display green for freeâ¢ vehicle read more enova continues supply of drive systems to first auto works (china)
“enova’s partnership with smith electric has been a successful one, validated by the continued increase in orders of our drive systems,” said enovaceo and president mike staran.
freightliner custom chassis corporation is a subsidiary of daimler trucks north  americallc, a daimler company.
“our all-electric walk-in step van is road-tested and ready to move our government and nation forward toward cleaner transportation.”
federal fleet requirements, which, amongst other environmental initiatives, require federal agencies to reduce petroleum consumption on an annual basis (these initiatives were enacted into law by the energy independence and security act (eisa) of 2007, energy policy act (epact) of 1992,epact 2005, and two presidential executive orders).
enova continues to supply smith with electric drive systems.
enova chief operating officer john mullins added, “the next generation omni series will be compatible with a wide range ofhev, pev, and ev applications.
highlights of the september 30, 2010 quarter: enova president and ceo mike staran commented, “the existing order book, which alone surpasses our 2009 revenues, is validation that the company continues to strengthen its core capabilities.”
fccc’s commitment to green technologies is in line with daimler ag’s global initiative called, “shaping future transportation.”
these and other risks and uncertainties are detailed from time to time in enova systems’ periodic filings with the securities and exchange commission, including but not limited to enova’s annual report on form 10-k for the year ended december 31, 2010 and form 10-q for the quarterly period ending september 30, 2011.
any offer of those securities may be made solely by means of the prospectus included in the registration statement and the prospectus supplement for any future offering.
“the conference provides us the ideal platform to build awareness for enova’s all-electric and hybrid electric drive system technologies for use in medium and heavy-duty applications,” said john mullins, enova’s chief operating officer.
the company develops, designs and produces non-invasive drive systems and related components for electric, hybrid-electric, and fuel cell powered vehicles in both the “new” and “retrofit” vehicle sales market.
street torrance, ca 90501 (310) 527-2800 ### about enova enova systems (nyse amex:ena and aim:env and envs) is a leading supplier of efficient, environmentally friendly digital power components and systems products.
â¢ remy inc (“remy”).
rather than relying on predetermined maintenance schedules, the incorporation of prognostic information provides the driver critical up-to-the-minute maintenance information, such as the life of the engine, transmission, oil and filters.
we are a presenter and will also support freightliner, who will be displaying their ev at the conference’s ride and drive.
with the enova hybrid system components, the jiefang bus meets euro iii emission standards, consumes only 7.84 miles per gallon and achieves a reduction of 20 percent in harmful emissions.
in conjunction with our aggressive efforts in north america, our new incremental relationships formed in china and europe allows us dramatically improved opportunity.”
enova delivered its first electric van to the general services administration in may.
at the 2009ntea work truck show, fccc introduced its hhv chassis to  the commercial vehicle industry.
partner to unveil green
merriman capital, inc. is a wholly owned subsidiary of merriman holdings, inc. (otcqx: merr) and is the leading investment banking firm for otcqx companies.
the green for freeâ¢ program is designed to allow fleet executives to operate full 100% electric commercial vehicles (evs) for similar life cycle costs as those of diesel-powered commercial vehicles.
we are excited to bring reduced cost, more power and value to our customers as we move into economies of scale.”
smith us raises $58m in march 2011 for the production of ev fleets â¢ remy recently filed for an ipo in march 2011 for up to $100 million enova maintains a visible presence in the forefront of a growing industry with ongoing appearances and speaking engagements by company executives at leading industry events such as thentea work truck show, the upcoming edta conference on april 19-21 and key us military/government conferences.
one contract calls for enova to supply electric trucks to the federal government; the other is an agreement to supply electric drivetrains to freightliner in gaffey, s.c., the nation’s largest truck chassis maker, a division of daimler trucks north americallc.
zero greenhouse gas emissions.
for more information about the new plug-in all-electric chassis or any of  thefccc wiv chassis, please visit www.freightlinerchassis.com.
enova is conducting other high level government briefings on the benefits and value of its engineering and product capabilities.
competitor products do not offer the ergonomic benefits and  safety features of awiv such as curb-side exit, walk-through cargo area, direct  access to cargo area from driver’s station, etc.”
the partners expect these efficiencies to drive further demand for navistar’s hybrid school buses.
several states and school districts have expressed interest in expanding their hybrid school bus fleets.
the new chassis model is the only one domestically engineered and the first in the industry to be completely all-electric (includeshvac system) in north america.
816.464.0508 ryan.taylor@smithelectric.com july 8, 2010 torrance, ca, july 8, 2010 â enova systems, inc (nyse: ena andaim: env and envs), a leading innovator of proprietary hybrid and electric drive systems propelling the alternative energy industry, announced it will collaborate with remy inc. (remy) to develop a new electric drive system based on the omni controller and remyhvh motor.
august 3, 2010 torrance, ca august 3, 2010 âenova systems, inc. (nyse amex: ena and aim: env and envs), a leading innovator of proprietary hybrid and electric drive systems, confirmed today that they have moved toward large scale production supply of its all-electric drive system for the smith newton, the world’s largest battery-electric-powered production truck.
customer highlights: bolstering q4 2010 performance, enova shipped the following to meet increasing demand: â¢ charge-depleting plug-in hybrid school bus systems delivered to navistar â¢ full ev drive systems and other system components delivered to smith us (sev) â¢ pre-transmission sets delivered to first auto works (faw) â¢ full ev drive systems and other system components delivered to freightliner custom chassis (fccc)
about enova enova systems (nyse amex:ena and aim:env andenvs) is a leading supplier of efficient, environmentally friendly digital power components and systems products.
and we do with smith electric vehicles.
record q4 results demonstrate that enova benefits directly from this positive industry trending.
csr is approved by the state-owned assets supervision and administration commission of the state council, was co-founded by china south locomotive and rolling stock industry group corporation and beijing railway industry economic and trade company with a total equity capital of $7 billionusd
“competitor chassis are a cab chassis configuration and end up as box trucks typically built for the trucking industry.
the company continues to improve its margins, with a 23% positive margin complementing its 8th consecutive quarter of positive results.
staran added, “our new collaboration with remy on motor development, gsa’s intent on extending our contract, freightliner’s expected q1 2011 entry into the production ev segment, and smith’s recent order continue to define our footprint in the market.”
the warner robins air logistics center vehicle directorate hosted the 2011 vehicle transportation acquisition council (vtac) conference at robins afb, georgia from april 6 – 7, 2011.
“this business model has the potential to stimulate tremendous and rapid growth, helping achieve economies of scale through cost reduction, resulting in an excellent value proposition for the commercial fleet operator,” said mike staran, enova president andceo.
### september 28, 2010 dearborn, mi, sept. 28, 2010 â
on  select delivery and service routes, studies show that customers will save up to  $15,000 per vehicle annually compared with traditionally powered walk-in vans.
powered by tesla motors lithium ion batteries, the chassis is 100 percent electric, including itshvac system, making it the only fully featured wiv chassis in the industry to be completely electrically powered.
the green for freeâ¢ program allows fleet executives to purchase all-electric vehicles for the cost of a diesel-powered commercial vehicle.
we start the world & keep it running.
freightliner custom chassis corporation is a subsidiary of daimler trucks north americallc, a daimler company.
we believe this is the first program that is engineered to eliminate the overall incremental costs associated with buying and operating an all-electric vehicle, making the green for freeâ¢ program attractive to fleets that are both large and small.
these statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as “believe,” “expect,” “may,” “will,” “should,” “could,”“project,” “plan,” “seek,” “intend,” or “anticipate,” or the negative thereof or comparable terminology and statements about industry trends, and enova’s future performance, operations and products.
march 9, 2012 remy international, inc., north america’s largest independent manufacturer of advanced electric propulsion motors, and enova systems, inc. ( nyse: ena and aim: env and envs) have signed a long-term electric motor supply agreement.
jonathan randall, director, sales and marketing, freightliner custom chassis, said “the commercial vehicle market has relied on government funding for alternative-fuel vehicles.
please check out photos from the event here march 30, 2011 torrance, ca march 30, 2011 â
enova is the exclusive supplier of hybrid electric drive systems to ic bus, an affiliated division of navistar.
- 6 – 8 hour battery charge, achieved via a simple 220 volt outlet.
currently, the company is looking to expand its market opportunities through various joint ventures with first auto works, freightliner custom chassis, china southern rail corporation limited, optare, the us air force and us government to provide electric driven transport systems.
overall annual gross margin increase from 10.8% in 2009 to 16.5% in 2010 â¢ moved from an overall gross margin loss of 74.1% in 2006 to 16.5% positive gross margin in 2010 enova president and ceo mike staran stated “2010 resulted in quarter after quarter positive gross margin growth, responsible cash management and core customer growth.
“in 2005, we collaborated on the industry’s first production plug-in hybrid vehicle, and we’ve refined the technology since.
“the fccc-enova partnership is accelerating the broad deployment of ev technology in this critical vehicle segment while improving the environment and helping to reduce u.s. dependence on imported energy.”
â¢ overall, annual gross margin was 3.9% in 2011, down from 16.5% in 2010 and the gross margin in q4 2011 decreased to a negative 97% compared to a positive margin of 20% for the same period in 2010.
clean transport is gaining increasing traction in the us and the department of energy has made it a priority by launching a $175m funding pool for advanced vehicle technologies.
additional detailed information on the conference can be found at http://bit.ly/xvtjwl. about enova systems: enova systems (http://www.enovasystems.com) is a leading supplier of efficient, environmentally friendly digital power components and systems products.
half expectations the company posted a net loss of $1.7 million for the quarter, which rodriguez said was in line with market expectations.
â¢ merriman capital investor summit in new york on november 17, 2011.
we are excited to grow with enova as they continue to drive fuel efficiency and reduce or eliminate tailpipe emissions.”
for more information, visit www.freightlinerchassis.com.
these and other risks and uncertainties are detailed from time to time in enova systems’ periodic filings with the securities and exchange commission, including but not limited to enova’s annual report on form 10-k for the year ended december 31, 2010 and form 10-q for the fiscal quarter ended september 30, 2011.
enova and fccc developed an integration method for both new and retrofit applications.
the resulting integration of our all-electric drive system into the mt-45 chassis providesfccc an all-electric product offering: the fccc mt-ev.
west 190th street | torrance, ca 90501 | 310.527.2800 copyright © 2011 enova systems | privacy policy | join our mailing list | contact us
going concern enova’s annual report on 10-k for 2011 filed with thesec included an audit opinion containing a going concern qualification.
the firm’s services include corporate finance, business strategy, equity research, investment banking, corporate branding, trading, and brokerage.
enova applies unique “enabling technologies” in the areas of alternative energy propulsion systems for light and heavy-duty vehicles as well as power conditioning and management systems for distributed generation systems.
the u.s. air force has been evaluating the ze all-electric drive system for more than 18 months, with positive results.
the mt-ev wiv has a one-piece bonded windshield allowing for outstanding visibility.
the new  chassis model is the only one domestically engineered and the first in the  industry to be completely all-electric (includeshvac system) in north america.
freightliner custom chassis corporation (fccc) and enova systems inc. (nyse amex: ena and aim: env and envs), a leading developer of proprietary hybrid-electric and all-electric drive systems and drive system components for the emerging green commercial vehicle market, today launched a program to make electric vehicles more accessible to fleets.
enova technologies is helping the world’s commercial vehicle manufacturers and their fleet customers ease the transition to green transportation with complete drive system solutions that are easy to install and integrate.
production availability is planned for the fourth quarter in 2011.
smith u.s. produces the smith newton â the world’s largest battery-electric-powered truck.
enova andfccc also jointly announced intentions to deploy 3,000 vehicles via the green for freeâ¢ program (described above).fccc has begun, in early 2012, an aggressive campaign to exploit future ev sales by showcasing the enova/fccc ev step van at numerous events on the west coast, as well as the recentntea work truck show in indianapolis.
“collaborating with freightliner custom chassis corporation has  enabled us to achieve our shared goal of introducing all-electric drive  technology into the walk-in van market,” said mike staran, president and ceo of enova systems.
- the cleanequity monaco 2010 conference, held march 4 – 5, 2010, at  the le sporting d’hiver, place du casino in the principality of monaco.
in addition to ongoing supply to existing customers, enova is in advanced discussions with a number of parties, both in asia and the uk, and is hopeful that these will lead to additional customer orders in the future.
fccc presented the preproduction all-electric wiv chassis model at the 2010  national truck equipment association (ntea) work truck show (booth #3035).
tel: 310-527-2800, contact: john micek,cfo/investor relations about green for freeâ¢: the green for freeâ¢ program intends to allow fleet executives to purchase all-electric vehicles for the cost of a diesel-powered commercial vehicle.
“the enova ze is a perfect fit for u.s. government agency fleets that  are looking to meet emissions targets.
zero emissions without sacrificing performance the new all-electric chassis enables fleet operators to eliminate harmful emissions and cut operating and maintenance costs while delivering the performance and driver comfort featuresfccc customers have come to expect.
recently optare announced that their long term future has been secured due to a refinancing agreement.
because the publicly-traded float (as calculated under sec rules) of enova’s shares of approximately $24 million as of july 8, 2011 is less than $75 million, unless and until enova’s public float exceeds $75 million, enova will be restricted to selling securities registered under the shelf registration statement equal to no more than 1/3 of the value of its public float in any consecutive twelve month period.
freightliner custom chassis corporation manufactures premium chassis for the motorhome, delivery walk-in van, and school bus and shuttle bus markets.
despite a sluggish economy and delayed volume growth, navistar is growing its market share.
â¢ freightliner custom chassis corporation (fccc), a key enova customer, maintains an 80% market share in the pickup and delivery sector, making them the segment leader.
specifically, the company is not in compliance with section 1003(a)
margins decreased, in particular in the second half of 2011, due to the lower sales base and our decision to record an increase in the inventory valuation reserve at year end.
march 1, 2011 ntea is the largest work truck event and expects 8,054 attendees, 530 exhibitors, 80 product launches, a green truck summit and 118 media representatives.
these include: ease of use and significantly reduced maintenance requirements.
- the national truck equipment association “work truck show”  and green truck summit conference at america’s center in st. louis, mo,  on march 9-12, 2010.
additionally,faw recently won china’s prestigiousbaav best hev bus award for 2010.
it became one of a few manufacturers to make both electric and gas-electric drivetrains.
about freightliner custom chassis freightliner custom chassis corporation manufactures premium chassis for the motor-home, delivery walk-in van, and school bus and shuttle bus markets.
thegsa, along with all federal agencies, has been tasked by president barack obama in a recent executive order to set and meet specific targets for increased energy efficiency, a 30% reduction in fleet petroleum consumption, and reduced emissions by 2020.
in 2008,fccc introduced ecofred™, the motorhome industry’s first hybrid-electric chassis, and thefccc mb-hev hybrid-electric commercial bus chassis in response to a growing customer demand for alternative-fuel power that provides the same excellent performance and durability asfccc’s premium diesel-powered chassis.
for more information, please go to http://www.merrimanco.com/. merriman capital, inc. is a registered broker-dealer and member of the financial industry regulatory authority (finra) http://www.finra.org/ and the securities investor protection corporation (sipc) http://www.sipc.org/contact.cfm.
ashok is a market leader in the indian bus market selling over 23,000 buses annually.
february 29, 2012 torrance, ca, february 29, 2012 â
the types of vehicles we go after are ones that have an average life of ten to twelve years â that way you can more easily get a value proposition.
attendees from all the air force major command headquarters transportation / vehicle maintenance staff along with representatives from the vehicle directorate at robinsafb and from air force bases across the country were in attendance.
for more information about the new plug-in all-electric chassis or any of thefccc wiv chassis, please visit www.freightlinerchassis.com.
sev supplies vehicles for frito lay, staples, coke, pg&e and at&t.sev has been awarded $32 million by the u.s department of energy to develop and produce all-electric parcel delivery.
the savings fleets incur from the reduced maintenance and fuel savings of the electric vehicles (evs) is then used over a period of time to cover the incremental expense for the technology.
enova systems, inc. ( nyse amex: ena and aim: env and envs), a leading developer of proprietary hybrid electric and all-electric drive systems and drive system components for the emerging green commercial vehicle market announced it has joined the goelectricdrive (goelectricdrive.com) committee.
“we encourage all government  procurement officers to consider the road to reduced emissions with the enova  ze.”
since april 2010, mr. micek has also been managing partner of verdant ventures, a merchant bank dedicated to sourcing and funding university and corporate lab spinouts in areas including cleantech and pharma.
january 9, 2012 torrance, ca january 9, 2012 â
they comprise: volvo, wrightbus, optare,man and alexander dennis limited, all of which are based in, or partly in, the uk.
parties interested in scheduling a meeting with  enova at this conference are urged to contact jarett fenton at (310) 527-2800  ext.
john will replace jarett fenton, who has decided to move into other areas of opportunity.
about enova enova systems (nyse amex:ena and aim:env  andenvs) is a leading supplier of efficient, environmentally friendly digital  power components and systems products.
the company develops, designs and produces non-invasive  drive systems and related components for electric, hybrid-electric, and fuel  cell powered vehicles in both the ‘new’ and ‘retrofit’  vehicle sales market.
enova continues to benefit from federal fleet penetration viagsa with the smith newton product offering in the medium and heavy duty vehicle category.
for information about owning and operating electric vehicles, please visit goelectricdrive.com.
the presenting companies represent industries that are growing faster than the overall economy, such as materials technology, clean energy, technology and telecommunications, and resources, including precious metals, critical metals and rare earths materials.
august 16, 2011 enova systems inc (env 45p / £14.11m) enova systems has announced its financial results for q2 2011, which has seen $2.5m of revenue and a 23 per cent positive margin from its last quarter.
launched in stuttgart, germany, by daimler in 2007, the  initiative is focused on reducing category emissions pollutants, carbon dioxide  and fuel consumption.
the conference will be held at fordham university, lincoln center campus, in new york city on sept. 15-16, 2011.
financial highlights: â¢ annual revenue was $6.6m in 2011, a decrease of 23% from $8.6m in 2010 and q4 2011 revenue was $638,000, a decrease of $3.1m from $3.7m for the same period in 2010.
our various electric and hybrid-electric drive systems, power management and power conversion systems continue to be used in applications including class 3-6 trucks, transit buses, and heavy industrial vehicles.
technology fast 500â¢ technology fast 500, which was conducted by deloitte & touchellp, a subsidiary of deloittellp, provides a ranking of the fastest growing technology, media, telecommunications, life sciences and clean technology companies â both public and private – in north america.
march 26, 2010 torrance, ca, march 26, 2010 â
by remaining diligent in maturing what we consider game-changers such as green for freeâ¢, we believe that we have strengthened our position with our core customers, as well as begun to establish better control over the distribution channels in our market segment.”
yet even with all these contracts in hand, volumes remain small.
april 10, 2012 torrance, ca april 9th, 2012 â
with the selection of the battery supplier,enova and fccc will be well-positioned to set the pace in the development of large scale commercial full ev vehicles and technological innovation in this sector.
enova’s all electric ze drive system offers an ideal zero-emissions vehicle for service and utility fleets with high performance demands such as the ford f-150 and the chevy express.
in development since february 2009, enova’s industry-leading omni-series inverter features a 50% smaller design package and double the continuous power of the current 90kw system.
enova was one of only two suppliers invited to present at the morning briefing.
“we anticipate increased orders from other government agencies and departments in the weeks to come.”
throughout 2011, we finalized the development of our next generation omni power management and drive system component.
participating in one of these sessions, enova systems chief executive  officer mike staran and chief financial officer jarett fenton will discuss  enova’s technology, products, growing customer base and expanding market  opportunity, as well as the competitive landscape.
the green for freeâ¢ program will utilize thefccc all-electric walk-in van ( wiv) chassis powered by the enova drive system.
the meeting also confirmed the appointment of independent auditing firm pmb helin donovan,llp for 2010; and the re-election of directors richard davies, john micek, edwin riddell, roy roberts, michael staran and john wallace.
for further information: enova systems, inc +1 310 527 2800 mike staran, president and chief executive officer john micek, chief financial officer daniel stewart +44 (0)20 7776 6550 oliver rigby threadneedle communications +44 (0)20 7653 9850 josh royston graham herring hilary millar about enova: enova systems (http://www.enovasystems.com) is a leading supplier of efficient, environmentally friendly digital power components and systems products.
- combined electronic drive motor (edm), enova control electronics unit (ceu ), and batteries eliminate the need for an internal combustion engine.
“extensive design validation testing is scheduled for completion in q3 this year, so the omni will be available for customer program development soon after that.
“to achieve multi vehicle recognition from the gsa affirms enova’s market leadership in the clean vehicle space.
freightliner custom chassis corporation's all-electric walk-in van chassis  debuts at ntea work truck show march 10, 2010 gaffney, s.c. – march 10, 2010 – freightliner custom chassis  corporation (fccc) continues its legacy of engineering alternative-power  products for the commercial vehicle industry with the introduction of its  highly anticipated plug-in all-electric walk-in van (wiv) chassis.
said staran, “the optimized controller-motor solution we are developing demonstrates the strong technology heritage and commitment to customers that enova continues to bring to the hybrid and all-electric vehicle market.”
the  regenerative braking system reduces friction during braking, resulting in less  brake wear and extended brake life.
“it just seems that announcements like these have been made before over the years and the execution has come up short,” rodriguez said.
“the company would need more capital to produce on a massive enough scale to really take advantage of the retrofit market,” he said.
“the fccc-enova partnership is accelerating the  broad deployment of ev technology in this critical vehicle segment while  improving the environment and helping to reduce u.s. dependence on imported  energy.”
“to achieve multi vehicle recognition from the gsa affirms  enova’s market leadership in the clean vehicle space.
staran commented: “the current rate of growth in the alternative energy industry makes this an ideal time for us to drive broad visibility to potential stakeholders.”
these and other risks and uncertainties are detailed from time to time in enova systems’ periodic filings with the securities and exchange commission, including but not limited to enova’s annual report on form 10-k for the year ended december 31, 2011.
the durable steel straight-rail chassis frame  reduces flex and bowing to minimize chassis stress while carrying heavy  payloads.
powered by the enova 120kw drive system, the smith newton all-electric trucks will provide a host of environmental and economical advantages for fleet operators and drivers.
liquidity and capital requirements: the company expects that it will need to raise additional capital to pursue its business plan and is currently pursuing a variety of funding options.
for the first of these events, enova will be joining a prestigious panel of speakers at the 2010edta conference.
these statements can be  identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as  “believe,” “expect,” “may,”  “will,” “should,’’ “could,”  “project,” “plan,’’ “seek,”  “intend,’’ or “anticipate’’ or the negative  thereof or comparable terminology and statements about industry trends and  enova’s future performance, operations and products.
currently, he actively serves on the board of directors of armanino foods of distinction, innovaro corporation, andjal/universal assurors.
the enova ze’s zero emissions technology has captured the attention of some of the largest commercialoems and fleet operators in the world.
purchasing at savings guarantees that government agencies receive the best value at the lowest possible price without having to go through a tedious bid process.
daniel stewart is regarded as one of aim’s leadingnomad s with offices in london and new york.
with more than 16.3 million vehicles in operation, the nation’s fleets possess enough capacity to drive initial ramp-up scale in the evoem supply chains.
the company has also made advances in providing three technological products:omni inverter, omni charger and omni dc/dc converter, all green efficient products designed for commercial vehicles.
enova systems, inc. (nyse :ena and aim: env and envs), a leading innovator of proprietary hybrid and electric drive systems propelling the alternative energy industry, has received an incremental order to deliver 100 electric drive systems to smith electric vehicles (sev), manufacturer of the all-electric smith newton truck.
â¢ ardour capital energy technology conference in new york september 15 & 16, 2011.
february 7, 2012 torrance, ca february 7th, 2012 â
remy’s patented high voltage hairpin (hvh) technology’s world-class torque and power density deliver added speed and range to electric vehicles.
fleets with set routes in pickup and delivery applications are ideal for the green for freeâ¢ program because they have predictable drive routes and return each night to the company depot.
fccc is in the final phase of delivering initial vehicles to top fleet operators.
among those attending the conference are a number of prominent legislators and representatives from government agencies that have been tasked with reducing their carbon footprints and reducing u.s. dependence on imported oil.
“enova is honored to have been selected by gsa as the agency’s exclusive supplier of all-electric step vans,” says enova president andceo michael staran.
“the partnership to develop the mt-ev wiv new body styling with morgan olson was a natural progression for the all-electric vehicle,” said jonathan randall, director of sales and marketing forfccc.
tel: 310-527-2800, contact: john micek, cfo/investor relations about green for freeâ¢: the green for freeâ¢ program intends to allow fleet executives to purchase all-electric vehicles for the cost of a diesel-powered commercial vehicle.
testing will include a range of dynamometer and on-road testing programs.
if the plan is accepted but the company is not in compliance with the continued listing standards of the company guide by october 15, 2013 or if the company is not making progress consistent with the plan during the plan period, the company would become subject to delisting procedures in accordance with section 1010 and part 12 of the company guide.
fccc also designs and manufactures alternative-fuel chassis for the  commercial bus and motorhome market segments.
this new battery technology also positions enova to aggressively pursue the retro-fit market.
the quiet operation of the all-electric chassis also makes for an enjoyable  driver experience.
tel: 310-527-2800, contact: john micek, cfo/investor relations april 3, 2012 torrance, ca april 3, 2012 â enova systems, inc. (nyse amex: ena and aim: env and envs) (“enova” or “the company”), a leading developer of proprietary hybrid electric and all-electric drive systems and drive system components for the emerging green commercial vehicle market, announced its 2011 financial results on friday, march 30, 2012.
“combined, these two technologies and the expertise behind them create a solution that will enable vehicle manufacturers and system integrators to more easily and efficiently develop reliable, high-performance drivetrains.”
the other reason that we like this is the vehicles are bigger, so it’s easier to package the system and weight is not as big of an issue in a larger vehicle as it is in a passenger vehicle.’
the mt-ev all-electric chassis utilizes enova systems’ 120kw all-electric drive system technology.
“we want to help those fleets interested in reducing their energy consumption and environmental impact by enabling them to purchase more alternative-fuel vehicles at one time because of the reduced upfront costs.”
enova systems, inc. (nyse amex: ena and aim: env and envs), a leading developer of proprietary hybrid electric and all-electric drive systems and drive system components for the emerging green commercial vehicle market, announced today it has received further orders to supply drive system components to first auto works (faw) in china.
this means that a battery pack or hybrid solution can be designed for the specific requirements of that fleet.
west 190th  street    |    torrance, ca  90501    |    310.527.2800 copyright © 2011 enova  systems    |    privacy policy     |    join our mailing list     |    contact us
the durable steel straight-rail chassis frame reduces flex and bowing to minimize chassis stress while carrying heavy payloads.
the u.s. general services administration (gsa) is a mandatory source for vehicles under federal property management regulation 101-26.501 that purchases vehicles at a savings from the manufacturer’s list price.
additionally, companies must be in business for a minimum of five years, and be headquartered within north america.
january 5, 2012 torrance, ca january 5, 2012 â
throughout the event, enova will actively support freightliner customer chassis  corporation (a division of daimler trucks north america), who is partnering  with enova to develop and integrate all-electric walk-in van chassis targeted  at the parcel delivery and urban route delivery fleet market.
may 11, 2010 torrance, ca, may 11, 2010 â enova systems, inc (nyse: ena andaim: env and envs), a leading innovator of proprietary hybrid and electric drive systems propelling the clean vehicle industry, unveils its highly anticipated next-generation of power electronics with the new omni-series 200kva-capable power inverter for hybrid-electric and all-electric medium and heavy-duty commercial vehicles.
“we chose remy’s electric motors for their proven durability and power density.
currently the benefits of a non-invasive, retrofit solution to the usaf’s existing flightline van fleet as well as all electric service vehicles are targeted.
however, batteries remain very expensive commodities.
this is the first program that will eliminate the overall incremental costs associated with buying and operating an all-electric vehicle, making the program attractive to fleets that are both large and small.
the anticipated savings fleets are expected to realize from the reduced maintenance and fuel cost of electricity of the electric vehicles are used over a period of time to cover the incremental expense for the technology.
additionally, during the month of june, enova will display their family of vehicles to north americanoems, government officials and targeted fleet operators, complete with capability overviews and “ride-and-drives” at various target customer locations in the midwest, east, and west coasts.
the quiet operation of the all-electric mt-ev also makes for an enjoyable driver experience.
investor summit 2012 on wednesday, february 1st in new york city.
mike staran, enova president and ceo said “despite the industry downturn, enova continues to ship product to core and incremental customers.
production availability is planned for later in 2011.
enova coo john mullins said, “the deployment of these initial systems is an affirmation of navistar’s commitment to the hybrid school bus market.
the ability to drive vehicles with our system is further evidence that enova is ready to offer immediate support for their electric vehicle initiatives” added staran.
the center is the worldwide hub for daimler’s hybrid development.
the battery pack will charge from fully depleted to  fully charged in six to eight hours.
on the heels of the omni product introduction, enova received its first order through the general services administration (gsa).
tom quinn, the director for the  hawaii center for advanced transportation technology (hcatt) says, “the  enova ze has performed exceptionally well for the u.s. air force.
www.remyinc.com about enova: enova systems (nyse amex:ena and aim: env and envs) is a leading supplier of efficient, environmentally friendly digital power components and systems products.
enova continues to mature its long-standing relationship with valence on energy-oriented battery packs, as well as evaluate technologies offered by a123, samsung/bosch and dow kokam.
for further information, contact enova systems directly, or visit our web site at: www.greenforfree.com about freightliner custom chassis corporation: freightliner custom chassis corporation manufactures premium chassis for the motorhome, delivery walk-in van, and school bus and shuttle bus markets.
the enova ze is powered by enova’s 120kw all-electric  drive system and is currently the only zero emissions solution for federal  fleets in the step van category.
this platform will be used to power faw’s 11-meter and 12-meter hybrid power buses operating in changchun, dalian and kunming, china.
for further information, contact the enova systems gsa hotline directly at  (310) 527-2800 ext.
john weber, remy ceo, added, “remy is proud to collaborate with enova as a provider of drivetrain solutions for this market.
â¢ us air force & hawaii center for advanced transportation tecnologies (hcatt) has awarded enova a contract to integrate a hydrogen fuel cell powered electric runway sweeper for use at the joint pearl harbor-hickam air force base in honolulu.
the meeting reiterated enova’s previously disclosed 2009 results , as well as highlighted 2010 improvements , growth and execution including: â¢ growth in enova’s quarter-over-quarter positive gross margins â¢ reduced inventory and strong cash management â¢ increases in customer volume and order book of approximately $6m as of september 30th anticipated for delivery to customers in q4 2010 and the first quarter of 2011 â¢ aggressive development with incremental customers and suppliers â¢ continuediso certification â¢ ongoing validation of next generation omni system enova president and ceo mike staran commented, “the company continues to strengthen its core capabilities, and has added incremental customer and supplier interest, which are important to our initiatives.
enova recently spoke (or will speak) at: â¢ us army’s tank automotive and armaments command ( tacom) on april 19th â¢ electric drive and transportation association (edta) conference on april 20-21st â¢ us pentagon on april 21st â¢ lazard capital market’s 3rd annual alternative energy investor summit in new york on june 1-2.
we also are continuing our current research and development programs, as well as formulating new programs with the u.s. government and other private sector companies for electric and hybrid systems.
daniel stewart is both a nominated adviser toaim and a regulated broker to both the official list andaim.
august 15, 2011 torrance, ca august, 2011 â
the batteries featured on the electric system also capture and store energy  during the regenerative braking phase of the vehicle’s operation.
the order for 100 enova 120kw drive systems will be installed into smith newton trucks in kansas city, mo.
cfo jarett fenton speaking at cleanequity monaco conference march, 2010 march 4, 2010 monaco audio enova secures united states general services administration (gsa)  exclusive contract to supply the enova ze: all-electric, walk-in step van february 1, 2010 sees other gsa wins with navistar hybrid school bus and smith
“our partner fccc is taking a leading role in reducing harmful  emissions and fleet operating costs now and in the years ahead,”  explained staran.
built to base specifications with a 157-inch wheel base chassis and a 14,500 lb. gross vehicle weight rating, the all-electric van is the ideal choice for the unit’s public works department which provides general maintenance across the base.
advantages of the ze drive system technology include: - ease of use, with none of the maintenance requirements associated with  gasoline drive trains.
â¢ lgcpi battery supply: enova systems announces a partnership withlgcpi, the north american subsidiary of lg chem ltd.. lgcpi intends to produce and supply power-oriented battery packs on enova’s charge-sustaining post-transmission hybrid systems.
five bus manufacturers will benefit from orders for their eco-friendly hybrid, electric and gas buses.
6 to 8-hour battery recharge achieved via a simple 220 volt outlet.
enova highlighted the retrofit, in a post-transmission parallel hybrid configuration, to key personnel like colonel michael holl, director support equipment and vehicles division, robins air force base, ga.
on the heels of the cleanequity monaco 2010 conference, enova will also participate in the national truck equipment association (ntea) ‘work truck show’ and green truck summit conference – a major industry event for commercial vehicleoems, national fleet operators, and vehicle equipment manufacturers that comprise enova’s core customer base.
this interest should continue to grow as more tax credits and incentives become available to ease the transition to hybrid school buses.
103 or allen & caron inc., enova’s agency for investor relations and corporate communications at (949) 474-4300.
also, the vehicle performance gauge is included to assist the driver in the operation of the vehicle.
the torrance-based maker of hybrid and electric drivetrains for trucks and buses has signed two major contracts in recent months that the company expects will provide a major boost to revenues.
the enova drive system will be integrated and branded under the name of jiefang ca6120urh hybrid.
the regenerative braking system reduces friction during braking, resulting in less brake wear and extended brake life.
these and other risks and uncertainties are detailed from time to time in enova systems’ periodic filings with the securities and exchange commission, including but not limited to enova’s annual report on form 10-k for the year ended december 31, 2010.
the all-electric chassis, developed in partnership with enova systems (nyse :ena andaim:env and envs), a leading developer and producer of electric and hybrid-electric drive system technologies for commercial vehicleoems, is built on the popularfccc mt-45 wiv chassis platform.
technology highlights: â¢ omni inverter:
the battery pack will charge from fully depleted to fully charged in six to eight hours.
the commercial vehicle market has relied on government funding for alternative-fuel vehicles with some success.
enova and remy have executed a letter of intent to develop a new electric drive system based on enova’s next generation omni controller and remy hvh250 motor.
the all-electric drive system features battery packs that provide up to a 100-mile driving range on a single charge, making it ideal for pickup and delivery applications.
business fleets avoid this issue as they come back to the same place at the end of a driver’s shift and can then be charged.
we look forward to expanding our relationship with enova via a long term supply agreement that will allow us and our suppliers to maximize penetration and cost effectiveness through high volume orders.”
purchasing at  savings guarantees that government agencies receive the best value at the  lowest possible price without having to go through a tedious bid process.
the company was established in december 2007 with sixteen (16) fully funded holding companies and over 80,000 employees distributed in 10 provinces and cities around the country.
april 22, 2010 enova will host a national vehicle exhibition to demonstrate ze electric vehicle family; ford, chevy, and daimler/freightliner vehicles to be showcased torrance, ca, april 22, 2010 â
tel: 310-527-2800 contact: john micek, cfo/investor relations about edta: the electric drive transportation association (edta) is the preeminent trade association representing battery, hybrid, plug-in hybrid and fuel cell electric drive technologies and infrastructure.
additional information: this news release contains forward-looking statements relating to enova systems and its products that are intended to be covered by the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by the private securities litigation reform act of 1995.
contact: jarett fenton, cfo/investor relations enova systems, inc. 1560
the full range of services includes corporate finance, corporate broking, research, sales & trading, debt advisory and investor relations.
“smith electric shares our commitment to innovating zero-emissions vehicle technologies, and to making these technologies more readily available as well as economically viable.
the smith newton is an exclusive, all-electric medium and heavy duty truck  offering on thegsa product menu.
optare has chosen enova as the production drive system supplier for their all electric buses.
china southern rail corporation limitedï¼csr) has integrated two (2) all-electric drive systems for integration into commercial bus applications.
remy international also manufactures and distributes electric propulsion motors designed with leading edge technology and backed by the security of over a billion miles of proven reliability.
it allows our customers to show their commitment to the environment while maximizing driver productivity.”
for more information aboutedta and its members, visit electricdrive.org.
that is likely to be the entry point for lots of people to come into the market.’
the conference, on january 11, will explore the increasing use of alternative fuels in the commercial vehicle market.
legacy of engineering alternative-fuel technologies fccc and its parent company, daimler trucks north america llc (dtna), maintain a legacy of providing innovative technologies that benefit customers and the environment.
the washington, dc location for this year’s edta conference reflects the current administration’s push to deploy more green fleets in the months and years ahead.
about merriman capital: merriman capital, inc. is an investment banking firm providing equity and options execution services, market making, and differentiated research for high growth companies.
enova systems’ chief executive officer, mike staran, credits “traction of our products with key customers, combined with u.s. government programs incentivizing purchases of all-electric and hybrid technologies in our market segment”.
capable of handling heavy payloads.
competitor products do not offer the ergonomic benefits and safety features of awiv such as curb-side exit, walk-through cargo area, direct access to cargo area from driver’s station, etc.”
a long list of advanced features includes: â¢ industry-leading power density through a proprietary new liquid cooling strategy â¢ maximum application flexibility through software configurable control allowing common hardware to be used across many sizes of hybrid or electric vehicles â¢ compatible with a wide range of induction and permanent magnet motors â¢ true continuous power output of 110kw, with peak over 200kva making the omni capable of powering the enova p90, p120, and even p240 drive systems â¢ heavy duty cast aluminum chassis and robust design using minimal harnesses and interconnects allows flexible vehicle mounting in any orientation the groundbreaking new omni-series power inverter is the result of enova’s ongoing refinement and innovation of its clean vehicle technology and a sign of things to come.
green technology legacy fccc and its parent company, daimler trucks north america llc (dtna), maintain a legacy of providing innovative technologies that benefit customers and the environment.
in addition, enova is preparing to fulfill the first u.s. government order of its groundbreaking all-electric walk-in step van.
growth highlights: â¢ $2.5m in revenue for q2 2011, an increase of 23% over the same period in 2010 â¢ 9% points increase in gross margin to 23% in q2 2011 from 14% in the same period in 2010 â¢ 8th consecutive quarter with positive gross margins enova president and ceo mike staran stated “we are pleased to have achieved consecutive quarters of positive gross margins owing to maturation of our manufacturing processes.
enova systems, inc. (nyse amex: ena and aim: env and envs), a leading developer of proprietary hybrid electric and all-electric drive systems and drive system components for the emerging green commercial vehicle market, announces revenues and gross margin growth for q4 2010 and for the 2010 year.
we are poised to further execute on our plan through game changing initiatives currently being matured with our customer and investor base.”
fccc makes 80% of all chassis in this attractive segment that is occupied by the likes ofups, federal express, and other major national fleet operators.
despite this development, positive feedback from customers continues to indicate to enova that the market will improve in the longer term.
once the registration statement becomes effective, it will offer us additional flexibility in accessing capital markets over a 3-year period when market conditions are favorable,” stated michael e. staran, president and chief executive officer of enova.
growth highlights: â¢ $3.7m in revenue for q4 2010, up more than 151% over the same period in 2009 â¢ 20.4% gross margin for q4 2010 with gross profit up 327% over the same period in 2009 result as one of the best quarters on record for enova â¢ annual revenue growth from $5.6m in 2009 to $8.6m in 2010, a 52% increase â¢
navistar continued to demonstrate its leadership in the american school bus  market with its exclusivegsa contract to supply hybrid school buses.
staran said the company expects its first retrofit contracts during the second half of this year.
goelectricdrive is now comprised of leading automakers, drive system, battery and charging manufacturers that are driven to educate consumers, policymakers and key industry sectors on the benefits of plug-in electric vehicles, and to address market and institutional barriers to mass market adoption of plug-in electric vehicles (pev’s).
this will be followed by a series of panel engagements and plenary sessions including ones by mike staran, enovaceo on april 20 at 3:45 pm (fleet applications: electric drive powers the future) and by john mullins, enovacoo on april 21 at 10:15 am (supplier perspective: partners in our future).
fccc is the first  company within the industry to utilize tesla batteries for commercial  applications.
as is the exchange’s policy, enova has been afforded the opportunity to submit a plan of compliance to the exchange by may 17, 2012 addressing how the company intends to regain compliance with the continued listing standards of the company guide within a maximum of 18 months (the “plan period”).
â¢ smith electric vehicles n.a. inc. (“smith”).
enova also maintains a visible presence in the forefront of a growing industry with ongoing appearances and speaking engagements by company executives at leading industry events such as ardour capital’s 9th annual energy technology conference in september 2011, the recentntea work truck show in indianapolis, the upcomingevs 26 conference at the los angeles convention center and key us military/government conferences.
staran said the market for electric and hybrid-electric trucks and buses has been growing as government regulators have focused more on limiting emissions from trucks and buses.
today, remy international, inc. is a leading global manufacturer and remanufacturer of alternators, starter motors and electric traction motors, headquartered in nearby pendleton.
“their leadership is creating next-generation jobs and developing new green technologies that will benefit our nation.”
the jiefang 40 ft long hybrid city bus can carry up to 103 passengers and travel at a speeds of over 50 miles per hour.
with over two billion kilometers of proven reliability, remy’s compacthvh electric propulsion motors are power-dense, lab tested and road proven.
recently, enova has partnered with freightliner custom chassis corporation (fccc ), to integrate and deploy this innovative technology with the mt-45 walk-in  van chassis, with deployment to national fleet operator(s) in the first quarter  of 2010.
enova applies unique âenabling technologies’ in the areas of alternative energy propulsion systems for light and heavy-duty vehicles as well as power conditioning and management systems for distributed generation systems.
“enova systems, like all 2011 technology fast 500â¢ companies, have excelled in fostering innovation and channeling it into spectacular growth — against the backdrop of one of the most challenging economies in history,” said eric openshaw, vice chairman and u.s. technology, media and telecommunications leader, deloittellp.
when the shelf registration statement is declared effective by thesec, it will allow enova to periodically sell, in one or more offerings, up to $50 million of securities, with the amount that enova expects to be able to offer in the next twelve month period limited to one-third of the publicly traded float of enova’s common stock.
enova is  the exclusive supplier of hybrid electric drive systems to ic bus, an  affiliated division of navistar.
the summit provided extensive opportunity for analysts and investors to meet with enova on a “one on one” basis.
on display will be a vehicle that is the result of enova and freightliner custom chassis corp (fccc) recently announced “green for freeâ¢” initiative (www.greenforfree.com).
the company is taking steps to prepare and submit such a plan to the exchange on or before may 17, 2012.
remy international ceo john weber said, “remy’s hvh motors will be a strong addition to enova’s excellent power systems.
the company’s core competencies  are focused on the development and commercialization of power management and  conversion systems for mobile applications.
this is the first program that is engineered to eliminate the overall incremental costs associated with buying and operating an all-electric vehicle, making the program attractive to fleets that are both large and small.
ashok leyland is the flagship of the hinduja group and a leading indian commercial vehicle manufacturing company based in chennai, selling approximately 94,000 vehicles and about 17,000 engines annually and is the second largest commercial vehicle company in india in the medium and heavy commercial vehicle segment, with a market share of about 25.7% in 2010/2011.
‘work  truck show’ and green truck summit conference – a major industry  event for commercial vehicleoems, national fleet operators, and vehicle  equipment manufacturers that comprise enova’s core customer base.
tel: 310-527-2800 contact: john micek, cfo /investor
technology fast 500 award winners are selected based on percentage fiscal year revenue growth from 2006 to 2010.
ardour global indexes are a family of pure-play alternative energy indexes and the company is a member of finra/sipc.
reliable, durable work tool the mt-ev chassis boasts a gvwr of 14,000 to 19,500 lbs.
tel: +1 310 527 2800 mike staran, president and chief executive officer john micek, chief financial officer daniel stewart & company
co-located with the washington, dc auto show, this year’s conference will focus on the next generation of zero-emission transportation.
“we are committed to developing new chassis that offer a superior level of comfort, reliability, performance and durability that our customers need from their vehicles, while also manufacturing products that are environmentally responsible.”
“this may be why enova’s revenue often comes in lower than expectations, as they did this past quarter,” he noted.
edta conducts public policy advocacy, education, industry networking, and international conferences.
the projected savings fleets incur from the reduced maintenance and fuel savings of the electric vehicles (evs) are then used over a period of time to cover the incremental expense for the technology.
â¢ general services administration (gsa) recently extended a key enova contract for another year to supply all-electric step vans to the federal government.
the green for freeâ¢ program will utilize the fccc all-electric walk-in van (wiv) chassis powered by the enova drive system.
“our vision is clearly focused on transitioning the all-electric chassis into the mainstream of our walk-in van production programs.
to download images associated with this press release, please visit: http://www.daimler-trucksnorthamerica.com/download/2010/03_10_fccc_enova.asp on the internet: visit the freightliner custom chassis  corporation web site at www.freightlinerchassis.com for additionalfccc news and  product information.
cleanequity monaco assists  emerging clean technology companies like enova in accelerating the  commercialization of their technologies, by connecting them to key players from  the investment, political, industry and media communities.
the all-electric chassis is specifically designed for the urban delivery vehicle market in which it can provide the greatest operating and environmental benefit.
as part of thentea alternative fuel  ride-and-drive program, attendees will be able to drive the ze on a 2-mile  route outside the america’s center.
built of lightweight, durable composites that are completely recyclable, the interior of the cab features an automotive-style interior, maximizing driver comfort and productivity.
the savings fleets incur from the reduced maintenance and fuel savings of the electric vehicles (evs) is used over a period of time to cover the incremental expense for the technology.
with plug-and-play connectivity, it is compatible with a wide range of vehicle drive systems and motors, and can be configured forhev, phev and ev applications.
he said that when enova beat out billionaire players like eaton corp. of cleveland and german titan siemens ag for the federal general services administration contract in february, the industry was forced to take notice of the small company.
the first order of enova powered vans will be delivered to the u.s. army base located at ft. lewis, wa.
street torrance, ca 90501 october 3, 2011 enova invited to participate in usaf industry event at los angeles air force base facility expected to replace 100% of fleet with electric vehicles october 3, 2011 â enova systems, inc. (nyse amex: ena and aim: env and envs), a leading developer of proprietary hybrid electric and all-electric drive systems and drive system components for the emerging green commercial vehicle market, has been invited to participate at today’s us air force industry event at los angeles air force base.
“it is important for customers and the government to understand our technology is production ready.
marco rodriguez, at stonegate securities inc. in dallas, said he has seen similar announcements before, but they haven’t led to major revenue gains for the company.
the 120kw ze drive system is currently being deployed to national fleets on the freightliner/daimler mt-45 ev step van chassis.
- zero greenhouse gas emissions, making it an ideal candidate for government and commercial fleets looking to reduce their carbon footprints.
enova has met with executive levels at the pentagon to further penetrate the available volume of government sourced vehicles.
“we are pleased to honor enova systems as a 2011 technology fast 500 company,” said mark jensen, managing partner, technology and venture capital services, deloitte & touchellp.
fccc also designs and manufactures alternative-fuel chassis for the commercial bus and motorhome market segments.
(many of those have gone out of business.)
staran continued, “we are also encouraged by the markets positive reception to enova’s re-designed and expanded product offering which will further broaden our sales opportunities in 2010.”
the u.s. air force has been evaluating the ze all-electric drive system for  more than 18 months, with positive results.
the rankings are based on percentage of fiscal year revenue growth during the period 2006 to 2010.
the  company develops, designs and produces non-invasive drive systems and related  components for electric, hybrid-electric, and fuel cell powered vehicles in  both the “new” and “retrofit” vehicle sales market.
financing, including grants and tax credits, will also be discussed.
freightliner custom chassis corporation manufactures premium chassis for  the motorhome, delivery walk-in van, and school bus and shuttle bus markets.
specific terms and share prices will be determined at the time of each offering under a separate prospectus supplement to be filed with thesec at the time of each offering.
introduced at the hybrid truck users forum (htuf), the new mt-ev was engineered with the fleet owner and driver in mind.
### about remy international, inc. remy international inc., headquartered in pendleton, indiana, is a leading global manufacturer, remanufacturer, and distributor, of light duty starters, alternators, and delco remy brand heavy-duty systems.
the enova ze is powered by enova’s 120kw all-electric drive system and is currently the only zero emissions solution for federal fleets in the step van category.
forward-looking statements  are statements that are not historical facts.
the jiefang 40 ft. long hybrid city bus can carry up to 103 passengers and travel at a speeds of over 50 miles per hour.
gsa, along with all federal agencies, has been tasked by president barack obama in a recent executive order to set and meet specific targets for increased energy efficiency, a 30% reduction in fleet petroleum consumption, and reduced emissions by 2020.
enova and remy signed a long-term electric motor supply agreement in march 2012.
under the five-year agreement, remy will provide its electric motors to enova for its all-electric drive systems.
with sustainability in mind, the green for freeâ¢ vehicle benefits from what is expected to be the lowest possible carbon footprint.
mr. fenton has indicated his willingness and availability, however, to support enova as needed during this transition.
he said part of the problem is that enova’s customers â manufacturers of electric and hybrid-electric trucks and buses â don’t sell as many vehicles to truck and bus fleet operators as initially forecast.
about freightliner custom chassis corporation: freightliner custom chassis corporation manufactures premium chassis for the motorhome, delivery walk-in van, and school bus and shuttle bus markets.
q3 results are expected to be released in mid november.
tel: +44 (0) 207 776 6550 oliver rigby may 16, 2011 torrance, ca may 16, 2011 â
fccc presented the preproduction all-electric wiv chassis model at the 2010 national truck equipment association (ntea) work truck show (booth #3035).
the company also has determined that, given its decision to continue trading onaim, it is in the company’s best interest to move its annual shareholder meeting previously scheduled for june 21, 2011 to the normal meeting time later in the year.
additionally, the mt ev chassis provides additional safety to drivers, such as a curb-side exit, walk-through cargo area and direct access to the cargo area from the driver’s station.
but enova’s staran said the two recent announcements can generate more significant revenue and eventually break the trend of losses.
the larger messaging center display area enables easier reading of fault codes and maintenance notifications.
“fccc is proud to continue to play an important role in daimler’s global initiative,” said randall.
also participating in the conference is key enova customer smith electric vehicles us, which will feature enova’s 120 kw all-electric drive train and on-board charging technology in their smith newton commercial delivery trucks.
powered by tesla motors lithium ion batteries, the chassis is 100 percent  electric, including itshvac system, making it the only fully featured wiv  chassis in the industry to be completely electrically powered.
this mitigates the need to rely on charging stations, which are currently intermittent at best in most countries.
so truck companies and fleet operators are reluctant to switch to electric drivetrains.
with the existing order book, and pending opportunities, we look to continue improving our revenue and positive margin growth.”
“as one of the fastest growing tech companies in north america, enova systems has demonstrated excellence in technological innovation, entrepreneurship and rapid growth.”
### about enova: enova systems (nyse amex:ena and aim: env and envs) is a leading supplier of efficient, environmentally friendly digital power components and systems products.
“the conference provides us the ideal platform to build awareness for  enova’s all-electric and hybrid electric drive system technologies for  use in medium and heavy-duty applications,” said john mullins,  enova’s chief operating officer.
fccc is already well-established in the market and can provide immediate volume, which is required to reduce high-cost components, such as batteries.
enova expects various fleet operators to retrofit existing vehicles to make them all-electrics, saving resources through using existing vehicle bodies.
“we encourage all government procurement officers to consider the road to reduced emissions with the enova ze.”
enova launched plans to develop and validate its next-generation of power electronics with the new omni-series 10kva power on-board charger for hybrid-electric and all-electric vehicles.
“while helping propel the  conversation about low and zero emission commercial transportation, we’ll  also be solidifying our position as a technology leader in this market.”
this sector includesups, federal express and other national fleet operators.
“enova is pleased to have been selected by gsa as the agency’s exclusive supplier of all-electric steps vans,” says mullins.
morgan olson is a subsidiary of j.b. poindexter & company, a houston-based holding company.
said staran, “having the enova ze at the ntea ride-and-drive allows us to demonstrate the many advantages of this clean vehicle technology”.
merriman capital, inc. is a wholly owned subsidiary of merriman holdings, inc. (otcqx: merr) and is the leading investment banking firm forotcqx companies.
these drive systems are âzero development time’ electric vehicle solutions, available immediately to government,oem, and private fleet operators.”
validation testing is planned to begin summer 2011 with introduction discussions already underway with various customers.
the shelf registration statement filed by enova systems with the sec has not yet become effective.
these statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as “believe,” “expect,” “may,” “will,” “should,’’ “could,” “project,” “plan,’’ “seek,” “intend,’’ or “anticipate’’ or the negative thereof or comparable terminology and statements about industry trends and enova’s future performance, operations and products.
it combines theenova omni series drive train with thefccc mt45 chassis, and a new morgan olson body design of greatly improved aerodynamics, a one-piece bonded windshield, an automotive-like quiet interior and recyclable composite body panels.
in 2000, the company changed its name to enova and moved into the burgeoning hybrid-electric vehicle market.
in related news, enova lauded smith electric vehicles’ (“smith”)
january 21, 2010 torrance, ca, january 21, 2010 – enova systems, inc (nyse: ena and aim :env and envs), a leading innovator of proprietary hybrid and electric drive systems propelling the alternative energy industry, today announced that it will be participating and presenting in three major trade events over the next few months: - the 2010 electric drive transportation association conference (edta), hosted in washington, dc on january 26 – 28, 2010.
the new converter will be available in 12v or 24v output configurations.
ceo and president of enova mike staran told newnet that after 30 years working in and researching the market, he believes that business transport is the best way to develop the clean transport sector.
for more information about the 2010edta conference, visit www.electricdrive.org.
these and other risks and uncertainties are detailed from time  to time in enova systems’ periodic filings with the securities and  exchange commission, including but not limited to enova’s annual report  on form 10-k for the year ended december 31, 2009.
can control based, the new omni charger offers increased flexibility, ease-of-integration and compatibility with a wide range of vehicle platforms.
the foundation of our success is to partner with companies whose innovative solutions set the standard for greater performance and less dependence on fossil fuels.”
in 2008,fccc introduced ecofredâ¢, the motorhome industry’s first hybrid-electric chassis, and thefccc mb-hev hybrid-electric commercial bus chassis in response to a growing customer demand for alternative-fuel power that provides the same excellent performance and durability as fccc’s premium diesel-powered chassis.
“fccc is clearly in a position to guide this segment to ev technology.
the development program with enova involved the engineering and integration of enova’s 120kw all-electric drive system technology into the new mt-45 chassis.
in the meantime, enova is exploring options to reduce the necessary levels of customers’ capital expenditure relating to new orders, thereby removing a major purchasing obstacle.
co-located with the washington, dc auto  show, this year’s conference will focus on the next generation of  zero-emission transportation.
it is available for immediate purchase by federal fleets through the general services administration.
(nyse amex: ena and aim: env and envs) today announced it ranked 220 on deloitte’s technology fast 500â¢, ranking of the 500 fastest growing technology, media, telecommunications, life sciences and clean technology companies in north america.
with a passenger car the distance travelled can vary each day and there is the possibility the vehicle will not be at the same location each night, making driving patterns less predictable.
enova shipped an additional fifty (50) hybrid drive systems tofaw in december 2011, andfaw just placed an incremental order of another 50 hybrid drive systems for delivery early this year.
“this is a very promising area because it’s usually cheaper to replace a drive system than it is to replace an entire vehicle,” calstart’s bousel said.
the company announced the sale of 11,250,000 shares of common stock, no par value, together warrants to purchase a like number of shares of the company’s common stock.
for much of its existence, the company focused on research and development and remained a small niche player, supplying small quantities of electric drive systems to vehicle manufacturers.
“this is not the first time enova has partnered with navistar to break new ground in clean vehicle technology,” said enovaceo and president mike staran.
the meeting confirmed the appointment of independent auditing firmpmb helin donovan, llp for 2012 and the re-election of directors richard davies, john micek, edwin riddell, roy roberts, michael staran and john wallace.
the enova ze’s zero emissions technology has captured the attention  of some of the largest commercialoems and fleet operators in the world.
“enova has been delivering proven electric drive systems to a diverse set of domestic and international customers and has the distinction of seeing more of its green drive systems on the road than any of its competitors.
the quiet operation of the all-electric chassis also makes for an enjoyable driver experience.
enova’s business strategy is focused on commercial fleets that have predictable drive routes, return to a company depot nightly, and are managed by expert logistics personnel.
these and other risks and uncertainties are detailed from time to time in enova systems’ periodic filings with the securities and exchange commission, including but not limited to enova’s annual report on form 10-k for the year ended decemberâ 31, 2009.
navistar continued to demonstrate its leadership in the american school bus market with its exclusivegsa contract to supply hybrid school buses.
the all-electric ford f150 will undergo a series of 3rd party testing at a nationally recognized clean vehicle testing center starting in june.
growth highlights: â¢ $2.9m in revenue for q1 2011, an increase of 217% over the same period in 2010 â¢ 164% increase in gross income for q1 2011 over the same period in 2010 â¢ 7th consecutive quarter with positive gross margins enova president and ceo mike staran stated “our 1st quarter revenues showed solid volume and our 7th consecutive quarter with positive margins.
in related news, enova lauded smith electric vehicles’
we are also finalizing design of a next generation on-board 10kw charger.
a typical fleet bus or truck lasts 10 to 12 years.
to download images associated with this press release, please visit: http://www.daimler-trucksnorthamerica.com/download/2010/03_10_fccc_enova.asp on the internet: visit the freightliner custom chassis corporation web site at www.freightlinerchassis.com for additionalfccc news and product information.
additionally, daniel stewart will provide analyst coverage for enova.
for further information please contact: enova systems, inc.
march 4, 2010 monaco audio february 1, 2010 sees other gsa wins with navistar hybrid school bus and smith electric vehicles’ newton van torrance, ca, february 1, 2010 – enova systems, inc. (nyse: ena and aim: env and envs), a leading innovator of proprietary hybrid and electric drive systems propelling the alternative energy industry, today announces the company has been awarded an exclusive supplier contract with the general services administration (gsa), which provides vehicles for government agencies and armed forces.
this first deployment of ev step vans is part of enova’s exclusive one-year renewable supplier contact with thegsa, which supplies vehicles for government agencies and armed forces.
april 13, 2011 enova management will be speaking at the 2011 annual electric drive transportation association (edta) conference from april 19 â 21, 2011.
savings related to reduced fuel consumption.
january 30, 2012 torrance, ca â january 30, 2012 – enova systems, inc. (nyse amex: ena and aim: env and envs) will attend and present at the merriman capital inc. (otcqx: merr)
smith most recently announced its intention to deploy vehicles in the all-electric school bus sector.
additional customer highlights include: â¢ first auto works (faw) collaborated with enova to develop a biaxial parallel hybrid power platform capable of idling starting/stopping, low-speed electric drive, separate drive, combined drive and regenerative braking.
following that launch and continuing in its legacy of designing alternative fuel products,fccc partnered with morgan olson to develop a ground-breaking body style to provide further benefits to the delivery van owner, as well as the driver.
instead, enova has been preparing to enter the engine retrofit market, specifically to help cash-strapped truck and fleet owners meet looming environmental deadlines.
he added, âthe most important thing for us is that we do not think the market is completely ready for anything with random drive-cycles.
the ford f-150 is the highest sales volume pick-up truck in the united states and has been integrated with a 90kw all-electric ze drive system.
these and other risks and uncertainties are detailed from time to time in enova systems’ periodic filings with the securities and exchange commission, including but not limited to enova’s annual report on form 10-k for the year ended december 31, 2010 and form 10-q for the quarterly period ending june 30, 2011.
the u.s. department of energy and transportation secretaries, steven chu and ray h. lahood, respectively, will kick-off the conference at the innovation motorcade in washington, d.c.
fccc, displaying a unique new aerodynamic body from morgan olson, impressed the conference audience with the vehicle.
this gives the company eight quarters of consecutive positive results.
china southern rail corporation limitedï¼csr) has recently purchased two (2) all-electric drive systems for integration into commercial bus applications.
- zero greenhouse gas emissions, making it an ideal candidate for  government and commercial fleets looking to reduce their carbon footprints.
for further information on the green for freeâ¢ initiative, see www.greenforfree.com.
a major uk based oem has recently awarded enova a contract as the production drive system supplier for their all electric buses.
the chevy express cargo van is one of the top selling domestic fleet vans in its vehicle classification and has been integrated with a 120kw all-electric ze drive system.
ideal for the pickup and delivery market, the mt-45 chassis boasts a gvwr of 14,000 to 19,500 lbs.
the all-electric chassis, developed in partnership with enova systems (nyse :ena andaim:env and envs), a leading developer and producer of electric and  hybrid-electric drive system technologies for commercial vehicleoems, is built  on the popularfccc mt-45 wiv chassis platform.
exciting partnerships with companies like lg chemical further confirm our technology and allow us to penetrate incremental opportunities within the expanding market.”
enova systems, inc. 1560
smith electric u.s. was recently awarded a $32 million grant by the u.s. department of energy (doe) which is being used to offset the cost of future vehicle development and to incentivize customers to participate in a vehicle demonstration program.
the company’s guidance for 2010 now calls for about $15 million in revenues, triple last year’s level.
the system is power source agnostic, easily installed in line or as a conversion system, and is versatile across a wide range of truck and van chassis.
“in partnership with enova we have developed an all-electric chassis  to meet the environmental, economic and performance needs of our commercial  vehicle customers,” said bob harbin,fccc president.
the regenerative braking system saves  energy by recycling and storing it, which can then be reused to propel the  vehicle instead of losing it to heat, as is the case with traditional brakes.
this press release does not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any securities covered by the registration statement.
members includes major vehicle manufacturers, utilities, battery, charging and component suppliers, trade associations, universities and research institutions, government agencies, non-profit organizations, fleet-users, retail outlets and consumers.
the 42-passenger newton school bus travels up to 100 miles on a single charge at speeds of up to 50 mph, and is intended for the fixed routes in urban areas most school buses take each day.
recentgsa announcement of the smith newton product offering in the medium and heavy duty vans category with agvwr of 25,500 lbs.
staran said, âour systems are designed for severe-duty, set drive-cycle, larger vehicles.
quiet, comfortable operation.
the instrumentation panel within the cab incorporates automotive styling and adds additional features that constantly monitor the ev operating system to provide the driver information, such as the battery state of charge data.
ardour capital is well known for publishing in-depth company research and extensive technology-focused reports.
enova systems, inc. (nyse amex: ena and aim: env and envs), a leading developer of proprietary hybrid electric and all-electric drive systems and drive system components for the emerging green commercial vehicle market, announced today completion of a financing and the results from its annual meeting held on friday, december 30, 2011.
electric  vehicles’ newton van torrance, ca, february 1, 2010 – enova systems, inc. (nyse: ena and  aim: env and envs), a leading innovator of proprietary hybrid and electric  drive systems propelling the alternative energy industry, today announces the  company has been awarded an exclusive supplier contract with the general  services administration (gsa), which provides vehicles for government agencies  and armed forces.
the company reported revenues of $6.6m and gross margins of 3.9%, despite a significant downturn in the overall electric and hybrid market.
this is the 1st of many scheduled events, which includes the portland international auto show on january 26-29th thatfccc and enova have scheduled to showcase this initiative.
“fccc and enova recognize that the green for freeâ¢ program is necessary in order to make all-electric vehicles more affordable, and therefore more accessible, to fleets,” said bob harbin,fccc president.
enova has not made a decision to make any offering at this time.
his knowledge of the company and understanding of finance are assuredly complementary to the company and our directives.”
for freeâ¢ program read more deloitte’s 2011 technology fast 500 read more trading update read more usaf industry event read more enova systems to present at ardour capital read more shelf registration read more hybridan results q2 2011 read more newenergyworldnetwork read more enova announces q2 2011 financial results read more enova systems announces decision to maintain aim status and appointment of new nominated advisor and broker read more enova systems announces q1 2011 revenue growth of 217% and 7th consecutive quarterly report with positive gross margins read more enova will be speaking at the upcoming edta (electric drive transportation association) conference in washington dc from april 19 - 21 read more enova showcases retrofit solutions at vtac, robins afb, georgia from april 6 -7 read more enova systems announces 327% growth in gross profit and 151% growth in revenues in 2010 read more enova will be at the upcoming ntea (national truck equipment association)
“as the all-electric truck industry continues to expand with more and more companies realizing the benefits associated with electric technology, smith and enova are ideally positioned to maximize penetration and cost effectiveness through high volume orders.”
the electric drive transportation association (edta) developed goelectricdrive.com with the support of a 62-member team representing auto, drive system, battery, charging and utility companies as well as industry and government organizations.
2011 accomplishments: some highlights of our accomplishments in 2011 include: â¢ green for freeâ¢.
the company’s revenue in the first quarter were $929,000, up 35 percent from first quarter 2009, but only about half of what rodriguez said investors had been expecting.
for more information, visit  www.freightlinerchassis.com.
for  more information, visit www.gsa.gov.
created for zero tailpipe emissions the mt-ev all-electric chassis utilizes enova systems’ 120kw all-electric drive system technology.
enova solidifies market leadership at three major upcoming trade events january 21, 2010 torrance, ca, january 21, 2010 – enova systems, inc (nyse: ena and aim :env and envs), a leading innovator of proprietary hybrid and electric drive  systems propelling the alternative energy industry, today announced that it  will be participating and presenting in three major trade events over the next  few months: - the 2010 electric drive transportation association conference (edta),  hosted in washington, dc on january 26 – 28, 2010.
on the website consumers can calculate savings, find incentives, learn about the environmental benefits of owning an electric car, and view some of the new plug-in electric vehicles available or coming soon to auto showrooms.
october 20, 2010 torrance, ca, october 20, 2010 â
tel: 310-527-2800 contact: jarett fenton cfo/investor relations september 29, 2010 dearborn, mich. â sept. 28, 2010 â freightliner custom chassis corporation (fccc) and morgan olson llc today launched the next generation vehicle with new exterior and interior body styling for its successful all-electric walk-in van (wiv).
“enova is pleased to enter this partnership and support fccc”.
recently, enova has partnered with freightliner custom chassis corporation (fccc ), to integrate and deploy this innovative technology with the mt-45 walk-in van chassis, with deployment to national fleet operator(s) in the first quarter of 2010.
the inverter is fully production validated and enova is currently coordinating introduction of the omni inverter with various customers.
for further information, contact enova systems directly, or visit its web site at http://www.enovasystems.com.
enova has recently shipped an already announced order of fifty (50) systems in q4 2011 and is working on additional incremental orders in 2012.
“our vision is  clearly focused on transitioning the all-electric chassis into the mainstream  of our walk-in van production programs.
enova is coordinating the introduction of the new charger with various customers.
these forward-looking statements are subject to and qualified by certain risks and uncertainties.
taking into account wind flow over the hood and cab, the headlamps and mirrors of the body were designed to be aerodynamic, further improving upon the vehicle’s efficiency.
staran said, âthere are many people out there today who are putting battery packs on vehicles with a range of 100 plus miles per charge, which is very impressive, and we can do it
enova systems ceo mike staran is scheduled to present friday, sept. 16, with one-on-one meetings held throughout the day on both the 15th and 16th.
here you will find our most current press releases and announcements detailing how we’re moving clean vehicle technology forward.
“this will allow enova to apply its state-of-the-art omni controller technology to remy’s advanced newhvh permanent magnet motors to deliver a high-performance solution for hybrid and all-electric vehicles,” said enovaceo and president mike staran.
the company will use the net proceeds of the financing to complete validation and realize volume scalability for its new omni drive system, and to continue to execute on the recently announced green for freeâ¢ initiative in conjunction with freightliner.
presentation ardour capital investments, llc, based in new york city, provides financial services to the energy technology sector.
smith produces the newtonâ¢ and the edisonâ¢. enova systems ceo mike staran commented, “smith electric vehicles continues to show a strong commitment to both enova and the electric vehicle segment.
additionally the company highlights a production intent battery supply from compact power inc., a subsidiary of lg chem.
parties interested in scheduling a meeting with enova at this conference are urged to contact jarett fenton at (310) 527-2800 ext.
enova systems, inc. (nyse amex: ena and aim: env and envs), a leading developer of proprietary hybrid electric and all-electric drive systems and drive system components for the emerging green commercial vehicle market, has been invited to participate at a freightliner sponsored clean tech conference in salem, oregon.
such recognition will allow us to further expand the penetration of our drive system technology into government fleets as they consider their options in meeting president obama’s order.”
other enova activities: enova recently spoke (or will speak) at: â¢ lazard capital market’s 3rd annual alternative energy investor summit in new york on june 1-2.
for further information, contact the enova systems gsa hotline directly at (310) 527-2800 ext.
“while helping propel the conversation about low and zero emission commercial transportation, we’ll also be solidifying our position as a technology leader in this market.”
further, it has been recently announced that commuters and bus passengers across england will see more eco-friendly buses on the roads, congestion reduced, and services upgraded, thanks to a new £101 million package of improvements approved by local transport minister norman baker.
for further information, contact enova systems directly, or visit its web site at www.enovasystems.com.
as part of the contract, enova will supply enova ze all-electric walk-in  step vans togsa with a gvwr between 10,001 and 16,000 lbs.
the new omni-series charger also offers increased flexibility, ease-of-integration and compatibility with a wide range of vehicle platforms.
“with more smith newton trucks on the road powered by enova’s all-electric drive systems, we’re making great strides toward zero-emission vehicles.”
we thank mr. fenton for his services and efforts to enova.
“our partnership further demonstrates that the appetite for these products is growing.
to learn more, visit the remy brand website at www.remyinc.com.
enova applies unique ‘enabling technologies’ in the  areas of alternative energy propulsion systems for light and heavy-duty  vehicles as well as power conditioning and management systems for distributed  generation systems.
for the first of these events, enova will be joining a prestigious panel of  speakers at the 2010edta conference.
tom quinn, the director for the hawaii center for advanced transportation technology (hcatt) says, “the enova ze has performed exceptionally well for the u.s. air force.
relations additional information: this news release contains forward-looking statements relating to enova systems and its products that are intended to be covered by the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by the private securities litigation reform act of 1995.
contact: guy westermeyer, 317.517.5893 guy@westcommonline.com matt steward, 317.270.4898 msteward@westcommonline.com about enova: enova systems (nyse amex:ena and aim: env and envs) is a leading supplier of efficient, environmentally friendly digital power components and systems products.
to view new promotional video for ze electric delivery and service van, please click here to view new promotional video for green for freeâ¢ mt e-cell pure electric walk in van, please click here april 20, 2012 torrance, ca â april 20, 2012 â enova systems inc. (nyse amex: ena and aim: env and envs), (the “company”) announced that, on april 17, 2012, it received notice from thenyse amex llc (the “exchange”) indicating that the company is not in compliance with one of the exchange’s continued listing standards as set forth in part 10 of the exchange’s company guide (the “company guide”), and the company has therefore become subject to the procedures and requirements of section 1009 of the company guide.
the durable steel straight-rail chassis frame reduces flex and bowing to minimize stress while carrying heavy payloads.
the company believes this decision will best serve the interests of its shareholders, many of whom indicated a desire to continue to support the company through its quotation onaim.
mr. staran added, “john provides us a level of experience and knowledge that will advance our ability to achieve our financial goals.
along with the all-electric chassis, fccc has extensive experience  manufacturing compressed natural gas (cng) wiv chassis, currently manufactures  hybrid-electric vehicle (hev) chassis and will offer full production of the  hydraulic hybrid vehicle (hhv) chassis in q4 2010 for the walk-in van market  segment.
- the national truck equipment association “work truck show” and green truck summit conference at america’s center in st. louis, mo, on march 9-12, 2010.
edta’s membership includes vehicle and equipment manufacturers, energy companies, technology developers, component suppliers, government agencies and others.
the green for freeâ¢ program will utilize thefccc all-electric walk-in van (wiv) chassis powered by the new state of the art enova omni drive system.
enova and fccc have defined the green for freeâ¢ program as a new sustainable transportation model in which both companies are working in partnership with commercial fleets to offer a transportation model that provides clean, safe domestic and renewable energy.
enova will display, along with partner daimler freightliner custom chassis (“freightliner”), its 120kw all-electric drive system technology integrated with a freightliner mt-45 walk-in van chassis.
but with the company posting losses for the last several years, will these contracts be enough to pull the company out of the red?
“we are pleased that our technology has been recognized by the federal government and we are fully prepared to supportgsa’s efforts to meet their targets as mandated by president obama.”
in 2006 ashok became the first automobile company in india to achieve the internationally renowned ts16949 certification.
the full-feature gauge and informational display includes a larger messaging center display area, prognostic information and is completely sealed, fully protecting it from dust and water projected from backsplash.
“enova systems is a valued partner in smith electric’s production chain, allowing us to produce the best all-electric trucks on the market,” said bryan hansel,ceo of smith.
conceived and developed with a contemporary fresh automotive approach, the vehicle maintains the hardworking heritage customers expect while ultimately contributing to the bottom line.
fccc maintains a dominant market share in thewiv chassis market, which it expects to continue to expand.
the company plans to put a copy of the presentation on its website (www.enovasystems.com) soon after the conference.
john is a cum laude graduate of santa clara university, mr. micek completed his law degree at the university of san francisco school of law, where he was senior articles editor of the law review.
we continue to pave the way towards zero  emissions commercial transportation and solidifying our position as a  technology leader in this nascent government market,” says john mullins,  enova’s chief operating officer.
forward-looking statements are statements that are not historical facts.
these alternative-power vehicles have proven to offer significant fuel savings benefits.
enova systems, inc. (nyse amex :ena and aim: env and envs), a leading developer of proprietary hybrid electric and all-electric drive systems and drive system components for the emerging green commercial vehicle market, releases its financial results for q2 2011.
these programs improve the value proposition for early adopters and help drive demand in this nascent market.”
enova systems, inc. (nyse amex: ena and aim: env and envs), a production company in an emerging industry and a leading developer of proprietary electric, hybrid and fuel cell digital power management systems has filed its 2009 annual report on form 10-k. enova president and ceo mike staran commented, “in 2009, enova continued to expand itsoem portfolio and build on its existing partner relationships.
enova is finalizing design and validation test plans for the new omni-series 10kw on-board battery charger for plug-in hybrid-electric and all-electric vehicles.
enova systems, inc. (nyse amex: ena and aim: env and envs), a production company in an emerging industry and a leading developer of proprietary electric, hybrid and fuel cell digital power management systems, today announced financial results for its third quarter of fiscal year 2010 and noted positive highlights for the year.
there will also be a lunchtime keynote panel on investing in emerging markets with a focus on africa.
“these developments have begun to separate us from the pack and make us a legitimate company in people’s eyes,” staran said in an interview in late may before taking off on a road show to promote enova’s products to potential customers.
the mt-ev wiv boasts a lightweight, aerodynamic design for improved efficiency.
(iii) with stockholders’ equity of less than $6,000,000 and losses from continuing operations and/or net losses in five consecutive fiscal years.
hosted at america’s center in st. louis, mo on march 9 – 12,  2010, this trade event will prominently feature enova’s all-electric  drive train technology for commercial vehicles at a number of venues.
well  before stimulus money and federal grants were available for alternative-power  transportation projects.
this order for 16 enova-powered hybrid school buses solidifies both our companies’ positions as industry leaders.”
participating in one of these sessions, enova systems chief executive officer mike staran and chief financial officer jarett fenton will discuss enova’s technology, products, growing customer base and expanding market opportunity, as well as the competitive landscape.
in 2000, he negotiated the sale of universal warranty corporation (uwc) to gmaci, and remained on the board of uwc from 2000-2003.
gsa procures vehicles for government agencies and the armed forces.
smith (www.smithelectric.com) develops, produces and sells zero-emission commercial electric vehicles that are designed to be an alternative to traditional diesel trucks, providing higher efficiency and lower total cost of ownership.
tel: 310-527-2800 contact: john micek, cfo/investor relations merriman capital, inc. is an investment banking firm providing equity and options execution services, market making, and differentiated research for high growth companies.
the batteries featured on the electric system also capture and store energy during the regenerative braking phase of the vehicle’s operation.
march 10, 2010 gaffney, s.c. – march 10, 2010 – freightliner custom chassis corporation (fccc) continues its legacy of engineering alternative-power products for the commercial vehicle industry with the introduction of its highly anticipated plug-in all-electric walk-in van (wiv) chassis.
â¢ freightliner custom chassis corporation (“fccc”), a division of daimler trucks north america.
the company was also recently visited by president obama, who toured the facilities and applauded smith’s commitment to greening our nation’s fleets.
for more details about the hvh250 series electric motors visit the remy website at: http://www.remyinc.com/hvh.asp.
the mt-ev (thefccc model name) chassis boasts a gvwr of 14,000 to 19,500 lbs.
customer orders decreased dramatically in the second half of the year due to tightened government and school district budgets, which resulted in a decrease in orders for our customers’ vehicles.
the green for freeâ¢ program will utilize thefccc all-electric walk-in van (wiv) chassis powered by the enova drive system.
enova systems, inc. (nyse amex: ena and aim: env and envs), a leading developer of proprietary hybrid electric and all-electric drive systems and drive system components for the emerging green commercial vehicle market, is pleased to announce that it has delivered 4 incremental 120kw drive systems to optare plc for integration into their solo electric bus.
recentgsa announcement of the smith newton product  offering in the medium and heavy duty vans category with agvwr of 25,500 lbs.
the model is based on a standard 27-seat 8.8 meter solo, but the technology can be used on other models in the optare range with higher passenger capacities.
the company’s core competencies are focused on the development and commercialization of power management and conversion systems for mobile applications.
enova andfccc have developed an integration method for both new and retrofit applications.
the company was founded in 1976 as u.s. electricar inc. and was one of the first companies in the electric vehicle market.
smith electric u.s. was awarded a $32 million grant by the u.s. department of energy (doe) which is being used to offset the cost of future vehicle development and to incentivize customers to participate in a vehicle demonstration program.
it serves as the unified voice of a diverse industry, and the primary source of information and education related to electric drive.
fccc’s mt 45 chassis is built at their zero waste to landfill plant in gaffney sc.enova and fccc are currently working together on the selection of the battery supplier for this vehicle which is anticipated to be announced in the coming weeks.
the company is making retro-fit modifications for businesses such as ups and fed ex, and has formed a partnership with us commercial vehicle giant daimler freightliner, which lays claim to 90 per cent of the fleet delivery market.
click here to view 9/15
enova will be presenting.
â¢ navistar and enova continue to lead the hybrid school bus market.
conference attendees will also have the opportunity to experience the outstanding performance, zero emissions and quiet ride offered by the enova ze, the company’s all-electric walk-in van designed and developed by enova’s vehicle integration team.
enova systems, inc. (nyse amex :ena and aim: env and envs), a leading developer of proprietary hybrid electric and all-electric drive systems and drive system components for the emerging green commercial vehicle market, announces its financial results for q1 2011.
but analyst rodriguez said that for enova to really capitalize on this market, it will have to scale up production.
today, there are more than 90,000 customer-validated remy motors on the road.
smith has placed an order for 50 units of enova’s 120kw drive system.
“we will continue to innovate and enhance our technology to deliver economic value and payback for ouroem partners and their fleet customers.”
following the edta conference, enova will present at the cleanequity monaco  2010 conference, held march 4 – 5, 2010 at the le sporting d’hiver,  place du casino in the principality of monaco.
this enables the driver to respond accordingly while potentially increasing efficiency.
these statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as “believe,” “expect,” “may,” “will,” “should,” “could,”“project,” “plan,” “seek,” “intend,” or “anticipate” or the negative thereof or comparable terminology and statements about industry trends and enova’s future performance, operations and products.
company presentations will be held in three tracks throughout the day.
fleet vehicles targeted with the green for freeâ¢ program stand out as possessing unique characteristics that make them clear beneficiaries of electric drive technology.
smith has manufacturing facilities in kansas city, missouri, and outside of newcastle, uk.
edta is dedicated to advancing electric drive as a foundation for sustainable transportation.
among those attending the conference are a number of  prominent legislators and representatives from government agencies that have  been tasked with reducing their carbon footprints and reducing u.s. dependence  on imported oil.
enova systems, inc. (nyse amex: ena and aim: env and envs), a leading developer of proprietary hybrid electric and all-electric drive systems and drive system components for the emerging green commercial vehicle market, has been invited to present at the ardour capital ninth annual energy technology conference.
we look forward to moving our partnership, and clean vehicle technology forward.”
by focusing on drive-cycles that are 30 miles or less, there is much more opportunity to get a pay-back â to get a volume increase that can ultimately lead to reducing battery cost â which will then ultimately reduce costs for the longer ranges.
in 2008,fccc introduced  ecofred™, the motorhome industry’s first hybrid-electric chassis,  and thefccc mb-hev hybrid-electric commercial bus chassis in response to a  growing customer demand for alternative-fuel power that provides the same  excellent performance and durability asfccc’s premium diesel-powered  chassis.
it was founded by calstart and the u.s. army tank automotive research, development and engineering center’s national automotive center (nac).
for further information, contact the enova systemsgsa hotline directly at (310) 527-2800 ext.
said staran, “having the enova ze at the ntea ride-and-drive allows  us to demonstrate the many advantages of this clean vehicle technology”.
mike staran, enova president and ceo said “we are pleased that our collaboration withfccc is maturing at a rapid pace and look forward to the industry’s continued interest in green for freeâ¢.” the green for freeâ¢ program allows fleet executives over the life of a vehicle a cost model for an all-electric vehicle to be the same, or better than, a diesel-powered commercial vehicle.
additionally, and announced on march 23, 2012, commuters and bus passengers across england will see more eco-friendly buses on the roads, congestion reduced and services upgraded, thanks to a new £101 million package of improvements approved by local transport minister norman baker.
these vehicles have it, but passenger cars don’t have that life cycle.
we will continue this path as well as mature other initiatives that are intended to improve distribution channels.”
“we won’t be able to grow into a $100 million company until there are batteries available with warranties of at least seven years,” staran said.
however, this is the first program that will eliminate the overall incremental costs associated with buying and operating an all-electric vehicle, making the program attractive to fleets that are both large and small.
other industry activities: overall, the hybrid electric and all-electric commercial vehicle industry has experienced an active growth in demand and activity.
â which is capable of handling heavy payloads.
with enova’s reputation for reliability, remy is a perfect partner,” said mike staran,ceo and president for enova.
companies must have base-year operating revenues of at least $50,000usd or cd, and current-year operating revenues of at least $5 millionusd or cd.
this briefing was key to showcasing the benefits of a non-invasive, retrofit solution to the usaf’s existing flightline van fleet.
enova systems, inc. ( nyse amex: ena and aim: env and envs), a leading developer of proprietary hybrid electric and all-electric drive systems and drive system components for the emerging green commercial vehicle market, is pleased to announce that a pre-production vehicle resulting from enova’s and freightliner custom chassis corp’s (fccc) recently announced green for freeâ¢ initiative (www.greenforfree.com) will continue to be on display at various locations along the us west coast.
throughout the event, enova will actively support freightliner customer chassis corporation (a division of daimler trucks north america), who is partnering with enova to develop and integrate all-electric walk-in van chassis targeted at the parcel delivery and urban route delivery fleet market.
companies like gm, daimler, allison transmission, andamp electric vehicles have chosen the remyhvh electric motor for its superior power density, efficiency and reliability.
“enova is pleased to partner with smith in this major milestone toward greening our nation’s commercial trucks.
these subsidies reduce the price point of enova’s emissions reducing and fuel efficient technology as well as improve the payback period for early adopters positioning enova for growth in 2010.”
â¢ smith electric vehicles (sev) and enova continue to penetrate the us market.
attendees from all the air force major command headquarters transportation / vehicle maintenance staff along with representatives from the vehicle directorate at robinsafb and from air force bases across the country were in attendance (approximately 85 attendees attended the conference).
and can a company with a mere $5.6 million in revenue last year continue to snag contracts as it goes up against multibillion-dollar companies eager to get a piece of the electric vehicle market?
“the initial u.s. army order allows us to demonstrate the efficiencies and robust performance of the van under demanding real-world drive cycles,” added mullins.
five bus manufacturers, including optare, are expected to benefit from orders for their eco-friendly hybrid, electric and gas buses.
gross profit decreased to $0.3m in 2011 from $1.4m in 2010, and, in q4, we swung to a gross loss of $618,000 from gross profit of $751,000 in the same period in 2010.
enova supports this commitment by engineering a post-transmission hybrid drive system that integrates easily and non-invasively” enova anticipates an increase in demand for hybrid school buses powered by enova’s drive system technologies.
powered by tesla motors’ lithium-ion batteries, the chassis is 100 percent electric, including itshvac system, making it the only fully featuredwiv chassis in the industry to be completely electrically powered.
the green for free program relies on the life cycle cost savings of an all electric vehicle versus a typical commercial vehicle to cover additional expense associated with purchasing an all electric vehicle, making the program attractive to fleets both large and small without need of government subsidies.
enova systems is fulfilling orders of its drive system to smith electric vehicles for both the uk and us initiatives, with shipments scheduled in 2010 in anticipation of orders for the smith newton.
highlights of 2009 results: about enova: enova systems (http://www.enovasystems.com) is a leading supplier of efficient, environmentally friendly digital power components and systems products.
contact: ryan taylor tel.:
staran said companies running commercial fleets know exactly how many miles their vehicles travel each day and know where they are going to be at night.
the regenerative braking system saves energy by recycling and storing it, which can then be reused to propel the vehicle instead of losing it to heat, as is the case with traditional brakes.
enova andfccc anticipate traction regarding this initiative,and expect to showcase further details at multiple events in 2012, including the recentntea work truck show and the upcoming evs 26 conference, to be held in may at the los angeles convention center.
for further information, contact enova systems directly, or visit http://www.enovasystems.com.
this order follows two from earlier in the year, totaling 120 units year-to-date, and will be installed into the smith newton truck in kansas city.
august 15, 2011 us hybrid and electric vehicle specialist enova told newnet it is expecting the green transport market for commercial vehicles to explode over the next few years.
remy’s patented design and assembly technology have been in production since 2006 and are currently powering vehicles around the world.
since the 2008 olympics in beijing, enova systems and first auto works have deployed nearly 500 vehicles, all utilizing enova’s pre-transmission hybrid drive system components.
the portland international auto show estimates that around 150,000 attendees will have the opportunity to view the latest green, alternative fuel and electric vehicle concepts at the auto show’s eco center.
the financing was managed by merriman capital, inc., and led by anthony b. low-beer.
fccc and enova plan to deploy a total of 3,000 alternative-fuel vehicles within a two-year time frame beginning no later than the third quarter 2012 as a result of the green for freeâ¢ program.
optare has recently awarded enova a contract as the production drive system supplier for their all electric buses.
november 16, 2011 torrance, ca â nov. 16, 2011 â
“remy has a strong and deep legacy of superior engineering and quality.
“this award recognizes smith’s leadership role in building the foundation for an all-electric commercial truck industry in this county,” said u.s. senator claire mccaskill (d-mo) who announced thedoe award in march.
“the enova ze is a perfect fit for u.s. government agency fleets that are looking to meet emissions targets.
june 20, 2011 torrance, calif. – enova systems inc. (“the company”) ( nyse amex: ena) (aim: env) (aim: envs) ), a leading developer of proprietary hybrid electric and all-electric drive systems and drive system components for the emerging green commercial vehicle market, has determined to maintain the listing of its ordinary shares on theaim exchange.
this order is a part of the expected 500+ units through 2011 funded via the $32mdoe award granted to sev earlier this year.
at the 2009ntea work truck show, fccc introduced its hhv chassis to the commercial vehicle industry.
demand for non-plug-in hybrid school buses is expected to increase with the emergence of capable charge-sustaining batteries.
these  forward-looking statements are subject to and qualified by certain risks and  uncertainties.
along with the all-electric chassis, fccc has extensive experience manufacturing compressed natural gas (cng) wiv chassis, currently manufactures hybrid-electric vehicle (hev) chassis, and will offer full production of the hydraulic hybrid vehicle (hhv) chassis in q1 2011 for the walk-in van market segment.
enova chief executive mike staran thinks the answer is yes on both counts.
powered by tesla motors’ lithium-ion batteries, the chassis is 100 percent electric, including itshvac system, making it the only fully featured wiv chassis in the industry to be completely electrically powered.
fccc’s electric vehicles employ enova’s mt-ev chassis, with a durable frame and agvwr of 14,000 to 19,500 lbs.
103 or allen & caron inc., enova’s agency for investor relations  and corporate communications at (949) 474-4300.
â¢ first auto works (“faw”).
enova has already proved it’s a survivor.
customer highlights: confirming q1 2011 performance, enova shipped the following: â¢ charge-depleting plug-in hybrid school bus systems delivered to navistar â¢ full ev drive systems and other system components delivered to smith us (sev) and smith europe â¢ pre-transmission sets delivered to first auto works (faw) â¢ post transmission sets delivered to first auto works ( faw) â¢ full ev drive systems and other system components delivered to freightliner custom chassis (fccc)
september 15, 2011 click here to view 9/15
senior executives from more than 40 innovative, fast-growing u.s. and international companies will present and conduct one-on-one meetings with institutional investors.
“we are pleased that our technology has been recognized  by the federal government and we are fully prepared to supportgsa’s  efforts to meet their targets as mandated by president obama.”
staran commented: “the current rate of growth in the alternative  energy industry makes this an ideal time for us to drive broad visibility to  potential stakeholders.”
the yet to be announcedoem designs, manufactures and sells single deck and double deck buses and mini coaches.
enova president and ceo mike staran stated, “we look forward to participating in the various goelectricdrive initiatives and identify the commercial fleet vehicle market as a focal point for this impressive group of industry leaders that are participating.”
this is due to reduced demand from its two largest customers as a result of further economic uncertainty.
ashok has seven plants in india, one in the czech republic and one in the middle east with a current global capacity of over 150,000 buses and trucks.
further to the announcement made on april 21, 2011, and in light of discussions with a number of the company’s shareholders, the board has reviewed its decision to cancel its admission of ordinary shares to trading onaim and has decided to maintain its aim quotation.
enova continues to supplyfaw drive systems for their hybrid buses.
- the cleanequity monaco 2010 conference, held march 4 – 5, 2010, at the le sporting d’hiver, place du casino in the principality of monaco.
in august 2008, daimler announced the opening of the global hybrid center at mitsubishi fuso truck and bus corporation in kawasaki, japan.
smith electric vehicles (sev) and enova have begun shipment of its 90kw all-electric drive system for integration into the smith edison vehicle, currently manufactured in the uk.
enova systems, inc (nyse: ena and aim: env andenvs) is a leading developer and producer of electric and hybrid-electric drive system technologies for commercial vehicleoems.
at the 2009ntea work truck show, fccc introduced itshhv chassis to the commercial vehicle industry.
“enova now has to prove it is quicker and more nimble than those companies.”
june 14, 2010 los angeles business journal monday, june 14, 2010 by howard fine has enova systems finally had a breakthrough?
about enova enova systems (http://www.enovasystems.com) is a leading supplier of efficient, environmentally friendly digital power components and systems products.
“enova has engineered their drive systems to easily and non-invasively integrate with our vehicle.
“unlike competitive models, our all-electric chassis is custom-built from the ground up for the walk-in van market, integrating the proven ergonomic advantages ofwiv bodies,” harbin added.
â¢ u.s. general services administration (“gsa”).gsa extended its contract with enova as the exclusive supplier contracted for the all-electric step van.
this new chassis has a flat-leaf spring front and rear suspension, allowing for a smooth, solid ride that minimizes cargo shifts on uneven road surfaces.
this new chassis has a flat-leaf spring front and rear  suspension, allowing for a smooth, solid ride that minimizes cargo shifts on  uneven road surfaces.
presentation enova systems to present at the ardour capital 9th annual energy technology conference torrance, ca, september 15, 2011 â
remy is north america’s largest independent manufacturer of advanced electric propulsion motors.
the htuf conference takes place sept. 28-30, in dearborn, mich.
fccc was the first chassis manufacturer to bring the hybrid-electric vehicle and all-electric vehicle to market.
the enova post-transmission hybrid drive  technology couples a diesel engine with an 80 kw drive train that incorporates  a control unit, a li-ion battery pack and an electric motor.
these and other risks and uncertainties are detailed from time to time in enova systems’ periodic filings with the securities and exchange commission, including but not limited to enova’s annual report on form 10-k for the year ended december 31, 2009.
enova systems (nyse:ena and aim:env and envs) is a leading supplier of efficient, environmentally friendly digital power components and systems products.
but the batteries that power the electric drivetrain only have warranties that last three years, and they cost thousands of dollars to replace.
it recently awarded a $7m grant for four fuel cell developers and awarded $11m to ev battery developer nanosys.
street torrance, ca 90501 october 12, 2011 torrance, ca, october 12, 2011 enova systems, inc. (nyse amex: ena and aim: env and envs), a leading developer of proprietary hybrid electric and all-electric drive systems and drive system components for the emerging green commercial vehicle market, announces that revenue for the third and fourth quarters of 2011 is expected to be materially below that experienced in the first half of the current calendar year.
for more information about ardour capital, visit www.ardourcapital.com.
these alternative-power vehicles have proven to offer significant fuel  savings benefits.
this announcement is being made in compliance with section 401(h) and section 610(b) of thenyse amex company guide which require a nyse amex listed issuer receiving an audit opinion with a going concern qualification to make a public announcement to that effect.
in november 2011, enova announced its green for freeâ¢ program, which is designed to allow fleet executives to operate full 100% electric commercial vehicles (evs) for similar life cycle costs as those of diesel-powered commercial vehicles.
fccc viewed the all-electric project as the logical  next step in its alternative-power product offerings, as well as a strategic  opportunity to continue its leadership role in thewiv industry.”
“competitor chassis are a  cab chassis configuration and end up as box trucks typically built for the  trucking industry.
featuring an industry-leading intelligent design, the omni series is designed to deliver increased power, greater efficiencies and economic advantages for manufacturers of medium and heavy-duty ev andhev commercial vehicles.
there’s been another problem, too, especially with all-electric drivetrains: limited battery life.
for more information, visit www.gsa.gov.
these and other risks and uncertainties are detailed from time to time in enova systems’ periodic filings with the securities and exchange commission, including but not limited to enova’s annual report on form 10-k for the year ended december 31, 2010 and most recent form 10-q for the fiscal quarter ended june 30, 2011.
optare awarded enova a contract as the production drive system supplier for their all electric buses.
he added, “we are honored by our ranking in the technology fast 500â¢ and thank our customers for their ongoing support”.
tel: 310-527-2800 contact: john micek, cfo/investor relations about daniel stewart: daniel stewart & co is an investment bank offering both corporate advisory and institutional stockbroking services and focusing on small and mid-size companies.
the enova post-transmission hybrid drive technology couples a diesel engine with an 80 kw drive train that incorporates a control unit, a li-ion battery pack and an electric motor.
freightliner custom chassis (fccc) and enova supplied the industry’s first all electric vehicle retrofits deployed by any major fleet operator.
fccc and enova plan to gradually deploy a total of 3,000 alternative-fuel vehicles beginning in the second half of 2012 as a result of the green for freeâ¢ program.
fccc’s commitment to green technologies is in line  with daimler ag’s global initiative called, “shaping future  transportation.”
customer highlights: first auto works (faw) has expanded their market opportunity by joint development, with enova, of a post transmission system option.
the u.s. general services administration (gsa) is a mandatory source for  vehicles under federal property management regulation 101-26.501 that purchases  vehicles at a savings from the manufacturer’s list price.
enova also announced that all resolutions at the annual meeting of shareholders were passed.
conference attendees will also have the opportunity to experience the  outstanding performance, zero emissions and quiet ride offered by the enova ze,  the company’s all-electric walk-in van designed and developed by  enova’s vehicle integration team.
that means enova’s end-users tend to be those truck and bus companies, and fleet operators that choose to be early adopters of electric vehicle technology and as such are willing to take the risk of frequent battery replacement.
for 12, 14, and 16 foot body lengths.
it focuses on small capitalization growth companies.
he is licensed to practice law in california, where his practice focused on financial services.
enova systems, inc (nyse amex: ena and aim: env and envs), a leading innovator of proprietary hybrid and electric drive systems propelling the alternative energy industry, has expanded its all electric zero emissions (ze) drive system offerings to include a ford f-150 utility truck and chevrolet express cargo van.
enova andfccc began deploying new and retrofit all-electric vehicles to major fleet customers in 2011.
other enova activities:
on the heels of the cleanequity monaco 2010 conference, enova will also  participate in the national truck equipment association (ntea)
the company’s ev battery business is expected to generate $901 million in sales by 2013.
our strategies are generating reliable sales growth, strong market position and continued demand for our technology.”
please check out the edta website if you are interested in attending april 7, 2011
“both companies started with a clean sheet of paper and very strong ideas about the statement the newwiv should make.
this recent order follows three previous orders fromsev totaling 220 units for 2010.
additional incremental customer highlights include: first auto works (faw) has expanded their market opportunity by joint development, with enova, of a post transmission system option.
addressing the discussion in the industry surrounding recent federal funding for all-electric technology, jonathan randall, sales and marketing director atfccc added, “fccc initiated our all-electric project well before stimulus money and federal grants were available for alternative-power transportation projects.
enova believes it is well positioned with the industry’s leadingoems and continues working on initiatives for market penetration.
other positive highlights: about enova: enova systems (http://www.enovasystems.com) is a leading supplier of efficient, environmentally friendly digital power components and systems products.
first auto works is one of china’s largest vehicle producers, manufacturing in excess of 1,000,000 vehicles annually.
we are enthusiastic that the funding and recent visit by president obama validate our confidence that the market is about to grow rapidly,” said enovaceo and president mike staran.
this new program demonstrates thatfccc remains fully committed to engineering chassis options that lower operating costs and decrease carbon footprints for our customers”.
a portion of the project was completed in q4 2010 and the remainder of this $1m+ contract is expected to be completed in 2011.
in addition, the vehicle charging system is incorporated into the overall operating system so no exterior devices are required to charge the truck.
enova systems ceo mike staran stated, “this incremental deployment of the ze all electric drive system is an important step as enova continues to introduce industry defining products.
“we are pleased with the continued progress of our work with fccc ,” said enovaceo and president mike staran.
we think you need to do the ups’s and fed ex’s of the world that have very specific drive-cycles that come back to a depot every single night but with very limited infrastructure.
about enova: enova systems (http://www.enovasystems.com) is a leading supplier of efficient, environmentally friendly digital power components and systems products.
the new green for freeâ¢ zero tailpipe emissions vehicle boasts agvwr of 14,000 to 19,500 lbs and symbolizes the coming of age of full electric state of the art technology.
the deal involved ashok leyland increasing its holding in optare to 75.1% allowing optare to become fully integrated in ashok’s ambitious global bus strategy which seeks to maintain and improve on its top fifth place amongst the world’s bus makers.
“enova’s drive systems offer the ideal technology for our smith newton vehicles,” said bryan hansel,ceo of smith.
power-source agnostic,
staran added, “on the heels of another positive quarter, we anticipate that our current cash balance and projected cash inflow from customer receivables will be adequate to meet our working capital and capital expenditure needs for at least the next 12 months.”
“in partnership with enova we have developed an all-electric chassis to meet the environmental, economic and performance needs of our commercial vehicle customers,” said bob harbin,fccc president.
enova systems (nyse:ena and aim:env and envs) is a leading supplier of  efficient, environmentally friendly digital power components and systems  products.
freightliner custom chassis is very pleased to be partnering with enova to promote this program, and we are thus equally pleased with the reaction our chassis is receiving at the various shows in which we are attending.”
on the internet: visit the freightliner custom chassis corporation website at www.freightlinerchassis.com for additionalfccc news and product information.
the company continues to build on more than 20 years of innovation and traces its roots back to general motors’ ev1 electric car.”
gsa, along with all federal agencies, has been tasked by  president barack obama in a recent executive order to set and meet specific  targets for increased energy efficiency, a 30% reduction in fleet petroleum  consumption, and reduced emissions by 2020.
the sales turnover of ashok in 2010-11 was us $ 2.5 billion.
â¢ optare plc (“optare”).
enova’s new omni-series inverter offers increased flexibility and ease-of-integration.
about enova: enova systems (http://www.enovasystems.com), a leading supplier of efficient, environmentally friendly digital power components and systems products.
“unlike competitive models, our all-electric chassis is custom-built  from the ground up for the walk-in van market, integrating the proven ergonomic  advantages ofwiv bodies,” harbin added.
green technology legacy fccc and its parent company, daimler trucks north america llc (dtna),  maintain a legacy of providing innovative technologies that benefit customers  and the environment.
enova chief financial officer john micek said “the addition of daniel stewart and company assists our initiative to provide enova’s shareholders with desired analyst coverage, as well as maintain a strong presence with ouraim shareholders.”
may 17, 2010 torrance, ca may 17, 2010 â enova systems, inc. (nyse amex :ena and aim: env and envs), a production company in an emerging industry and a leading developer of proprietary electric, hybrid and fuel cell digital power management systems has filed results of its first quarter of fiscal year 2010 on form 10-q. enova president and ceo mike staran commented, “we are encouraged by continued customer traction and support through government funding opportunities, both in the form of funded development and government subsidies.
- ideal application for vehicles with a regular driving route that involves  stop-and-go driving conditions.
january 26, 2012 torrance, ca january 26, 2012 â
the all-electric mt-45 chassis is expected to go into full production during the first quarter of 2011 and will undergo testing with major u.s. pickup and delivery fleets.
march 5, 2012 several hundred vehicles already deployed in north america, europe march 5, 2012â enova systems, inc. (nyse amex: ena and aim :env and envs), a leading developer of proprietary hybrid electric and all-electric drive systems and drive system components for the emerging green commercial vehicle market announced today it has received further orders to supply drive system components to smith electric vehicles corp (smith), a global leader in all-electric commercial vehicles.
based on the award-winning solo low-floor bus, of which over 4,000 are in service worldwide, the solo ev produces zero tailpipe emissions.
the result is a reliable, durable and user friendly work tool with a body that is 500 lbs lighter than the traditional walk in van and helps extend drive cycle range.
in order to be eligible for technology fast 500 recognition, companies must own proprietary intellectual property or technology that is sold to customers in products that contribute to a majority of the company’s operating revenues.
the support  staff at hickam air force base have relied on the ze to deliver outstanding  service and quiet performance every day.
over the past years, navistar’s plug-in hybrid school buses powered by enova’s ultra-efficient drive system, have demonstrated a significant improvement in fuel economy and reduction in emissions.
fccc first introduced its plug-in, all-electric wiv chassis, the only one domestically engineered and the first in the industry to be completely all electric in north america, earlier this year.
work truck show in indianapolis from march 8-10 read more improvements, growth and execution at the 2010 shareholder meeting read more enova reports ytd revenue growth for q3 2010; secured order book of $6m; discusses positive market developments read more enova announces sev incremental 100 system order read more next generation vehicle for fccc all-electric walk-in van introduced at 2010 hybrid truck users forum read more fccc unveils newbody mt-ev read more enova reports revenue growth for second quarter 2010 read more smith electric vehicle orders enova systems read more see photos of president obama visit to sev read more sign up for our email updates keeping our customers at the forefront of green technology includes keeping them informed of the latest developments from enova and our partners.
smith electric vehicles’ newton, and all-electric medium and heavy duty truck, presents an additional opportunity to penetrate the gsa fleet market.
staran continued, “our proactive government strategy has ensured that our products qualify for international, federal, and state subsidies.
known for innovation, efficiency, quality, and best-in-class customer service and support, remy international’s products are integrated by leading industrial, specialty, automotive and heavy-dutyoems and aftermarket providers worldwide.
highlights of the june 30, 2010 quarter: enova president and ceo mike staran commented, “we continue to be encouraged by recurring revenue from our key customers navistar, first auto works, smith electric vehicles, and freightliner, as well as political support from the u.s. government on alternative fuel technologies.”
in addition to building a highly efficient delivery van with a distinctive new look, we have designed a vehicle that makes a powerful environmental statement.
combined with enova’s new omni inverter, thelgcpi packs will provide enova’s customers with the most advanced and robust medium duty truck and bus hybrid systems available.
please check out photos from the event here for more information, visit ntea truck show december 13, 2010 torrance, ca december 13, 2010 â enova systems, inc. (nyse amex: ena and aim: env and envs), a production company in an emerging industry and a leading developer of proprietary electric, hybrid and fuel cell digital power management systems, held its annual meeting at its offices in torrance, ca on tuesday, december 7th.
the company develops, designs and produces non-invasive drive systems and related components for electric, hybrid-electric, and fuel cell powered vehicles in both the ‘new’ and ‘retrofit’ vehicle sales market.
enova will be joining a panel of industry experts on wednesday, january 27, as  they address the advantages and recent breakthroughs in deploying zero-emission  drive system technology in commercial trucks.
the los angeles air force base has been targeted to be the first federal facility to replace 100% of its general purpose fleet with electric vehicles.
us air force and the warner robins air logistics center vehicle directorate are evaluating enova as a supplier of hybrid and electric drive systems.
us air force and the warner robins air logistics center vehicle directorate hosted the 2011 vehicle transportation acquisition council (vtac) conference at robinsafb, georgia from april 6 â 7, 2011.
the washington, dc location for this year’s edta conference reflects  the current administration’s push to deploy more green fleets in the  months and years ahead.
at this year’s conference, sector experts will lead a range of breakout sessions to explore key industry themes, drivers and constraints, as well as forward-looking trends.
“enova is honored to have been selected by gsa as the agency’s  exclusive supplier of all-electric step vans,” says enova president andceo  michael staran.
the summit will provide extensive opportunity for analysts and investors to meet with enova on a “one on one” basis.
street, torrance, ca 90501
the company’s core competencies are focused on the development  and commercialization of power management and conversion systems for mobile  applications.
technology highlights: omni inverter.
the support staff at hickam air force base have relied on the ze to deliver outstanding service and quiet performance every day.
read more enova invited to participate at freightliner sponsored event - green for freeâ¢ vehicle to be on display at multiple events read more enova systems announces completion of financing and results from annual shareholder meeting read more freightliner custom corporation and enova systems inc.
hosted at america’s center in st. louis, mo on march 9 – 12, 2010, this trade event will prominently feature enova’s all-electric drive train technology for commercial vehicles at a number of venues.
remy motors feature the company’s patented high voltage hairpin (hvh) winding technology, which is claimed to increase torque and power density for greater speed and range in electric vehicles.
enova systems, inc. will present at 9amest on track two, union square park, with an accompanying live webcast presentation.
“there are a lot of other very well-capitalized companies out there,” said john boesel, chief executive of calstart, a pasadena non-profit that promotes the growth of electric vehicles and other clean technologies for transportation.
attendees will learn more about the green for freeâ¢ initiative and enova’s next-generation omni drive system.
november 15, 2010 torrance, ca november 15, 2010 â