the 3008 hybrid4 will be produced in france  (in sochaux and mulhouse) and marketed in the spring of 2011 in europe.
these new sensations find expression in a number of ways: -silent operation, with the possibility of driving in electric only mode, -peace of mind offered by the safety inherent in four wheel drive, -high performance combiend with high levels of driveability, -unique freedom and simplicity of use with the possibility of choosing four  operating modes: zev, 4wd, sport, auto.
safety four wheel drive head-up display head-up display projects essential driver information onto a folding screen positioned within the driver's field of vision: speed, cruise control or speed limiter settings.
at the rear, the rear spoiler, two-tone with a high gloss black section,  helps to differentiate the 3008 hybrid4 from other models in the range, as do  the chrome badges which decorate the sides and rear of the car.
le passage du moteur thermique au moteur  électrique se fait automatiquement, grâce au stop & start, un  alternodémarreur qui va mettre en veille et redémarrer le moteur  thermique chaque fois que les conditions le nécessiteront - les deux  moteurs peuvent, également, s’additionner dans certaines  conditions de roulage (effet « boost » lors de fortes  accélérations, en doublant un véhicule par  exemple…).
drivers have all the information they need without taking their eyes off the road for even safer driving.
the name hybrid4 designates the hybridization of a diesel engine (2.0 litre hdi fap 120 kw / 163 bhp) with an electric motor offering a maximum power output of 27 kw (37 bhp).
the 3008 hybrid4 will be produced in france (in sochaux and mulhouse) and marketed in the spring of 2011 in europe.
simplicity of use a selection knob on the centre console enables the driver to choose between  four different operating modes: -"auto" mode: the electronics automatically control the entire  system, -"zev" mode provides access to an extensive all-electric mode, -"4wd" mode (four-wheel drive mode)
high performance design
by launching the world’s first full diesel  hybrid vehicle, the 3008 hybrid4, peugeot will create a new type of vehicle in  terms of freedom of use and driving enjoyment.
with the 3008 hybrid4 crossover, the environmentally-friendly combination of diesel and electric power also paves the way for: - 4 wheel drive - a maximum power of 200 bhp, - zev mode (zero emission vehicle) - 3.8 litres/100 km, with 99 g/km of co2
peugeot’s choice  of the diesel hybrid demonstrates that it is possible to combine uncompromising  environmental demands with driving sensations until now not available in a  hybrid vehicle.
engines functionning ces deux moteurs peuvent fonctionner de  façon alternée ou simultanée : - le moteur  thermique fonctionne de façon optimale sur les trajets routiers et  autoroutiers ou extra-urbains - le moteur électrique prend le relais  du thermique dans ses phases de plus faible rendement, en particulier lors des  démarrages, ou lors des roulages à basse vitesse ou encore des  décélérations (récupération  d’énergie).
the gear lever with its modern and elegant design is  emblematic of hybrid4 technology.
silent operation high performance design
from the boot, a rear seat folding system, controlled by  switches mounted on the load area side trims, allows the seats in the second  row to be folded automatically, as if by magic.
the  brake automatically engages when the engine is switched off and releases again  when the driver accelerates airbags in the event of an impact, 6 smart safety airbags can be deployed to  protect the occupants of 3008 hybrid4.
the 3008 hybrid4  thus offers a new and highly technological approach to motoring, combining  renewed driving enjoyment with a very low level of co2 emissions the hybrid4 strategy hybrid4 technology is based on the combined use  of the best technologies developed by peugeot’s engineers: diesel engine,  electric motor, second-generation stop & start and an  electronically-controlled sequential manual gearbox.
its benefits reside in its ability to fuse together different  genres: - through its external architecture, with a body  which carries the genes of the suv, mpv and saloon, - through its specific  stylistic codes in relation to the 3008 range overall, combining power and  protection, strength and elegance, leisure and status, - through its  surprising and technological interior, combining the ambience of an exclusive  hi-tech coupé with practical and efficient modularity, - through its  dynamic specification since thanks to peugeot’s expertise and the  technologies employed, this "tall single compartment" vehicle offers  a level of driveability that is the envy of many a saloon.
with  the   3008 hybrid4 crossover, the environmentally-friendly combination of diesel and  electric power also paves the way for: - 4 wheel drive - a maximum  power of 200 bhp, - zev mode (zero emission vehicle) - 3.8 litres/100  km, with 99 g/km of co2
the name hybrid4 designates the hybridization of a diesel engine (2.0 litre  hdi fap 120 kw / 163 bhp) with an electric motor offering a maximum power  output of 27 kw (37 bhp).
7 " colour display a 7" 16/9 colour screen or a  multi-function display, according to the car's specification, informs the  driver in real time of the operating status of the hybrid power train.
the brake automatically engages when the engine is switched off and releases again when the driver accelerates airbags
peugeot’s choice of the diesel hybrid demonstrates that it is possible to combine uncompromising environmental demands with driving sensations until now not available in a hybrid vehicle.
combined with a raised and dominating driving position it has everything in place to reward its drivers and offer a range of new driving sensations not previously found in a hybrid vehicle.
dominican republic algeria egypt ecuador estonia spain finland france gabon united kingdom georgia guinea guadeloupe equatorial guinea greece guatemala hong kong honduras croatia hungary indonesia irland israel iceland italy japon kenya korea, republic of kuwait kazakhstan latvia libanon sri lanka lithuania luxembourg morocco moldova, republic of montenegro madagascar macedonia mali malta martinique mauritania malaysia mexico nigeria new caledonia nigeria
by launching the world’s first full diesel hybrid vehicle, the 3008 hybrid4, peugeot will create a new type of vehicle in terms of freedom of use and driving enjoyment.
-2 curtain airbags limit the risks while joining and working alongside the side airbags.
the 3008 hybrid4 is designed  to appeal to demanding, technophile customers in search of a rewarding and  original car.
simplicity of use a selection knob on the centre console enables the driver to choose between four different operating modes: -"auto" mode: the electronics automatically control the entire system, -"zev" mode provides access to an extensive all-electric mode, -"4wd" mode (four-wheel drive mode)
instrument panel the instrument panel incorporates the air conditioning control console, as well as the audio or telematic systems console, i.e. the toggle switches.
chad thailand tunisia turkey trinidad and tobago taiwan ukraine uruguay venezuela south africa mauritius angola togo kosovo jordan select your vehicle select your vehicle - terms and conditions - international corporate sales - psa group - investors - diplomates - museum - open europe - youtube - webtv
- all product news - rss feed - 3008 - 908 hdi fap - blue lion - 308 cc - second life - 308 rc z - design - concept car - 308 - environment - sport - 308 sw - roland-garros - 207 cc - partner tepee - 4007 - expert tepee - style - le mans - 207 select your country select your country albania argentina australia austria azerbaidjan bosnia and herzegowina belgium nl belgium burkina faso bulgaria benin bermudas brazil belarus central african republic congo switzerland ivory coast chile cameroon china colombia r.d congo costa rica cuba cyprus czech republic germany denmark
the gear lever with its modern and elegant design is emblematic of hybrid4 technology.
-2 curtain airbags limit the risks while joining and working alongside the  side airbags.
headlamps at the front , the headlamps display a renewed expressiveness, with the integration of a bar of leds providing a daytime lighting function and accentuating the car's visual appeal comfort an expansive fascia panel, controls within easy hand's reach and an ergonomic centre console clearly separate the territory of the "pilot".
from the boot, a rear seat folding system, controlled by switches mounted on the load area side trims, allows the seats in the second row to be folded automatically, as if by magic.
headlamps at the front , the headlamps display a renewed expressiveness, with the  integration of a bar of leds providing a daytime lighting function and  accentuating the car's visual appeal comfort an expansive fascia panel, controls within easy hand's reach and an  ergonomic centre console clearly separate the territory of the  "pilot".
hr1 - concept peugeot sxc - concept peugeot hx1 - 208 gti concept - 208 xy concept - innovation| - engines - hdi engines - petrol engines - hybrid diesel engine - electric engine - safety - prevent - avoid - protect - help in emergencies - sport| - motorsport - tennis and golf - history| - 200 years - the lion's story - museums - a century of competitions - a century of expertise - cycles - more than a century of models - environment| - homepage > - products > - cars > 3008hybrid4 first diesel hybrid
hobby the "hobby" type lower tailgate opens to reveal a  boot with a flat door equipped with longitudinal securing rings that inspire  quality and strength.
its benefits reside in its ability to fuse together different genres: - through its external architecture, with a body which carries the genes of the suv, mpv and saloon, - through its specific stylistic codes in relation to the 3008 range overall, combining power and protection, strength and elegance, leisure and status, - through its surprising and technological interior, combining the ambience of an exclusive hi-tech coupé with practical and efficient modularity, - through its dynamic specification since thanks to peugeot’s expertise and the technologies employed, this "tall single compartment" vehicle offers a level of driveability that is the envy of many a saloon.
hybrid4 designation the name hybrid4 designates the hybridization of a diesel engine (2.0 litre hdi fap 120 kw / 163 bhp) with an electric motor offering a maximum power output of 27 kw (37 bhp).
these new sensations find expression in a number of ways: -silent operation, with the possibility of driving in electric only mode, -peace of mind offered by the safety inherent in four wheel drive, -high performance combiend with high levels of driveability, -unique freedom and simplicity of use with the possibility of choosing four operating modes: zev, 4wd, sport, auto.
it must also provide new driving sensations, improved  driveability and improved driving enjoyment.
the 3008 hybrid4 is designed to appeal to demanding, technophile customers in search of a rewarding and original car.
electric parking brake 3008 hybrid4 is fitted with an electric parking brake as standaard.
combined with a raised and dominating driving position it  has everything in place to reward its drivers and offer a range of new driving  sensations not previously found in a hybrid vehicle.
hobby the "hobby" type lower tailgate opens to reveal a boot with a flat door equipped with longitudinal securing rings that inspire quality and strength.
instrument panel the instrument panel incorporates the air  conditioning control console, as well as the audio or telematic systems  console, i.e. the toggle switches.
safety four wheel drive head-up display head-up display projects essential driver information onto a folding screen  positioned within the driver's field of vision: speed, cruise control or speed  limiter settings.
the new peugeot 3008 hybrid4 stands out due to its cutting-edge technology,  allowing a seamless combination of responsible driving and driving enjoyment,  but also by its specific styling.
driving pleasure for peugeot, the legitimacy of this technology goes well beyond its eco-efficiency.
3008hybrid4 first diesel hybrid
the 3008 hybrid4 thus offers a new and highly technological approach to motoring, combining renewed driving enjoyment with a very low level of co2 emissions the hybrid4 strategy hybrid4 technology is based on the combined use of the best technologies developed by peugeot’s engineers: diesel engine, electric motor, second-generation stop & start and an electronically-controlled sequential manual gearbox.
7 " colour display a 7" 16/9 colour screen or a multi-function display, according to the car's specification, informs the driver in real time of the operating status of the hybrid power train.
nicaragua netherlands norway new zealand peru french polynesia poland portugal paraguay reunion romania serbia russian federation sweden singapore slovenia slovakia (slovak republic) sierra leone senegal el salvador
-2 side airbags are located in the back of the seat and in the side trim.
it must also provide new driving sensations, improved driveability and improved driving enjoyment.
- skip to main navigation - skip to main content - news| - all news - corporate - products and innovations - events - search - newsletter - geneva motor show - products| - cars - ion - 107 - 206+ - 207 - 207 cc - 207 sw - 207 sedan - 208 - 308 - 308 cc - 308 sw - 308 gti - 3008 - 3008 hybrid4 - rcz - 407 coupe - 4007 - 408 - 4008 - 508 - 508 rxh - 508-hybrid4 - 5008 - 807 - hoggar - bipper tepee - partner origin - partner tepee - expert tepee - vans - bipper - partner origin - partner - expert - boxer - cycles - motorcycles - design| - concept cars - concept peugeot sr1 - concept peugeot bb1 - concept peugeot ex1 - concept peugeot
a technological and rewarding crossover
-2 front airbags, protext the front passenger.
the new peugeot 3008 hybrid4 stands out due to its cutting-edge technology, allowing a seamless combination of responsible driving and driving enjoyment, but also by its specific styling.
at the rear, the rear spoiler, two-tone with a high gloss black section, helps to differentiate the 3008 hybrid4 from other models in the range, as do the chrome badges which decorate the sides and rear of the car.
hybrid4 designation the name hybrid4 designates the hybridization of  a diesel engine (2.0 litre hdi fap 120 kw / 163 bhp) with an electric motor  offering a maximum power output of 27 kw (37 bhp).
engines functionning ces deux moteurs peuvent fonctionner de façon alternée ou simultanée : - le moteur thermique fonctionne de façon optimale sur les trajets routiers et autoroutiers ou extra-urbains - le moteur électrique prend le relais du thermique dans ses phases de plus faible rendement, en particulier lors des démarrages, ou lors des roulages à basse vitesse ou encore des décélérations (récupération d’énergie).
driving pleasure for peugeot, the legitimacy of this technology goes well beyond its  eco-efficiency.
in the event of an impact, 6 smart safety airbags can be deployed to protect the occupants of 3008 hybrid4.
drivers have all the information they need without taking  their eyes off the road for even safer driving.
in the event of an impact, 6 smart safety airbags can be deployed to  protect the occupants of 3008 hybrid4.
le passage du moteur thermique au moteur électrique se fait automatiquement, grâce au stop & start, un alternodémarreur qui va mettre en veille et redémarrer le moteur thermique chaque fois que les conditions le nécessiteront - les deux moteurs peuvent, également, s’additionner dans certaines conditions de roulage (effet « boost » lors de fortes accélérations, en doublant un véhicule par exemple…).