when you enter this code, it ensures that your order is going to a real person.
vincentric, pioneers in lifecycle cost analyses for fleets, compared hybrid  models to their gas-powered counterparts in the january/february 2007 issue of business fleet.
the diesel model wins the  lifecycle cost race easily.
in addition, there are increased field complaints about “less-than-ergonomic” upfit decisions.
sign up for new membership now!
toyota/lexus and honda have used up their hybrid tax credits (under  present rules) while domestic and european hybrid manufacturers have not.
[ request more info about this product/service/company ] request more info fill out the form below to request more info regarding the company/product/service featured in the story.
mercedes is the only manufacturer that makes a similar gas-, hybrid- and  diesel-powered model, the ml350, ml450h and ml350cdi.
view the latest enews driving force article archive search enter keywords to search for: popular tags: 2012-my alternative fuels biodiesel bmw cargo vans closed-end leases diesel distracted driving dodge driver behavior driver safety electric vehicle emissions environmentally friendly fleet car of the year fleet leasing fleet management fleet truck of the year ford f-150 ford fusion hybrid
many diesels outperform gas
civic cng does not beat the gas- or hybrid-powered civic models  in overall cost.
- vincentric included ¾-ton pickup models and their diesel counterparts.
july 2010, business fleet - feature gas, hybrid and diesel: a lifecycle cost analysis by chris brown sharing tools        |  print subscribe mercedes-benz is the only manufacturer to produce a similar gas-, hybrid-  and diesel-powered model, the ml350, ml450h and ml350cdi.
besides health issues, poor ergonomics is also a key contributor to preventable accidents.
hybrids - quicker roi - in the original analysis, only one out of 11 hybrid models paid back its hybrid premium compared to its gas counterpart after three or five years.
civic cng does not beat the gas- or hybrid-powered civic models in overall cost.
by chris brown sharing tools | print subscribe mercedes-benz is the only manufacturer to produce a similar gas-, hybrid- and diesel-powered model, the ml350, ml450h and ml350cdi.
access our career coaching services job seekers post your resume & manage your job search.
there are more hybrid model offerings today  and many have fleet incentives, while some hybrid models' tax credits have  expired.
if you don't see an image, make sure your browser is set to display images and try again.
this roi is in spite of the fact that diesel pump prices ran 23 cents  more per gallon than regular unleaded ($3.01 to $2.78) as of this analysis.
fuel prices have fluctuated wildly on an upward trajectory, affecting payback  lengths for alt-powered vehicles.
- four hybrid luxury models (cadillac escalade hybrid, lexus hs 250h, lexus rx 450h and mercedes s400hv) overcome their premiums in only three years.
over the weekend, visa removed global payments from its pci compliance list.
if you're not sure what the code is, make your best guess.
recent higher fuel prices and moderating acquisition costs have improved the economics of hybrids in fleets.
honda civic is a close  second.
in general, high fuel costs combined with stellar fuel economy, federal  diesel tax incentives, and a smaller spread between gas and diesel model  acquisition costs translate into a quicker return on investment than the models  in the gas to hybrid analysis.
certainly, a straight cost analysis does not consider the torque and engine longevity advantages of diesel power in pickup applications.
- vincentric included honda civic cng (compressed natural gas) in this analysis.
honda insight and toyota prius, the two proprietary hybrid models, have  the lowest costs per mile of any of the hybrid models.
our other fleet sites visit our fleet sites rss facebook twitter jobs - automotive fleet - business fleet - fleet financials - government fleet - green fleet magazine - work truck - fleet-central saturday, april 14, 2012 subscribe to business fleet today!
- mercedes is the only manufacturer that makes a similar gas-, hybrid- and diesel-powered model, the ml350, ml450h and ml350cdi.
ford previews fleet vehicles for 2012 and beyond by chris brown ford’s west coast headquarters welcomed fleet customers to show off the all-new 2013 ford fusion, discuss hybrid, electric and ecoboost engine technologies, update plans for the lincoln brand and talk about ford’s residual value strategy.
why is the car rental show growing?
we asked vincentric to revisit its cost scenario with diesel vehicles in the mix.
search for fleet jobs.
to view the complete lifecycle cost analysis charts, click here.
* name: company: * e-mail: phone: preferred contact method: email phone i would like info on the following: enter the verification code as it is shown below without spaces.
by mike antich a one-size-fits-all approach to truck specifications is an ergonomic minefield, which could have litigious consequences.
volkswagen jetta diesel has the lowest lifecycle costs of all diesels,  though it takes five years to return its premium.
on the diesel front, new, stringent emissions standards and stellar fuel economy have helped diesel passenger car models achieve "green" status.
close cancel tags: diesel vehicles, hybrid electric vehicles, lifecycle costs, vincentric comment on this story please log in to write comment.
proactively resolving ergonomic issues can have a significant impact in reducing workers’ comp costs, improving productivity, and decreasing fatigue-induced driver errors.
vincentric included ¾-ton pickup models and their diesel  counterparts.
toyota toyota camry hybrid vincentric wright express zoomsafer news channels industry news executive fleet press release leasing safety-accident-management remarketing fuel-management mobility green-fleet gps-telematics maintenance vehicle-research article news popular stories - which hybrids have the lowest cost of ownership?
- toyota/lexus and honda have used up their hybrid tax credits (under present rules) while domestic and european hybrid manufacturers have not.
recent  higher fuel prices and moderating acquisition costs have improved the economics  of hybrids in fleets.
the diesel model wins the lifecycle cost race easily.
but, as many fleets have shown, where there is a will, there is a way to meet fleet sustainability goals, despite fiscal austerity.
- in the present analysis, out of 18 hybrid and gas pairs selected, seven pay back their hybrid premiums by three years, eight within five years.
by chris brown store $5.00 business fleet - may/june 2011
- diesel tax incentives, where available, range from $900 to $1,800.
fleet job finder save time and money.
how  would diesels fare versus gas and hybrid power?
diesel pickups return their premiums in longer time frames than any other hybrid or diesel model in this analysis.
what does that mean to you?
- honda insight and toyota prius, the two proprietary hybrid models, have the lowest costs per mile of any of the hybrid models.
on the diesel front, new, stringent emissions standards and stellar fuel  economy have helped diesel passenger car models achieve "green"  status.
- ford fusion, honda civic and toyota camry hybrid models overcome their premiums within three years.
however, toyota corolla has the lowest cost per mile overall in this study.
poor truck ergonomics 'cramp' fleet productivity
hybrids - quicker roi
other articles - showroom - bmw 3-series: the look is under the hood - showroom - honda civic: still tough to beat - showroom - volkswagen passat: a mid-size domestic import - where's my spare tire?
diesel pickups return their premiums in longer time frames than  any other hybrid or diesel model in this analysis.
- this roi is in spite of the fact that diesel pump prices ran 23 cents more per gallon than regular unleaded ($3.01 to $2.78) as of this analysis.
- home - leasing - safety & accident - remarketing - fuel management - green fleet - gps/telematics - software - maintenance - vehicle research - quick links: - news - magazine - blog - events - jobs - statistics - fleet blogs - advertise - current issue - past issues - current articles sign-up | login - industry news - safety - remarketing - fuel - mobility - green fleet - telematics - maintenance - vehicle research site map | site search : business fleet - current articles july 2010, business fleet - feature gas, hybrid and diesel: a lifecycle cost analysis
by mike antich total fleet cost is proportional to fleet size
nonetheless, toyota, lexus and honda have the lowest, or are tied for the lowest, in lifecycle costs in each segment.
image code verification automated programs can't "read" the code you see in the box: only humans can.
subscribe to one or all of them...they're free.subscribe!
vincentric, pioneers in lifecycle cost analyses for fleets, compared hybrid models to their gas-powered counterparts in the january/february 2007 issue of business fleet.
honda civic is a close second.
- how fleets are reacting to the cell phone ban e-newsletter authoritative & targeted!
featured jobs blog market trends green fleet initiatives gain momentum despite cost constraints by mike antich most fleets want to be environmentally friendly, but are often hamstrung by fiscal constraints when procuring greener vehicles.
the diesel model has  the best lifecycle cost of the group.
fuel prices have fluctuated wildly on an upward trajectory, affecting payback lengths for alt-powered vehicles.
vincentric included honda civic cng (compressed natural gas) in this  analysis.
we asked vincentric to revisit its cost scenario with diesel vehicles in  the mix.
since most companies replace approximately one third of their fleet vehicles each year, they can tailor selectors to favor more fuel-efficient vehicles, so long as they are able to fulfill the fleet application.
ford fusion, honda civic and toyota camry hybrid models overcome their  premiums within three years.
five of the six luxury diesel models analyzed return their diesel  premiums well within three years.
ford transit connect electric fuel fuel cards fuel economy fuel management general motors corp.
much has changed in the world of alternative-powered vehicles since then.
four hybrid luxury models (cadillac escalade hybrid, lexus hs 250h, lexus  rx 450h and mercedes s400hv) overcome their premiums in only three years.
the diesel model has the best lifecycle cost of the group.
certainly, a straight cost  analysis does not consider the torque and engine longevity advantages of diesel  power in pickup applications.
many diesels outperform gas - in general, high fuel costs combined with stellar fuel economy, federal diesel tax incentives, and a smaller spread between gas and diesel model acquisition costs translate into a quicker return on investment than the models in the gas to hybrid analysis.
- how fleets are reacting to the cell phone ban - 6 keys to an effective cell phone policy - telematics drives big savings on commercial auto insurance - where's my spare tire?
employers post jobs & search top quality resumes.
will fuel overtake depreciation to become the no.1 fleet expense?
nonetheless, toyota, lexus and honda have the lowest, or are tied for the  lowest, in lifecycle costs in each segment.
how would diesels fare versus gas and hybrid power?
(not case-sensitive) enter code: what's this?
would hybrids be able to overcome their premiums more quickly?
- which hybrids have the lowest cost of ownership?
global electric motorcars gps green hybrid hybrid electric vehicles leasing lifecycle costs maintenance nafa navigation system neighborhood electric vehicles nevs propane remarketing resale value residual values route management sprinter telematics
- volkswagen jetta diesel has the lowest lifecycle costs of all diesels, though it takes five years to return its premium.
there are more hybrid model offerings today and many have fleet incentives, while some hybrid models' tax credits have expired.
if you're incorrect, you'll get another chance to enter a different code on the next screen.
in this issue: routing revolution here are some of the highlights: mobile mavericks propane-powered and profitable and much more… sign up for the trusted authority in the automotive industry - quick links: - home - | - news - | - channels - | - magazine - | - blog - | - events - | - jobs - | - forums - | - statistics - | - store - | - advertise - | - fleet management - | - rss - channels: - leasing - | - safety & accident - | - remarketing - | - fuel management - | - mobility - | - green fleet - | - gps / telematics - | - maintenance - | - vehicle research - services: - membership - | - subscribe - | - contact us - | - privacy policy - | - terms of use - | - media kit - | - site map - | - careers - other fleet sites: - automotive fleet - business fleet - fleet financials - government fleet - green fleet magazine - work truck - fleet-central copyright © 2012 business fleet.
in the original analysis, only one out of 11 hybrid models paid back its  hybrid premium compared to its gas counterpart after three or five years.
in the present analysis, out of 18 hybrid and gas pairs selected, seven  pay back their hybrid premiums by three years, eight within five years.
by chris brown relayrides founder in the hot seat
on friday, global payments announced a breach of its processing system and that as many as 1.5 million card numbers may have been stolen.
however, toyota corolla  has the lowest cost per mile overall in this study.
we offer e-newsletters that deliver targeted news and information for the entire fleet industry.
by mike antich auto focus global payments data breach: what we know
- five of the six luxury diesel models analyzed return their diesel premiums well within three years.
diesel tax incentives, where available, range from $900 to $1,800.