without the battery  banks, the hornblower hybrid would have nowhere to store power!
the 2010 prius can  reach up to 51 mpg compared to a typical compact vehicle that can get 30-40  mpg.
annual fuel savings of the hornblower hybrid will be upwards of 29,000 gallons!
the event was a great success, enjoyed by green enthusiasts, families,  students and cruisers who were just looking to enjoy a sunny day on the  beautiful san francisco bay.
on top of saving energy, another long term goal was to ignite a trend towards hybrid retrofits in the water transportation industry.
for more information on vetrazzo please visit www.vetrazzo.com posted at 09:07 am | permalink | comments (1) | trackback (0) 06/02/2009 save energy and the planet: reduce, reuse and recycle!
alcatraz cruises has announced full time service  beginning this month on the hornblower hybrid.
in the meantime, hybrid retrofits have become a budding trend in the land transportation industry, with fed ex increasing its north american hybrid truck fleet by 50 percent after last week's announcement of 92 additional retrofitted delivery trucks.
one of the boat's most popular education tools, however, is an exercise bike that is hooked up to a miniature, functioning representation of the same system that directs solar and wind turbine power to the battery pack.
tickets can be purchased at www.alcatrazcruises.com.
part of respect our planet’s mission is to educate our guests and  increase their environmental awareness.
representatives from  save the bay were present to educate all earth day cruisers about the  importance of habitat restoration for a healthy bay.
the national park service contract stipulated that our fleet include ferries that were built or refitted to a higher level of environmental standards.
pacific gas & electric co. is also looking toward a future in hybrid  retrofits.
reduce, reuse, recycle - some may call these the "3  r's" but our team at hornblower refers to these three words as important
how many bikes would it take to power the hornblower hybrid?
according to our project engineer, we would need 1,500 bikes onboard to power the hornblower hybrid at 10 knots.
the technologies used on the hornblower hybrid are not limited to just this vessel or the current route it operates to alcatraz and angel island in san francisco.
the vessel includes  other environmentally friendly components such as: - carpet: contains everset fibers, made from post  consumer recycled materials and is recyclable.
the hornblower hybrid is “green” in many other ways beyond its clean energy capabilities and recycled glass countertops.
daily service began april 4th and continues on weekends in may, including memorial day and the weekend of june 6th and 7th.
tickets were sold for three special earth day cruises with 100% of the  proceeds donated to save the bay, an organization dedicated to protecting,  restoring and celebrating the san francisco bay.
the  alcatraz/angel island tour departs pier 33 at 9:30am and last for approximately  5 ½ hours.
the hybrid boat is equipped with a customized drive system that allows the  captain to monitor the energy needs of the boat and select the most efficient  power sources.
for example, when the boat is idling at the dock, the engines are shut off and the electric motors run simply off the energy stored in the battery banks.
that's a lot of bikes!
the hornblower hybrid can do up to 7 knots on battery power.
the 2010 prius can reach up to 51 mpg compared to a typical compact vehicle that can get 30-40 mpg.
for ticketing information please visit www.alcatrazcruises.com/ a special "guardians of the gate" bay cruise from saturday, june  13th through monday, august 31st, will be offered to all visitors on days when  tickets to alcatraz island are sold out.
we can offer our services to other vessel operators who would like a hybrid vessel(s) as well.
for example, when the  boat is idling at the dock, the engines are shut off and the electric motors  run simply off the energy stored in the battery banks.
like hornblower and companies, vetrazzo cultivates a workplace that  demonstrates a respect for people and the planet and we are proud to partner  with local green businesses that share our mission for a cleaner and greener  environment.
passengers can peddle the bike and actually generate power for the hornblower hybrid's batteries.
there is approximately 2,300 pounds of batteries in each of  the two boat hulls, totaling 4,600 pounds of batteries!
the hybrid boat is equipped with a customized drive system that allows the captain to monitor the energy needs of the boat and select the most efficient power sources.
we are not making any claims that the  hornblower hybrid technology is better than toyota, just different, in that one  technology lets you choose between the two modes and the other makes the choice  or you.
so if your camera runs out of batteries after an all day photo shoot on alcatraz island, please feel free to drop them off with any alcatraz cruises staff member and we will dispose of them properly.
we are excited about the new, full time schedule for the hornblower hybrid.
that being said, make sure to come in your best shape, get ready  to peddle and we will see you onboard!
pacific gas & electric co. is also looking toward a future in hybrid retrofits.
the retrofit, repower and refurbishment took several months to complete  and almost 90 percent of the former dive boat was refitted.
earth day is celebrated every year on april 22nd and is designed to inspire  awareness and appreciation for the earth's environment.
the repurposed vehicles  are 44 percent more fuel efficient than standard fedex delivery trucks and  produce 96 percent fewer particulates and 75 percent fewer smog-causing  emissions.
surprisingly, this is how countertops are made in the “green” world.
guidelines to build a hybrid ferry.
not only did our company accept the challenge, but our team of engineers went above and beyond.
vetrazzo, inc., a certified bay area green business, created and designed all countertops onboard the vessel made from approximately 85% post-consumer recycled glass.
we are anticipating a fuel savings of nearly 29,000 gallons  of diesel over the course of a year... not too shabby!
appropriately,  the hornblower hybrid is designed to inspire environmental awareness as well  and to teach our guests about the importance of environmental stewardship.
similarities like the prius, that can be propelled by gasoline (petrol) and/or electric power, the hornblower hybrid is a diesel-electric vessel that also switches between these two modes of power.
similarities like the prius, that can be propelled by gasoline (petrol) and/or electric  power, the hornblower hybrid is a diesel-electric vessel that also switches  between these two modes of power.
for those of you who are interested in hybrid technology, the 64-foot  hybrid is the largest of any hybrid ferryboat in the world, making it a  prototype that others in the ferry transportation industry can follow.
charter and other  information are available atwww.alcatrazcruises.com/hybrid.
posted at 01:28 pm | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0) the hornblower hybrid has often been referred to as "a prius on steroids" and when asked to explain the functions of our hybrid vessel, our team often refers to the capabilities of the toyota prius as an easy explanation.
the hybrid boat uses approximately six gallons of diesel fuel per hour, compared to 30 gallons per hour used by a conventional ferryboat.
for more information on vetrazzo please visit www.vetrazzo.com
that being said, make sure to come in your best shape, get ready to peddle and we will see you onboard!
alcatraz  cruises, an affiliate of hornblower cruises and events, is pleased to introduce  to its fleet the hornblower hybrid, a wind, solar and diesel powered hybrid  boat.
posted at 09:50 am | permalink | comments (1) | trackback (0)
earth day is celebrated every year on april 22nd and is designed to inspire awareness and appreciation for the earth's environment.
posted at 03:35 pm | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0) « previous
the vessel includes other environmentally friendly components such as: - carpet: contains everset fibers, made from post consumer recycled materials and is recyclable.
the alcatraz/angel island tour departs pier 33 at 9:30am and last for approximately 5 ½ hours.
the hornblower hybrid uses two ten-foot-tall 1,500-watt wind turbines and a 1.5 kw solar array to power all house loads.
that is equivalent to taking 58 cars off the road permanently or planting 90 acres of trees.
the 400hp electric motors are  powered by a 320 kw generator and a 380 v battery pack that supplements the  clean tier 2 marine diesel engines.
on top of saving energy, another long term goal was  to ignite a trend towards hybrid retrofits in the water transportation industry.
* * you can join us on the hornblower hybrid by purchasing tickets for our island hop tour to alcatraz and angel island.
posted at 05:15 pm | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0)
during the construction of the vessel, the hornblower hybrid team saw the opportunity to make the new hybrid ferry an educational tool and seized it, adding many learning components throughout the boat.
any excess power is stored in the main propulsion  battery banks that allow for zero emissions mode.
another similarity is the display screens onboard the hornblower hybrid that show energy flow to/from the engines and battery bank as well as the battery charge level.
annual fuel savings of the hornblower  hybrid will be upwards of 29,000 gallons!
by reusing and recycling a used diving vessel, hornblower saved 735,000 kwh of electricity in the construction/retrofit of the vessel.
tickets can be purchased at  www.alcatrazcruises.com.
therefore alcatraz cruises extended the invitation to come onboard the hornblower hybrid for a special earth day cruise around the san francisco bay.
so if your camera runs out of batteries after an all day photo shoot on  alcatraz island, please feel free to drop them off with any alcatraz cruises  staff member and we will dispose of them properly.
daily service began april 4th and continues on weekends in may,  including memorial day and the weekend of june 6th and 7th.
designed with children in mind to learn how much energy it takes to generate power, the bike has become more popular with adults who are not shy about giving a few elbows to get their turn at peddling.
full time daily service begins saturday june 11th through september 7th and will continue for the remaining weekends in september.
the hornblower hybrid will be a multi-purpose vessel within the alcatraz cruises fleet and will be taking school groups on educational cruises around the bay.
passengers can peddle the bike and actually generate power for the  hornblower hybrid's batteries.
the 400hp electric motors are powered by a 320 kw generator and a 380 v battery pack that supplements the clean tier 2 marine diesel engines.
accessories such as dashboard lights and air conditioning on the toyota prius, are powered by the battery pack just like the hornblower hybrid that uses power stored in its battery banks to power navigation tools, lighting and other electronic needs.
posted at 04:19 pm | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0)
the hybrid  boat uses approximately six gallons of diesel fuel per hour, compared to 30  gallons per hour used by a conventional ferryboat.
in the meantime, hybrid retrofits have become a budding trend in the land  transportation industry, with fed ex increasing its north american hybrid truck  fleet by 50 percent after last week's announcement of 92 additional retrofitted  delivery trucks.
* * you can join us on the hornblower hybrid by purchasing tickets for our  island hop tour to alcatraz and angel island.
this environmentally progressive vessel showcases the potential power of alternative energy sources when they are combined with creative engineering solutions.
- lights: the boat is fully equipped with an led lighting system - interior signage: printed on plyboo (left), 100% renewable plywood  bamboo made from sustainable sources - all interior modifications meet the usgbc leed criteria for recycled  content
there is approximately 2,300 pounds of batteries in each of the two boat hulls, totaling 4,600 pounds of batteries!
posted at 08:44 am | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0) 04/21/2009 the hornblower hybrid begins service to alcatraz and angel island a boat ride across the san francisco bay to alcatraz and angel island just  got a lot greener.
it would take around 15,000 aa style batteries to equal  the battery banks on the hornblower hybrid.
we look forward to making our earth day  cruise onboard the hornblower hybrid an annual event, and look forward to  seeing you next year!
during the construction of the vessel, the hornblower hybrid  team saw the opportunity to make the new hybrid ferry an educational tool and  seized it, adding many learning components throughout the boat.
to give a quick review, power from the wind turbines and solar panels are  stored in the battery banks that power navigation tools, lighting and other  electronic needs.
it will also be available for private events.
the hornblower hybrid comes equipped with many educational tools onboard including a large display of diagrams and educational photos in the pilothouse.
like hornblower and companies, vetrazzo cultivates a workplace that demonstrates a respect for people and the planet and we are proud to partner with local green businesses that share our mission for a cleaner and greener environment.
the boat has a battery pack about 17 times as large as the one found in the prius.
instead of starting from scratch, hornblower acquired an aluminum commercial dive boat to convert into a hybrid ferry.
compared to a  typical ferry boat that burns 25 to 30 gallons of diesel per hour, the  hornblower hybrid uses between 5 to 7 gallons per hour.
another similarity is the display screens onboard the hornblower hybrid that show  energy flow to/from the engines and battery bank as well as the battery  charge level.
differences the main difference between the two hybrid vehicles is the hornblower  hybrid's customized drive system that lets the captain monitor the vessel's  energy needs and choose the most efficient power sources.
if we are moving toward a future of hybrid vehicle fleets, the logical next  step would be hybrid vessel fleets.
pg&e was one of 14 utility companies to asses a hybrid  diesel-electric truck in it's vehicle fleet, which could potentially cut fuel  consumption by 30 to 60 percent.
and although most of our visitors are excited about the wind and solar technology, we don't want our guests to forget about another important technology component: battery power!
fed ex claims to have the largest hybrid package delivery  fleet in the u.s. with a total of 264 hybrid trucks.
designed with children in mind to learn how much  energy it takes to generate power, the bike has become more popular with adults  who are not shy about giving a few elbows to get their turn at peddling.
our company was just the first to  hire an engineering team to design and integrate the systems, making it the  first successful implementation of a hybrid passenger ferry in the  united states.
for ticketing information please visit www.alcatrazcruises.com/ a special "guardians of the gate" bay cruise from saturday, june 13th through monday, august 31st, will be offered to all visitors on days when tickets to alcatraz island are sold out.
the repurposed vehicles are 44 percent more fuel efficient than standard fedex delivery trucks and produce 96 percent fewer particulates and 75 percent fewer smog-causing emissions.
the  hornblower hybrid comes equipped with many educational tools onboard including  a large display of diagrams and educational photos in the pilothouse.
vetrazzo, inc., a certified bay  area green business, created and designed all countertops onboard the vessel  made from approximately 85% post-consumer recycled glass.
we hope this makes our guests think more about the energy they use at home  and encourages them to make environmentally friendly decisions in their daily  lives.
appropriately, the hornblower hybrid is designed to inspire environmental awareness as well and to teach our guests about the importance of environmental stewardship.
the technologies used on the  hornblower hybrid are not limited to just this vessel or the current route it  operates to alcatraz and angel island in san francisco.
alcatraz cruises, an affiliate of hornblower cruises and events, is pleased to introduce to its fleet the hornblower hybrid, a wind, solar and diesel powered hybrid boat.
not only  did our company accept the challenge, but our team of engineers went above and  beyond.
to remind our devoted blog readers about the power of batteries, our team  of engineers have compiled some fun facts about the batteries on the hornblower  hybrid: •
so on earth day many green-minded people made  plans to show a little love, and to do our part, alcatraz cruises offered a way  for people to learn about living on this planet with a softer footprint.
the prius also has an energy monitor on its multi-function dashboard display.
it would take around 15,000 aa style batteries to equal the battery banks on the hornblower hybrid.
like the toyota prius, that led the way for more fuel-efficient cars, we  hope the hornblower hybrid will spark change in the maritime industry for more  fuel-efficient boats in the future.
so how do these two hybrid vehicles compare?
that is equivalent to taking more than 60 u.s. homes off the grid for one year, significantly reducing our environmental impact.
- lights: the boat is fully equipped with an led lighting system - interior signage: printed on plyboo (left), 100% renewable plywood bamboo made from sustainable sources - all interior modifications meet the usgbc leed criteria for recycled content
so on earth day many green-minded people made plans to show a little love, and to do our part, alcatraz cruises offered a way for people to learn about living on this planet with a softer footprint.
it takes approximately 5 hours to recharge the batteries.
to give a quick review, power from the wind turbines and solar panels are stored in the battery banks that power navigation tools, lighting and other electronic needs.
each battery bank holds 380 volts.
instead of idling at the dock or burning diesel to keep the lights on, the hybrid will switch between diesel mode and battery mode in order to save fuel and reduce emissions.
you host a party, your friends show up, you serve vodka martinis, you dance, you mingle, say good-bye, clean up the mess and recycle the empty bottles.
our mother earth: we take her for granted daily, even though she does just about everything for us.
signs are also posted throughout the vessel with information on the "green" components of the boat, including countertops made of recycled glass to show passengers firsthand how materials can be reused to reduce our impact on the planet.
differences the main difference between the two hybrid vehicles is the hornblower hybrid's customized drive system that lets the captain monitor the vessel's energy needs and choose the most efficient power sources.
we hope this makes our guests think more about the energy they use at home and encourages them to make environmentally friendly decisions in their daily lives.
in 2005, hornblower cruises & events was awarded a 10-year contract to provide transportation across the san francisco bay to alcatraz island.
it can be used on almost any vessel, even a fleet of vessels!
the hornblower hybrid, now complete and in full time service to alcatraz and angel island, not only reduces emissions during operation but also saved energy during vessel construction.
representatives from save the bay were present to educate all earth day cruisers about the importance of habitat restoration for a healthy bay.
the hornblower hybrid is a visual platform from which visitors can learn first-hand the capabilities of solar power, wind power and other hybrid technological advancements.
the hornblower hybrid is “green” in many other ways beyond its  clean energy capabilities and recycled glass countertops.
according to our project engineer, we would need 1,500 bikes  onboard to power the hornblower hybrid at 10 knots.
without the battery banks, the hornblower hybrid would have nowhere to store power!
posted at 10:23 am | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0)
therefore alcatraz cruises extended the invitation to come onboard the  hornblower hybrid for a special earth day cruise around the san francisco  bay.
the hornblower hybrid, now complete and in full time service to alcatraz  and angel island, not only reduces emissions during operation but also saved  energy during vessel construction.
as part of our dedication to respect our planet, all countertops on the hornblower hybrid are made from recycled glass – two thousand skyy vodka bottles to be more exact.
we can offer our services to other vessel operators who  would like a hybrid vessel(s) as well.
like the toyota prius, that led the way for more fuel-efficient cars, we hope the hornblower hybrid will spark change in the maritime industry for more fuel-efficient boats in the future.
so how much man power would it actually take to generate enough energy to power the boat?
the prius also has an energy monitor on its multi-function  dashboard display.
after refitting two existing vessels with new engines that reduce  emissions by 50% and comply to tier 2 standards, hornblower has taken the next  step by introducing a hybrid ferry to to its "green" fleet.
08/04/2009 the power of batteries the hornblower hybrid i s a technological advancement many years in the making,  harnessing energy from the sun and the wind, combined with diesel engines, to  propel the vessel.
posted at 10:17 am | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0) 07/14/2009 peddle power!
alcatraz cruises has announced full time service beginning this month on the hornblower hybrid.
a new hybrid vehicle is in town and this one has no wheels.
the hornblower hybrid will be a multi-purpose vessel within the alcatraz  cruises fleet and will be taking school groups on educational cruises around  the bay.
posted at 10:23 am | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0) 04/01/2009 introducing the hornblower hybrid a new hybrid vehicle is in town and this one has no wheels.
when comparing the hornblower hybrid and the toyota prius, the most  important comparison to make is their fuel efficiency.
(a knot is 1.15 mph).
posted at 01:28 pm | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0) 07/21/2009 hornblower hybrid vs. toyota prius the hornblower hybrid has often been referred to as "a prius  on steroids" and when asked to explain the functions of our hybrid  vessel, our team often refers to the capabilities of the toyota prius as an  easy explanation.
recently we wrote about the advantages of recycling and reusing a diving vessel for the hornblower hybrid and discussed the environmental benefits of retrofitting a used boat.
surprisingly, this is how countertops are made in the  “green” world.
combining these technologies we are able to greatly reduce our fuel  consumption and overall emissions.
for those of you who do not own a toyota prius, a hybrid vessel typically uses two or more distinct power sources and a combination of a diesel engine (in our case, tier 2 marine diesel engines) with one or more electric motors.
we look forward to making our earth day cruise onboard the hornblower hybrid an annual event, and look forward to seeing you next year!
posted at 10:17 am | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0)
when comparing the hornblower hybrid and the toyota prius, the most important comparison to make is their fuel efficiency.
posted at 04:19 pm | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0) 05/04/2009 a special earth day on the bay our mother earth: we take her for granted daily, even though she does just  about everything for us.
the hornblower hybrid uses two ten-foot-tall 1,500-watt wind turbines and a 1.5  kw solar array to power all house loads.
to remind our devoted blog readers about the power of batteries, our team of engineers have compiled some fun facts about the batteries on the hornblower hybrid: •
as a showcase of alternative energy, we are able to educate 1.4 million annual visitors about the capabilities of solar, wind and other hybrid technologies.
that is equivalent to taking more than 60 u.s. homes off the grid for  one year, significantly reducing our environmental impact.
for those of you who are interested in hybrid technology, the 64-foot hybrid is the largest of any hybrid ferryboat in the world, making it a prototype that others in the ferry transportation industry can follow.
so how much man power would it actually take to generate enough energy to  power the boat?
fed ex claims to have the largest hybrid package delivery fleet in the u.s. with a total of 264 hybrid trucks.
as part of our dedication to respect our planet, all  countertops on the hornblower hybrid are made from recycled glass – two  thousand skyy vodka bottles to be more exact.
tickets were sold for three special earth day cruises with 100% of the proceeds donated to save the bay, an organization dedicated to protecting, restoring and celebrating the san francisco bay.
for those of you who do not own a toyota prius, a hybrid vessel typically  uses two or more distinct power sources and a combination of a diesel engine  (in our case, tier 2 marine diesel engines) with one or more electric motors.
part of respect our planet’s mission is to educate our guests and increase their environmental awareness.
charter and other information are available atwww.alcatrazcruises.com/hybrid.
posted at 05:15 pm | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0) 07/07/2009 recycled glass countertops made from 2,000 bottles of vodka you host a party, your friends show up, you serve vodka martinis, you  dance, you mingle, say good-bye, clean up the mess and recycle the empty  bottles.
in 2005, hornblower cruises & events was awarded a 10-year contract to  provide transportation across the san francisco bay to alcatraz island.
pg&e was one of 14 utility companies to asses a hybrid diesel-electric truck in it's vehicle fleet, which could potentially cut fuel consumption by 30 to 60 percent.
and although most of our visitors are excited about the wind  and solar technology, we don't want our guests to forget about another  important technology component: battery power!
just a reminder, we recycle batteries on alcatraz landing in san francisco.
one of the boat's most popular education tools, however, is an exercise  bike that is hooked up to a miniature, functioning representation of the same  system that directs solar and wind turbine power to the battery pack.
any excess power is stored in the main propulsion battery banks that allow for zero emissions mode.
instead of starting from scratch,  hornblower acquired an aluminum commercial dive boat to convert into a hybrid  ferry.
full time daily service begins saturday june 11th through september  7th and will continue for the remaining weekends in september.
that is equivalent to taking 58  cars off the road permanently or planting 90 acres of trees.
accessories such as dashboard lights  and air conditioning on the toyota prius, are powered by the battery pack just  like the hornblower hybrid that uses power stored in its battery banks to power  navigation tools, lighting and other electronic needs.
instead of idling at the dock or burning diesel to  keep the lights on, the hybrid will switch between diesel mode and battery mode  in order to save fuel and reduce emissions.
the  national park service contract stipulated that our fleet include ferries that  were built or refitted to a higher level of environmental standards.
signs are  also posted throughout the vessel with information on the "green"  components of the boat, including countertops made of recycled glass to show  passengers firsthand how materials can be reused to reduce our impact on the  planet.
this environmentally progressive vessel showcases the potential  power of alternative energy sources when they are combined with creative  engineering solutions.
the toyota prius instead makes that choice for the driver, automatically  switching from gasoline engine to electric mode, for example, when idling at a  stoplight or driving at low speeds.
if we are moving toward a future of hybrid vehicle fleets, the logical next step would be hybrid vessel fleets.
by reusing and recycling a used diving vessel,  hornblower saved 735,000 kwh of electricity in the construction/retrofit of the  vessel.
posted at 09:07 am | permalink | comments (1) | trackback (0) reduce, reuse, recycle - some may call these the "3 r's" but our team at hornblower refers to these three words as important guidelines to build a hybrid ferry.
after refitting two existing vessels with new engines that reduce emissions by 50% and comply to tier 2 standards, hornblower has taken the next step by introducing a hybrid ferry to to its "green" fleet.
posted at 03:35 pm | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0)
posted at 08:44 am | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0) a boat ride across the san francisco bay to alcatraz and angel island just got a lot greener.
the retrofit, repower and refurbishment took several months to complete and almost 90 percent of the former dive boat was refitted.
the event was a great success, enjoyed by green enthusiasts, families, students and cruisers who were just looking to enjoy a sunny day on the beautiful san francisco bay.
it can be used on  almost any vessel, even a fleet of vessels!
combining these technologies we are able to greatly reduce our fuel consumption and overall emissions.
the toyota prius instead makes that choice for the driver, automatically switching from gasoline engine to electric mode, for example, when idling at a stoplight or driving at low speeds.
we are not making any claims that the hornblower hybrid technology is better than toyota, just different, in that one technology lets you choose between the two modes and the other makes the choice or you.
we are anticipating a fuel savings of nearly 29,000 gallons of diesel over the course of a year... not too shabby!
posted at 09:50 am | permalink | comments (1) | trackback (0) 07/28/2009 growing trend: vehicle-fleet hybrid retrofits recently we wrote about the advantages of recycling and reusing a diving  vessel for the hornblower hybrid and discussed the environmental benefits of  retrofitting a used boat.
our company was just the first to hire an engineering team to design and integrate the systems, making it the first successful implementation of a hybrid passenger ferry in the united states.
compared to a typical ferry boat that burns 25 to 30 gallons of diesel per hour, the hornblower hybrid uses between 5 to 7 gallons per hour.
as a showcase of alternative energy, we are able to educate 1.4 million  annual visitors about the capabilities of solar, wind and other hybrid  technologies.
the hornblower hybrid i s a technological advancement many years in the making, harnessing energy from the sun and the wind, combined with diesel engines, to propel the vessel.
the hornblower hybrid is a visual  platform from which visitors can learn first-hand the capabilities of solar  power, wind power and other hybrid technological advancements.