diesels may produce more smog, but they can also run on biodiesel.
add in the high up-front cost of diesel engines and emission controls and diesel vehicles could become a more costly approach to petroleum reduction than improved gasoline vehicles.
i have some analysis of a slightly radical proposal athttp://ergosphere.blogspot.com/2005/03/forty-two.html and plenty more elsewhere at the ergosphere:http://ergosphere.blogspot.com/ nb: stripping html without prior notice or warning that it is being done (especially from the poster's edit window) is unspeakably rude.
why isn’t ucs clamoring for vehicles like this?
i just want to point out that i cannot imagine the clean diesel enthusiasts i know attacking and attempting to undo legislation that provides incentives for hybrids.
also what is not mentioned is that gasoline vehicles typically give off relatively large quantities of fugitive vocs which diesel vehicles do not (diesel fuel is virtually non-volatile at ambient conditions).
people who are making their money from investments don't need to drive to work.
the problem is that it costs countries like saudi arabia about $2 per barrel to pump oil (which they now sell for $45-55).
mercury has demonstrated a diesel-hybrid vehicle call the meta one which is categorized as pzev, according to mercury.
those problems are especially glaring in contrast to the clear  act approach david talked about in the last post. posted by: sharkey
not to be confused with my dc colleague don mackenzie, who posted the first hybridblog and absconded with the screen name "don," i'm going to use the monicker "sharkey" from here on in.
however, the full disclosure about the air quality impacts of light-duty gasoline and diesel vehicles needs to be made, not just one-sided half-truths.
i don’t know about you, but i wouldn’t call that clean.
shift the hidden costs of petroleum dependence onto petroleum sales itself, rather than using income taxes to pay those hidden costs - lowering the cost to consumers, which encourages continuing our dependence.
as for the b2 etc. - sure, that's a farce.
and remember, hybrid technology does  something that diesel engines alone will never do - serve as a technological  stepping-stone to fuel cell vehicles.
dpf’s should be utilized in this country also.
the diesel technology forum (dtf), an industry trade group, was delighted  to hear the president’s support for diesel vehicles on wednesday.
many of today’s conventional vehicles are several times cleaner than the average vehicle under new tailpipe standards.
virtually all of the nox emitted by diesel engines is in the form of nitrogen oxide (no).
overall, the work you're doing is great.
not to be confused with my dc colleague don mackenzie, who posted the first  hybridblog and absconded with the screen name "don," i'm going to use  the monicker "sharkey" from here on in.
i agree that the details are important and that there does seem to be potential problems.
diesels have a ways to go to even meet theaverage standard, never mind getting cleaner than average.
you make a good point about "either/or" and the potential of diesel, but let me make a few points: 1)
clean diesel efficiency, plus hybrid efficiency, plus a sustainable and renewable biofuel, plus advanced pzev emissions...
how about when they wreck and cause toxic spills harmful to both the occupants and the rescue personel?
diesel fuel actually contains more  energy per gallon than gasoline and producing each gallon of diesel requires  10- 25 percent more petroleum and results in 12-18 percent more heat-trapping  gas emission than a gallon of gasoline—this takes a big chunk out of  diesel’s commonly quoted benefits.
isn't there a better use of ucs time and energy?
and to  top it off, the corolla does 0 to 60 in less than 10 seconds, a couple seconds  faster than the vw’s 11.6 seconds.
while current diesel vehicles typically emit higher levels of particulate matter (pm) than an equivalent gasoline vehicle, particulate filters (dpfs) are being used in europe which reduce the pm emissions to below ambient levels, i.e., dpf-equipped diesel vehicles are functioning as pm filters as they run around.
those problems are especially glaring in contrast to the clear act approach david talked about in the last post.
in fact, this  promise is often overstated.
as for costs, b20 biodiesel where i live is actually less than petro-diesel and even regular grade gasoline.
let’s go back to the vw jetta/toyota corolla comparison again.
main | diesel v. clear act action  » diesel v. hybrid incentives duke it out in d.c.
providing incentives to only diesel vehicles, especially without adequate performance criteria for tailpipe pollutants, is a misguided approach and forces an unnecessary tradeoff between fuel economy and smog or toxic tailpipe emissions.
if performance based incentives are going to include diesel engines, they  must also provide the same benefits to other conventional vehicle technologies  and must require that the vehicles meet or beat the tailpipe emissions  standards for the average new car.
and remember, hybrid technology does something that diesel engines alone will never do - serve as a technological stepping-stone to fuel cell vehicles.
mercury already has a pzev diesel-hybrid engine in development: http://www.mercuryvehicles.com/extras/news/01_10_05_mer_meta_one.asp the clean diesel legislation you are trying to undo does not provide incentives for the diesel engines and fuels of the past - it is aimed at the clean diesel fuel and clean diesel engines of the future.
on thursday, dtf even had a”ride and drive” event on capitol hill touting their “clean, quite, and fun” to drive diesel vehicles.
the problem with the status quo is that the corn lobby fights the hydrogen lobby, and the winner will likely be political rather than practical.
if diesel vehicles are unable to meet progressively tighter emission standards, future progress in protecting public health may stall.
diesel vehicles have certainly become cleaner over the years because of stronger emission standards, but they are still far from the cleanest vehicles on the road today.
so, once alternatives start making a subtantial dent in our petroleum imports, enough that the oil countries are not pumping at full capacity, they can lower prices enough to force alternatives back out of the market, and still be making a tidy profit.
posted by: odograph | may 05, 2005 at 01:08 pm did you guys notice that the "hill drive" page lists some small to midsize diesels, but if you click on their link for a complete list of diesel vehicles, you see a bunch of big trucks?
hybrid and clean diesel are complimentary technologies - not competing.
the new clean diesel fuel will enable advanced diesel emmissions systems to be employed and virtually eliminate all diesel nox and particulate emissions.
now, the house eliminated credits for hybrid vehicles in the energy bill, but supports credits for diesel vehicles in the energy bill they just passed… and now, even thepresident backs polluting consumer incentives by giving taxpayer dollars to diesel vehicles, taking us a step backwards on childhood asthma and lung disease in our elderly.
also, without any form of petroleum tax, just increasing our efficiency will result initially in reducing demand, which will drop petroleum prices, making it more difficult to get the majority of the public to buy efficient vehicles, or use alternatives - so consumption will go back up.
posted by: ted inoue | may 05, 2005 at 06:53 pm hear, hear sharkey!
if you take a look at our report, the diesel dilemma (if you didn't click on the link in sharkey's blog, it's http://www.ucsusa.org/clean_vehicles/cars_and_suvs/page.cfm?pageid=1307), you'll see we are not anti-diesel, but there are questions about it's cost-effectiveness on gas/oil savings and pollution as opposed to advanced gasoline technology.
posted by: sharkey may 03, 2005 | permalink trackback url for this entry: http://www.typepad.com/services/trackback/6a00d8341d665353ef00e5506d57a88833 listed below are links to weblogs that reference diesel v. hybrid incentives duke it out in d.c.: i'm quite disturbed by the high level of anti-diesel discussion on this and its sister site.
in the long run, the only way we can improve our economy (related to energy costs) will be to create a petroleum tax.
posted by: odograph | may 05, 2005 at 11:36 am hi guys, scottn here.
for example, if we calculate that creating, say, a 50 cent per gallon petroleum tax would create an additional $90 billion in tax revenue (that's roughly what it would create), income tax rates would be reduced across the board just enough to reduce income tax revenue by $90 billion).
and to top it off, the corolla does 0 to 60 in less than 10 seconds, a couple seconds faster than the vw’s 11.6 seconds.
but i'm strongly pro plug-in-hybrid.
as our report,the diesel dilemma, shows while  diesels may have a role to play, a diesel-only approach to petroleum reduction  could result in greater costs to consumers than utilizing more efficient  gasoline vehicles for achieving equivalent petroleum reductions.
however, diesel vehicles are needed to utilize biodiesel.
diesel vehicles have certainly become cleaner over the  years because of stronger emission standards, but they are still far from the  cleanest vehicles on the road today.
widespread introduction of diesel cars and trucks is sometimes heralded as  the solution to reducing petroleum consumption in the u.s.
posted by: robert issem | may 05, 2005 at 03:31 pm odograph and scottn - thanks for the thoughts.
let's stop this destructive in-fighting and focus on the the real problems.
so what about fuel economy benefits of diesel vehicles?
mike briggs: if you are talking serious policy efforts here, i'd suggest implementing the countervailing tax reduction as a deductible on employment taxes rather than a reduction in income taxes.
true,  i’m making a comparison of today’s vehicles and not accounting for  the fact that diesel vehicles will have to meet the same set of emission  standards as gasoline cars by 2009.
the only way to do that is with alternatives.
furthermore, diesel vehicles are capable of running on biodiesel (b100).
i think it's important to characterize this not as a "tax increase", but rather shifting a portion of income tax away from that and into a petroleum tax (since as i said, income taxes should be reduced proportionately with the creation of the petroleum tax, so that people are not paying more in total.
add in the high up-front cost of diesel engines and emission controls and  diesel vehicles could become a more costly approach to petroleum reduction than  improved gasoline vehicles.
widespread introduction of diesel cars and trucks is sometimes heralded as the solution to reducing petroleum consumption in the u.s.
i did read "the diesel dilemma" and it does raise some valid points.
additional voc emissions come from the production, distribution, and refueling of gasoline, something for which “tailpipe” emissions do not account.
posted by: aqccm | may 05, 2005 at 12:33 pm rather than creating yet more complex credits to try to create a minor encouragement for something good, it would be far, far simpler and more effective to do one simple thing: create a petroleum fuel tax, to account for all of the hidden costs of petroleum dependence, using the revenue to decrease income taxes proportionately.
posted by: odograph | may 05, 2005 at 01:58 pm hybrids are great, and i agree that we should work to insure incentives are in place to purchase the clean and efficient models - but there's no reason to attack clean diesel technology.
as odograph said, the devil is in the detials, and that's a pretty darned important one.
diesel-hybrids are capable of 30-40% better mileage than gas-hybrids.
i'm afraid the diesel advocates are going to be used to get subsidies to gm for their chevrolet silverado 2500hd duramax turbo diesel 6600 v8
just wanted to quickly join in this conversation with a bit of friendly pushback for ted.
costs are not appreciable.
but the structure of these standards will allow some vehicles to emit a lot more pollution than the average.
hybrids are much cleaner but run on gasoline.
first of all, the statement that the vw jetta tdi makes “…44 times more smog-forming nitrogen oxide emissions…” actually should read “…44 times more smog-depleting nitrogen oxide emissions…” since nitrogen oxide (no) actually destroys ground-level ozone (glo).
robert issem | may 05, 2005 at 03:10 pm
it’s no2 that is the “ozone precursor” in that it photodissociates into no + atomic oxygen (o) which subsequently is available to combine with molecular oxygen (o2) to make ozone.
biofuels are another complimentary technology which can be implemented immediately in any diesel powered or flex fueled vehicle.
it wouldn't be done to get additional revenue, but to accomplish two things: 1.
the problems of continuing our petroleum dependence are so large, and will only get worse, that it should be considered an issue of extreme national importance - economically and strategically (and environmentally, although that's less of a concern to most people) - that it is justifiable to have a "sin tax" on petroleum, to encourage more efficient use, and use of alternatives.
gasoline vehicles would need filters just to keep up!
as our report,the diesel dilemma, shows while diesels may have a role to play, a diesel-only approach to petroleum reduction could result in greater costs to consumers than utilizing more efficient gasoline vehicles for achieving equivalent petroleum reductions.
higher * fund research possible replacements * allow a free market in those replacements that would seem to guarantee that the bad goes away, and the most efficient replaces it.
truly clean diesel can certainly be in the clean car future mix, but we have to have a realistic baseline about what it can do and what the cost will be to the consumer to get there.
posted by: engineer-poet | may 08, 2005 at 11:41 am is there any sort of pollution information that you have regarding the construction of hybrid vehicles and their batteries?
i'd love to be too cycnical, for once!
just achnowledge that our nation's energy and emissions goals must be approached from a number clean engine and clean fuel directions.
much like diesel technology, biodiesel has potential, but still has cost and compatibility issues, not to mention the fact that some are trying to pass 2% biodiesel (b2) mixed with regular diesel as a "green solution" where it really is not, and there is the factor of a 10% increase in nitrogen oxide emissions for 100% biodiesel (though you're talking about major reductions in carbon and soot).
i don’t know  about you, but i wouldn’t call that clean.
even though the diesel jetta receives better fuel economy numbers than the  corolla, they emit the same amount of heat-trapping co2 emissions.
use of biodiesel significantly reduced emissions from diesel engines in and of itself.
now, the house eliminated credits for hybrid vehicles in the energy bill,  but supports credits for diesel vehicles in the energy bill they just  passed… and now, even thepresident backs polluting consumer incentives  by giving taxpayer dollars to diesel vehicles, taking us a step backwards on  childhood asthma and lung disease in our elderly.
level the playing field more for alternative fuels (by having consumers pay the true price of petroleum at the pump), or even give them an advantage.
additionally, beginning next year, diesel fuel in the us will be ulsd (ultra low sulfur diesel) which will enable diesel emisions to be fantastically cleaner.
oh, i suppose the old hummer h1 model (in diesel) might qualify as well.
diesel fuel actually contains more energy per gallon than gasoline and producing each gallon of diesel requires 10- 25 percent more petroleum and results in 12-18 percent more heat-trapping gas emission than a gallon of gasoline—this takes a big chunk out of diesel’s commonly quoted benefits.
posted by: scottn | may 05, 2005 at 12:01 pm the ucs members certainly have a right to their opinions about light-duty diesel vehicles (apparently always with the connotation “dirty”).
even though the diesel jetta receives better fuel economy numbers than the corolla, they emit the same amount of heat-trapping co2 emissions.
this vehicle emits about 44 times more smog-forming nitrogen oxide emissions and between 4 and 8 times more toxic diesel particulate emissions (that's soot, folks) than a comparable toyota corolla .
hi everyone, don anair ca vehicles analyst with my first hybridblog.
we can't pump nearly enough petro here in the us to get us back to importing less than 50% of the oil we use.
if we're going to be successful in reducing overall consumption and finding long term solutions, we have to work together.
posted by: cande | july 28, 2006 at 06:33 pm the comments to this entry are closed.
if performance based incentives are going to include diesel engines, they must also provide the same benefits to other conventional vehicle technologies and must require that the vehicles meet or beat the tailpipe emissions standards for the average new car.
fedex is already using diesel hybrids in some of their delivery trucks.
the point of contention i have is that the messages here seem largely to be anti-diesel.
best, robert issem callaway, va posted by:
many of today’s conventional vehicles are several times cleaner than the  average vehicle under new tailpipe standards.
this shouldn't become an either/or debate between hybrid and diesel advocates.
the diesel technology forum (dtf), an industry trade group, was delighted to hear the president’s support for diesel vehicles on wednesday.
hope helps clarify this a bit.
i could just as easily point to the misleading claims made for hybrids or hydrogen etc.
for example, take the diesel vw jetta.
diesel vehicles might go 30 to 40 percent farther on a gallon of diesel,  but that’s not the whole story.
we can't come close to that $2 per barrel with any alternative, now or in the foreseeable future.
what's not to like!?!
diesel vehicles might go 30 to 40 percent farther on a gallon of diesel, but that’s not the whole story.
diesels have a ways to go to even meet theaverage standard, never mind  getting cleaner than average.
true, i’m making a comparison of today’s vehicles and not accounting for the fact that diesel vehicles will have to meet the same set of emission standards as gasoline cars by 2009.
we have a faq on biodiesel that does a pretty nice job surveying the landscape, you can find it at http://www.ucsusa.org/clean_vehicles/trucks_and_buses/page.cfm?pageid=1415.
encourage people to buy gas-electric and diesel-electric hybrids, and run them on ethanol and biodiesel.
« serious cash back on hybrids |
posted by: ted inoue | may 04, 2005 at 07:55 pm ted - just another visitor here, but i think this is another case where the devil is in the details.
absolutely no petroleum, a completely renewably fueled with a closed carbon cycle resulting in a net of zero co2 emissions.
i bought a diesel last year because it was what i could get (i couldn't even find a prius to sit in, let alone test drive)
in my opinion as an air quality scientist (yes, i’m a “concerned scientist” too, i just don’t happen to agree with all of ucs’s positions, especially on diesel vehicles), anthropogenic vocs are what are causing glo levels to remain stubbornly high in many urban areas.
providing incentives to only diesel vehicles, especially without adequate  performance criteria for tailpipe pollutants, is a misguided approach and  forces an unnecessary tradeoff between fuel economy and smog or toxic tailpipe  emissions.
ucs’s opposition to tax credits for clean diesel is ill-founded and ill-conceived in my opinion.
both have their place.
but that simply skirts the real issues - all these technologies can contribute substantially to the global reduction of conventional oil consumption.
in fact, the energy bill in the house could make this prospect a reality by encouraging the sale of diesels that emit as much as 10 times more smog forming pollutants than some of the hybrids already on the road.
i own a two 2004 vw diesels and fuel both with fuel grown right in my home state of virginia - b100 soy biodiesel.
the potential of the pih for slashing need for fuel of all kinds should not be underestimated.
so what about fuel economy benefits of diesel vehicles?  glad you  asked.
are you satisfied with gas-hybrids which only get about the same mileage as diesel vehicles with a conventional transmission (and that’s mostly only in stop-and-go city traffic)?
main | diesel v. clear act action »
in fact, this promise is often overstated.
ucs apparently endorses biodiesel.
it's not a jab, i am just curious.
for example, take the diesel vw  jetta.  this vehicle emits about 44 times more smog-forming nitrogen oxide  emissions and between 4 and 8 times more toxic diesel particulate emissions  (that's soot, folks) than a comparable toyota corolla .
the right solution is to tax oil so that alternatives become much more desirable to the general public and remain competitive.
in fact, the energy bill in the house could make this  prospect a reality by encouraging the sale of diesels that emit as much as 10  times more smog forming pollutants than some of the hybrids already on the road.
if the government was really going to support the small, efficient, and increasingly clean diesels they have in europe that might be good - especially if moves to clean up those diesels pay off.
the "either/or" choice was made by the house, which eliminated all non-diesel incentives in the energy bill, and made those incentives such that it does not push toward truly cleaner diesel.
no one is going to do this of course, so it is more a suggested direction than a policy.
not so with diesels.
on thursday, dtf even had a”ride and drive” event on capitol hill  touting their “clean, quite, and fun” to drive diesel  vehicles.
of course, this is our government, our president, our congress ... which makes me think they are using this "and diesel" clause to pay off detroit and subsidize those huge 4x4 diesel king-cab trucks i see being used as "communter cars" down here in orange county, ca.
my current thinking is that the combination of three things will yield optimum results: * tax “bad” energy, and “hogs” of bad energy
hybrid gasoline, clean diesel, and hybrid clean diesel all have a place in our future.
i hope that the diesel incentives don't encourage more guzzling.
a petroleum tax would both encourage people to purchase more efficient vehicles, and *also* use domestic alternative fuels.
saudi arabia and other oil countries could sell oil for $20 per barrel and still have a huge profit margin.
if diesel vehicles are unable to meet  progressively tighter emission standards, future progress in protecting public  health may stall.
scottn - while it is true that our beloved gov't decided to cut the non-diesel incentives, i propose that your time would be best spent with the positive message - ensure that incentives continue for all 'green' vehicles.
we need long term solutions.
personally, i look forward to buying a clean-diesel hybrid that i'll run on ulsbiod :)
the common enemy are the gas guzzling suvs and other low-efficiency vehicles.
but that argument is throwing the baby out with the bathwater.
say we can produce biodiesel for $30 per barrel.
since the majority of consumers buy based solely on price, that will just force competitors back out of the market, and put us right back at being wholly dependent on petroleum.
posted by: mike briggs | may 05, 2005 at 01:05 pm i think mike briggs and i are on the same page.
ultimately, i agree with mike briggs.
but the structure of these standards  will allow some vehicles to emit a lot more pollution than the average.