ever used the u-scan line at the local grocery store?
as johnny carson said, "if it isn't broke, don't fix it."
it's true, my mother didn't teach me how to fish but she taught me respect, curiosity, and instilled in me a sense of wonder about the world and the people who live in it.
archuleta seniors, inc., also known as asi, is a non-profit corporation, organized exclusively for charitable purposes under 501(c)(3) of the internal revenue code.
archuleta seniors, inc. works to promote and enhance the health, well being, social, cultural and intellectual activities of its members.
we have lots of fun with it; it is a community celebration where we can get together and help out with an important cause.
when asked how the project determines the number and sizes of trout to stock, cano explained that donors complete a form suggesting their preferences.
i finely dice some celery.
it will enable us to guide what kind of growth we have  and where.
they are ancient but there is nothing bad in that.
students will attend classes in voice, improvisation and  monologue/scene studies.
birth certificates issued by a  hospital are not acceptable.
to purchase tickets with a credit card, or for additional information, call 731-5582 or visit www.folkwest.com.
both of which, julien asserts, pose a direct threat to their national security.
two-day or single day tickets for the festival are on sale at moonlight  books.
she said ballots can be filled  out and returned at the same time, or electors can take the ballot away and  return it by election day.
offerings also include a kids program, arts and crafts  vending, on-site camping and more.
but this  was a straightforward drawing of cherries covered in ice.
the first tournament was held in the spring of 2003.
here the town and county's gain is directly related to the size and success of  the festival.
the night was spectacular, said white, following the august 2005 viewing.
and, as woody guthrie once said: "it's not enough for a song to be good, it must be good for something."
to cast their ballots, voters will have a choice between the familiar paper ballot or using one of the new voting machines.
while my father taught me how to read a trout stream, my mother taught me  the pleasures of reading and instilled in me a love of books.
the signs entertained and the company profited, but when phillip morris  bought the company, they dropped the signs and began advertising in nfl  programs with tv ads a minute long.
the improvements were subsequently completed as promised, at an estimated cost of $27,000.
two sacrifices put him on third
temporary resident card, i-688b and i-766 employment  authorization card.
enterprise zone marketing funds have come to us through region 9 economic development district of southwest colorado, and it is their report that helps demonstrate the value of the festival.
he senses  the curse cast upon sophie and agrees to help her break it if she can find a  way to help him break a spell that binds him and howl together.
as part of the may 23 adoption hearing, the board will also decide on a  zoning transition plan that will provide a set of procedures for the creation  of the county's first official zoning map.
of the seven originally considered, three were priced above the $105,000 budgeted, another was a demo with 14,000 miles on it and a fourth couldn't be ready for nearly eight months.
they also were awarded the judges' over-all trophy,  acknowledging their musical achievement in their division, which included seven  public school choirs from colorado springs, gilpin county, leadville, alamosa,  casper, cheyenne and laramie.
new this year: - fiber arts competition: fiber artists will enter their prize creations,  offering the public a view of wonderfully handcrafted pieces of clothing and  home accessories.
it was also a great reminder of how important it is for all of us to keep the traditions that were started 25 years ago alive in our community.
one of our great volunteers, interior designer anita sherman-hughes, took the decoration of the table on as her library project (some volunteers ask for one-time projects rather than regular weekly library work) for the year.
we opted for  the full-day excursion, and true to form we sat in the open car in the chill of  the early morning, eating pastries and sipping espressos.
drive one block to peregrine place, turn left, and the karas house is at 160 peregrine place, the second driveway on the left - a cream-colored, earth-berm passive solar structure.
there is also a mini-documentary  detailing hayao miyazaki's visit to pixar studios for one of the first u.s.  premieres of the film, and a japanese interview with director pete docter of  pixar studios.
in the 110-meter hurdles, brian patane crossed the line at 17.46, good for second place.
turn east on greenbrier drive off of north pagosa by the fire station, then left into the back parking lot and look for the big sign.
psac auction are you an artist new to pagosa springs?
this is the largest fund-raiser for archuleta seniors, inc.
tell her often and plainly how much you love her.
do boards of directors use a ritual in opening and closing their meeting?
trujillo began his active service in 1951, when he volunteered for service in the korean war in the 25th infantry division, 14th company l.
just prior to adjournment, when pressed for a quick comment on the  reservoir matter, district manager carrie campbell said, "we had three  days of court testimony, each side presented its case, and the judge will  render a decision within a month.
reluctantly, she takes refuge in the castle.
she taught me to trust what people say, to give people the benefit of the doubt, that people are generally good and forthright, that they are honorable until proven otherwise.
then there's the simp who can't find the number codes for items.
i'll need something to nibble on while i watch the show.
officials would like  the adult swans to be comfortable during the repair of the dam on pinon  causeway and not abandon their nest.
but, as the board began to address requests for reconsideration of various fees assessed to developers and private landowners recently, progress quickly ground to a screeching halt.
at the same time, according to the region 9 report, "the preservation of a rural lifestyle and landscape has been identified as priorities in all discussions of economic development in the region."
phase one: construct at cloman property a 50x60 metal building that would serve as a temporary shelter to house all incoming and adoptable animals.
gunnar gill won the race in 53.89; chase moore took second place at 56.67.
located right on hot springs blvd.
see, george isn't the only tyrant.
if someone wants to read the journal of the american medical association, that is his right; but he doesn't have a right to complain that the articles use medical terms.
i add panko to the ground turkey along with minced onion and garlic, salt and pepper, a bit of oregano.
a pre-bedtime  nap gives you that boost of energy needed to finish that last chapter, that  last quilting square, or that last paragraph of a writing project, before you  seriously head for bed somewhere around 3 a.m.
233, for details as restrictions apply (drought conditions may restrict this program).
and while trusting others was key, most importantly, she taught me to trust myself, because she did, when many probably didn't.
if you need a little preliminary coaching, come early at ten."
at 2 p.m., eddie spaghetti will read his book, "a visitor in the  dark," and sing a few songs from his latest cd.. the day of fun in the park lasts from 11 a.m.-4 p.m., and includes several  fun activities that are free of charge.
having read the book just last  summer, i can say that the film hardly follows the book at all.
sign up for these programs  begins june 1 at the library.
in 2005, 183 participants trekked up and down the mesa, often in the dead of night.
burma shave car in ditch - driver in tree
and, see barb draper's column in this issue of the preview about the children's programs for pagosa reads!
schedules will be available at town hall may 16 and will be posted weekly on the town web site, in the sun and recorded on the sports hotline.
moving on to associate members, we welcome juli morelock.
it's hard to  beat sleeping away an afternoon in a field full of wildflowers, only to wake up  rejuvenated, casting for cutthroats as the sun goes down.
chimney rock archaeological area is located three miles south on colo. 151,  which is 17 miles west of pagosa springs via u.s. 160.
the group gratefully accepts any donations, which  are tax deductible.
she scoured and begged and bargained and bought an amazing bunch of dishes, goblets, napkin rings and table decorations (from ebay yet).
there were trips to the grocery store, times of sickness, the never-ending packing of school lunches, and the countless shuttles to soccer games and after school activities.
if you regularly see a bear on your property, assess the situation by  discovering what is attracting the bear and take steps to remove the attractant.
families can purchase wristbands that bundle the full day of entertainment  and fun, including a lunch provided by kiwanis, t-shirt decorating, a family  swim at the spa, and the eddie spaghetti concert and spaghetti dinner held at  the community center at 4:30 p.m.
leist did not call during the session, and david alvord, senior planner and interim director of county development, filled leist's role.
if you are interested in joining the choir, contact sue diffee at 731-1305  or pam spitler at 264-1952.
what kind of woman must his mother be?"
prior to the election, madrid said electors will receive a signature card  in the mail.
friends have organized a may 27 benefit for zellner and invite everyone to  bring donated items to be auctioned off.
public invited to review and comment on plan revisions the san juan public lands center is hosting round of public meetings in may  to offer updates on the san juan national forest management plan/blm resource  management plan revisions and to get feedback on three resource topics not  discussed in detail during last year's study group meetings: - draft travel suitability: areas where motorized use is appropriate, where  motorized use is emphasized, and where non-motorized use is emphasized; - draft mineral lease areas: areas where oil and gas leasing is being  considered; - draft inventory of rivers and streams eligible for consideration as wild  and scenic rivers maps showing the latest version of land allocations for the revised plan  and possible alternatives will also be available for review.
the proposed dry gulch project has come under fire from the five rivers chapter of trout unlimited and the san juan citizens alliance.
in the past, being in an overlay district meant extra regulation and no net  benefit to the landowner.
we plan to meet at 9 a.m. at the vista clubhouse then drive to the trail access point and walk into the canyon.
kids' programs by barb draper special to the preview why is water important?
the elementary science students have been learning how to grow block gardens.
donations sought for fish stocking project by chuck mcguire staff writer fishing in the san juan river through pagosa springs is about to improve  dramatically.
on her journey, she comes across wizard howl's  moving castle, a giant, lumbering mechanical beast that crawls across the  countryside at great speeds.
by larry lynch and john applegate special to the sun the pagosa area trails council is alive and well, even though we have not  been in the news much this past year.
students relaxed by attending a dance that also gave them the opportunity mingle with fbla students from other schools.
one new hut at hotz springs is complete and the other at monument park is very close.
care corp. will miss her commitment.
adopt a home-delivered route today and brighten the lives of a few senior citizens.
i've been all over the world.
so remember to attend tuesday evening practice and pick-up games at south pagosa park's horseshoe courts, just north of the basketball courts.
in february, the association held its annual governor's tag auction in  grand junction.
i counted six big tankers from venezuela dock the one day we were there.
to  purchase tickets with a credit card, or for additional information, call  731-5582 or visit www.folkwest.com.
in february, the association held its annual governor's tag auction in grand junction.
pirates' season ends with 10-inning loss by randy johnson staff writer the pagosa springs pirates had to play monte vista for a third time in less than five days in the intermountain league district baseball tournament held on the monte vista field last saturday.
in doing so, they will have to post a bond,  which protects the forest service from incurring significant costs related to  subsequent road damage.
pagosa reads features book reviews of all kinds of books from the ruby m. sisson memorial library, reviewed by local readers just like you.
the gps model of choice being reviewed will be the garmin etrex legend.
horseshoes horseshoe pitching at south pagosa park will continue each tuesday from 5-7 p.m. through september.
it's a long time coming," alvord said.
their marketing system was simple.
"we love doing it,"  said the whites.
we were  productive citizens as health permitted.
examples are home-delivered and congregate meal programs, senior transportation and the home chore program.
all steering, no brakes.
while in  elementary school, she fed my habit with regular trips to the library and she  never discouraged long saturday mornings spent in bed finishing up a sci-fi,  fantasy or adventure novel.
in february of this year she taught an acting course at fort lewis college.
the team of mackey, low caprioli and lowe was third in the 4x100, at 54:47.
she said she was looking for "aesthetic quality and some  evidence that the artist was thinking about something when creating the art.
there will be a nominal entry fee for each tree.
most of these programs are closely tied to publicly funded programs which require stringent accounting.
county hired animal control officers.
"i was really proud to serve in the military.
the appetizing lunches are served hot and ready to eat.
" his father's people were all the same."
write him a thank you note, mr. dungan, for his part in helping with  gasoline conservation.
"the boys' four-by-one hundred was extremely close to qualifying," said coach connie o'donnell.
we are paying the price for a lack of foresight on the part of community leaders 50, 30, 25 years ago.
i would like to commend the organizers of all the activities that went on this past weekend.
his lack of preparation is easy to see.
i have a plan to rid the u-scan line of the feebs who clutter the process.
you can soar over the animas river and through the aspens, and be rappelled to the forest floor, all with the aid of guides.
we would like to have several of these work days over the course of the  summer and early fall.
chelsea cooper was third in the 300 hurdles, at 51.45.
preschool story hour formal story hour will not be held between now and tuesday, june 27, when our big summer reading program begins.
the staff is recommending that the taking of prairie dogs on public lands be prohibited statewide on all species from march 1 to may 31 to provide protection of breeding adults and dependent young.
it was simply  masterful execution.
the whites believed  the tournament was a great way to raise money to supplement what had already  been donated, and to keep the scholarship active.
i'm sure some of that refined gasoline winds up in the u.s. aruba, which is 18 miles off the venezuelan coast, turned down a similar agreement because they didn't want to get the shaft from hugo chavez like curacao did.
by lynne bridges special to the preview seeds of learning's playin' in the park is saturday and there will be fun  for the whole family.
a new class is forming now.
move  pole barn to house crematorium.
the cover of the calendar features a painting by claire goldrick, titled "evening rhapsody" depicting chimney rock in a vibrant color scheme.
both districts would have to be approved by a majority of registered voters  living in the concerned areas, and both could take on various forms, depending  on exact community needs.
one of his sayings was, "folks who never get paid for any more than  they do.
after an early evening meal at orlando's, i convinced my mother and sister to join me for an evening of flyfishing on the rio hondo just outside of town.
many of these events are free to the public.
these include a variety of restrictions pertaining to  off-highway vehicles, camping and dogs at these state wildlife areas: echo  canyon, williams creek, lake deweese and gypsum ponds.
about a quarter of the nation's population, approximately 63 million people, are potentially eligible for va benefits and services because they are veterans, family members or survivors of veterans.
a lot of time and effort went into this plan and the document is used extensively by both the town and county planning departments whenever trail issues come up.
eisner of disney was making $23,000 a day when he was their ceo.
in color photography, i loved "fish wanting to fly," by jefferey jue, oakland, calif., a playful, yet thought provoking and brilliantly executed photograph.
a lot of time and effort went into this plan and the document is  used extensively by both the town and county planning departments whenever  trail issues come up.
the detailed colored-pencil drawing looked more  like a photograph or a pastel painting than colored pencil.
- current conditions provide a poor environment for encouraging adoptions.
the fund was  established in 1997 by bill daniels, a pioneer in cable television known for  his kindness and generosity to those in need.
meanwhile, earlier concerns over the potential effects on stocking by the town's planned river improvements have apparently dissolved, as those plans have encountered bureaucratic delays that may push them into next year.
the leader of the lodge is called master of the lodge for the same reason the leader of an orchestra is called the concert master, or a highly skilled electrician is called a master electrician, or the leader of a scout troop is called a scoutmaster.
we're missing just a few points in a few places.
participants are also paying for the program itself, which will occur unless weather conditions are deemed unsafe.
- wednesday, sept. 13, 9:15 p.m., quarter (half-moon) moonrise.
- the commission considered proposed dates for upcoming waterfowl seasons.
just a little news about the status of our free computer classes.
contact barbara witkowski at (264-4543 for information about workshops or  e-mail workshops@pagosafiberfestival.com.
scott zesch graduated from texas a&m, and harvard law school.
bears are generally shy and usually avoid humans, but their need for food  and sense of smell often draws them to human residences.
connie (jaeger) reinglass pine ridge
we are still in need of three team sponsors for our pinto division.
archuleta seniors, inc. even offers financial assistance for medical shuttles to durango handled by the den.
the solution to better images is a simple understanding of photography and it normally takes no more effort than making endless mistakes.
tree program - the town is continuing its residential tree program this year in which the town will pay half the price of a tree to be planted between the front of a house and a town street.
parents who have not been contacted with roster information by the end of this week should call the office monday at 264-4151, ext.
oktoberfest volunteers october is fast approaching, and archuleta seniors, inc. is looking for volunteers to serve on committees charged with making this the best oktoberfest ever in pagosa springs.
but where we are going, we cannot tell you.
if you think this does not affect you, think again.
scott maxwell, there is a strong suspicion the two  incidents are related.
"the u.s. is a  nation of immigrants and their descendants; several artists refer explicitly to  their immigrant heritage, while other draw on native heritage," chancey  wrote in her juror's statement.
the arthritis self-help course is a group education program, led by a trained instructor and designed to help you learn and practice the different skills needed to build your own individualized self-management program and gain confidence to carry it out.
though the colorado division of wildlife permits the annual project, it is considered supplementary, because it is not part of the official dow stocking program conducted each year.
for more information, contact psac at 264-5020.
the tuesday class, by the way, is open to anyone; the wednesday one is for seniors.
the park fun staff is already in full swing, planning a fun, active and safe summer for your children.
currently, the waiting list has enough people on it to fill both the tuesday and the wednesday classes.
the end of the successful premier school year for tierra alta schools is almost here, including end-of-the-year projects, trips and activities.
as we all know, employment economies in archuleta are currently based  primarily on tourism, construction and retail trade.
if you are interested in joining the council, we meet as a group once a month, on the second wednesday of the month at the chamber of commerce meeting room during the lunch hour.
your child will get plenty of fresh air, exercise and fun.
come in and pick up a copy of our latest newsletter; it details many of the community center-sponsored programs which are regularly presented here.
the choir hosts a monthly sing-a-long at pine ridge extended care center and repeats the concert for those who were unable to attend.
the 2007 calendar, priced at $9.95, is scheduled for sale beginning july 1 at the town park gallery and at several local businesses.
i'd like to think i've  absorbed some of that from her, and that patience is an integral part of who i  am today.
and aside from the momentary drama between plan opponent sandy bramwell and  archuleta county commissioner ronnie zaday, who offered a stiff, emphatic  rebuttal and ultimate denial of bramwell's "put-it-to-the-voters"  request, the meeting moved forward without incident, and drew a  standing-room-only crowd, including full representation from the county's  planning commission, attendance by county planning staff and archuleta county  commissioners mamie lynch and ronnie zaday.
ours is on the mend; we'll keep you posted.
baked goods will be available for purchase after each concert.
polling places, procedures changed by james robinson staff writer archuleta county voters accustomed to casting their ballots by precinct are in for a change.
the center will come alive friday, may 19, with music from dj michael murphy from durango.
you can extend your limitations the more you stretch and rotate your joints, which promotes flexibility.
there will be tables designed by businesses and creative individuals.
expectations for next year are high with several new students planning to  join the tierra alta schools family in the fall.
we'll taste and talk.
john hoffman reached base on an error and the pirates took their first lead of the game at 7-5 with only one earned run.
for more information about this extreme, nearby outdoor activity, call dionne at 769-2367 or check out their site at www.soaringcolorado.com.
i'm sure  some of that refined gasoline winds up in the u.s. aruba, which is 18 miles off  the venezuelan coast, turned down a similar agreement because they didn't want  to get the shaft from hugo chavez like curacao did.
maybe he was a modern day benjamin franklin.
yet as earthy as their music seems, the circus has a spiritual side - "talkin' to the buddha," "call to the mystic," "living with god" and "flapjacks from the sky" dance freely between religious and philosophical mythologies.
50 years ago taken from sun files of may 10, 1956 a group of local businessmen and interested citizens met last week to discuss the possible widening of main street in the business district so that additional parking facilities would be available.
proof again we need to amp up the process of creating and implementing regulations so we do not leave utter wreckage for those to come.
we have scheduled a trail work day for martinez canyon saturday may 20.
there they are: clem and elly may, slowly scanning the 4,256 items they've crammed in three grocery baskets - baskets blocking the path of we u-scan pros - one frozen burrito at a time.
the pagosa fiber festival is a perfect fit for the community at this critical juncture in its history.
- do not place meat or sweet-smelling food scraps such as melon rinds in a  compost pile.
in order to fully comply under the 10-precinct scenario, madrid said the county would have to provide the remaining $105,000 - funds madrid said, the county does not have.
art the pagosa reads!
of his eight brothers, all but one - due to work-related disability - served in the military: four in world war ii, trujillo in korea, and two in vietnam.
beginning to advanced classes and individual lessons on guitar, banjo and mandolin are on the schedule.
will they choose the modest bungalow with some fix-up necessary, or will they go beyond their comfort zone, break the budget and spend a lot more on that loft lance has always wanted?
granted, there is a need for affordable housing.
the festival is also now permanently settled into the  memorial day weekend date, may 27-28.
call 731-3117 to register.
if there is a cancellation due to bad weather, the sports hotline (264-6658) will be updated accordingly and the games will be rescheduled.
may 11, 2006 front pagemay 11, 2006 front page land use code approved, 2 key players absent by james robinson staff writer it was like a scene from houston's mission control, but instead of neil armstrong's voice announcing the safe touchdown of a lunar lander, it was the voice of larry garcia, chair of the archuleta county planning commission, announcing successful completion of stage one in the approval process for the county's revised land use code and zoning program.
the camp will provide instruction in all phases of the game, especially shooting skills.
now  is your chance to learn how to play this beautiful melodic instrument.
- united states or united states territory certified court order of adoption (must include date of birth).
it took action on  several issues and referred other items for further study and discussion.
1996 - repairs and improvements completed at shelter.
the colorado division of wildlife (dow) reminds people that an ounce of  prevention is worth 200 pounds of cure.
"we cannot afford the travel that's involved and i think our resources are better spent for the immediate needs in archuleta county," lynch said.
the  kind with wood slats and narrow steel runners.
in 1998 gandalf murphy and the slambovian circus of dreams (try fitting that one on a festival poster!)
then, there's the mental midget who can't figure out the machine itself, even with perfectly clear instructions delivered in english or espanol.
the initial impact will be a reduction of growth and limited flowering and seed production in infested plants.
the book is at the sisson library.
the town will pay half the price of a tree to be planted between the front of the house and a town street.
volunteers needed for home meal program are you looking for a way to volunteer some time to your community and make an immediate impact on someone's life?
the infested plants should be placed in direct contact with the bindweed that is to be infested.
almost every organization has a special vocabulary of words which are understood by the group.
arts and crafts show all of us, including 30 artists/artisans, are excited by the variety and quality of items which will be offered for sale at the annual arts and crafts show at the community center 3-6 p.m. friday, may 26, and 9 a.m.-4 p.m. saturday, may 27.
" the kindergarten teacher sadly noted, "such lack of training never did i see.
it can be done again with your help, if not there may be a chance it will be gone and lost forever.
soon after our evening along the rio hondo, our trip culminated in durango with a trip on the durango and silverton narrow gauge railroad.
" cantare singers range in age from 8 to 16 and have been in rehearsal since january for this event and for the upcoming spring concert to be presented at 3 p.m. may 13, at the high school auditorium.
those present at the meeting all expressed themselves as being heartily in favor of such a project.
they also wanted some way of giving back to a community that had captured  their hearts with a remarkable outpouring of generosity and love during their  most difficult time.
october 1993 - repair and remodeling of shelter.
moonset: 5:22 a.m. may 12.
your child requires a sack lunch, sunscreen and a towel; we will provide the fun.
join now and acquire the benefits for 2006.
unavailable in arboles.
the need there are many reasons why a new animal shelter must be built at a different location: - the land on which the current animal shelter was built is less than an acre.
despite the third-place league finish, o'donnell is upbeat about the girls' prospects at regionals.
burma shave - a guy who drives a car wide open is not thinkin'
during the summer, the center is open 8 a.m.-6 p.m. monday through friday; 10-4 on saturday.
further information
all applicants must provide their own vehicle and be available in one-hour increments once a week.
the division of wildlife donates one mule deer license to the association that can be used by a hunter anywhere in the state.
bear damage to bird feeders is a common complaint.
children 12 and under are admitted free with an accompanying adult.
another daytime class will be offered for those who cannot make an evening class.
under the law, va recognizes these war periods: - mexican border period and world war i are recognized as official war periods, but i do not believe there are any veterans of these conflicts now alive or residing in this area.
after seven years in the service, trujillo met his wife, clorinda (gallegos) trujillo, also a pagosa springs native.
it didn't turn out that way, but it sure came close.
he was gruff and determined to the outside, but there is an interchange of understanding and sympathy with the indians.
with a sound that toes the line  between tom petty and electric bob dylan with a smattering of greg brown and a  twist of celtic rhythms thrown in for good measure, the band's charismatic live  performances and whimsical blend of folk, rock, hillbilly and pop have  captivated audiences and critics alike.
i brewed a pot and we sat around sipping  and talking for an hour then went to bed.
after their demand that the question of zoning and the land use code be put to county voters was denied, the handful trickled out of the meeting room.
whether you want a meal delivered one or four times a week, we can accommodate your needs.
it didn't phase them."
preregister for the summer camp by april 17 and save $10 per session.
participants will work from photographs, provided by mion.
some time during the past year, when i was watching the tv show,  "jeopardy," a question was asked.
two fbla students qualified to attend the fbla national leadership  conference held in nashville, tenn., june 28-july 3.
"salida has some tough girls," said the coach.
travis furman was third in the 800, finishing in 2:12.39.
call the parks and recreation office at  264-4151, ext.
another problem that i felt would be that some of miyazaki's artistic liberties in his adaptation seemed out of place at times.
all work must be original in concept and created without the assistance of an instructor.
judges should be available two days prior to the show openings for judging.
it's a technique i employ  nightly, and i've used napping to great effect on trout streams.
i didn't see the artist pushing any boundaries or exploring any interesting ideas.
" bruvel's other sculpture, "mask of whispers" is a stainless steel female head, bound with other faces cut out and protruding from windows in the forehead and cheek.
in return, landowners agreed to supply a community lock for the gate and  monitor its use, restricting access to all but authorized users and essential  service providers.
the dvd features on the two-disc edition of "howl's moving  castle" are plentiful.
scholarships will be available, with decisions made on a case-by-case basis.
mr. graves then turned the bulk over to me and i personally went out and bought sheep for him.
the man had the reputation for loyalty and taking the initiative.
therefore, in order to bring the direct recording equipment to archuleta county as per the hava mandate, madrid said she opted to establish vote centers.
in effect, julien says, the extraterrestrials caused sw3's 1995 fragmentation and sent scores of galactic ice hunks hurtling toward earth in an effort to thwart the united states' global and galactic hegemony.
when completed, this will be an amazing trail system that has the advantage of being within walking distance of many residents in the community, or at the most a short car or bike ride away.
if you  are interested in helping revive what was once a great chance to see, learn and  hear the traditions that many of our residents grew up with, in pagosa springs  and the surrounding areas, come help us get this going again.
- temporary colorado paper driver license, colorado 7-day affidavit and  notice of revocation or affidavit and notice of suspension.
this dance will be a combination fund-raiser for the community center monthly dance program and a fun event to kick off the bike tour of colorado which begins the next day.
there will be activities for preschool through grade six in "paws, claws, scales and tales" and there will be a separate series of programs for teens called "creature features."
eddie spaghetti will be on hand to sign autographs as well.
hours are 10 a.m.-5 p.m. tuesday through saturday.
the oil and gas regulations include criteria for monitoring methane content in water wells, mitigation requirements to minimize the impact of oil and gas truck traffic on county roads and setbacks for oil and gas sites near recreational areas and schools.
the coach attributed much of that positive attitude to good team leadership, in particular from senior mia caprioli.
this year's four-person scramble tournament is set for a 10 a.m. shotgun  start saturday, may 13, at the pagosa springs golf club.
it's hardly appropriate for someone outside a group, and without the special knowledge of the group, to object to the terms unless he or she full understands them and why they are used.
what began as an event conceived of and sponsored by one family - the belt  family of echo mountain alpaca - has moved into the non-profit world with a  board of directors.
win, and you go on to another match.
238, and if hardship is confirmed, the town will enter property and remove the junk with the landowner present.
call  if you are interested.
2006 - implemented home visit program prior to adoption of dogs.
a big thank you is extended to all 34 of our 2006 luncheon sponsors who  helped support our event; we couldn't have done it without you: david and carol  brown, jack and katy threet, wells fargo bank, citizen's bank of pagosa  springs, edward jones investments, kwuf, jann c. pitcher real estate, the  pagosa springs sun, appraisal services, bank of colorado, bank of the san  juans, circle t/ace hardware, declark granite and fabrication, elk meadows  river resort llc, hart construction, hart's rocky mountain retreat, home again,  pagosa brat, rio grande savings and loan, wolf creek rod works, aspen tree  veterinary clinic, century 21/ wolf creek land, peggy cotton, first southwest  bank, great divide title, harmony works organic café, old west press,  paint connection plus, pagosa photography, pagosa veterinary clinic, ruby m.  sisson memorial library, jim smith realty, the hideout and the tile store.
gandalf murphy's music is not only uplifting and empowering, but fun.
the men and women of his day and age offered of themselves utterly and completely, to secure a hope in the life americans dream to achieve.
this  is where the council needs your help.
in addition to his satisfaction with the oil and gas regulations, alvord  was pleased with the land use code project as a whole.
if you have visited our current shelter, it would not come as a surprise  that our existing facility is outdated and we are out of space for future  expansion.
mary carpenter dear mammo, (mary carpenter) god saw she was getting tired
please call ben bailey at 264-0293 or e-mail him at benbaileynewton@yahoo.com if you plan to attend.
the council will provide tools; please wear a good pair of work boots, work  gloves and bring sunscreen and water.
odd that this paving project now goes to a point just beyond where developers want that second entrance to come through.
24.3 million vets of the 24.3 million veterans currently alive, nearly three-quarters served during a war or an official period of conflict.
the property is easily accessible via the well-maintained cloman boulevard and is already tapped into municipal water and sewer.
sign up early, by calling psac at 264-5020.
however, i felt chancey's focus on immigration, a hot political issue,  influenced her choices more than the aesthetic resolution of the work.
after learning of opler's report, bia commissioner john collier ordered field representative louis balsam to investigate opler's claims.
- do not place meat or sweet-smelling food scraps such as melon rinds in a compost pile.
bayfield, the iml winner, will be at the meet, as will centauri.
performing as a solo act, a sideman or with his various bands, hayes has given over 3,000 performances in many of america's finest music venues including the fox theater-boulder, the berkshire performing arts center, the great american music hall-san francisco, and at several prominent music festivals.
there will also be a cash wine and beer bar.
the overwhelming support, not only from the voters, but also from all the  citizens who donated their time and money toward this cause is very  heartwarming.
they are pretty similar.
two fbla students qualified to attend the fbla national leadership conference held in nashville, tenn., june 28-july 3.
john hoffman walked to put two on.
- yarn competition: fiber artists will enter hand-spun yarns of every  style, color and natural material imaginable, in either advanced or novice  classes.
they were a necessity.
the division of wildlife is monitoring the situation.
we hope you take advantage of this educational and supportive opportunity to help you overcome some of the challenges of arthritis.
another goof is trying to scan a cantaloupe.
we look forward to seeing you and to having you as a regular visitor to the center.
my bet is the loft, since this is america and credit is never a burden or a worry.
this effort includes dumpsters available throughout town for deposit of junk, household trash and larger items.
the time varies each day: 11 a.m.-4 p.m. on may 20; 2-4 p.m. may 21; and 4-8 p.m. may 22.
moving over to the west side of town, we have renewing real estate member, roger horton and fairfield pagosa realty.
by press time, the sun was unable to confirm how many of the 31 trips schiro had taken.
following a may 2 decision by the archuleta county board of county commissioners, voters countywide will now cast their ballots at one of three new vote centers, rather than the usual precinct polling places.
for whimsy, david edgar's "bluetail reef cruiser" and "goggle-eyed swallow tail," fish made from recycled plastic containers.
all dealers are required to include a readable photocopy of the svi to complete title transactions.
the dance is an over-21 event and id may be checked at the door.
students at tierra alta schools enjoy hands-on, active learning through projects and activities all year.
"the grant will enable our program to provide additional meals and transportation services to the young at heart senior citizens," said musetta wollenweber, director of senior services.
a catering kitchen is also available.
bruvel's work is highly skilled.
salida, buena vista and lake county will be there as well.
the issue receiving the most attention in last week's election was the  upper san juan health service district ballot issue a, which asked registered  voters if district debt should be increased by $12 million (with a repayment  cost of $33.5 million) to pay for construction of a new critical access  hospital (cah) in pagosa springs.
he loved to go out on his boat with his girls and fished for countless hours to bring home many trophy largemouth bass and channel catfish.
candidates take the mock test as well as a written exam.
the booklet, "a message to garcia," was written in 1899 by the  philosopher elbert hubbard.
in addition there were many local businesses who contributed with services and spreading the word.
what a great way to make that progressive dinner more fun, and safer.
as agreed, she and my sister flew down from seattle and met me at my home in albuquerque.
dates are changed every year according to federal migratory bird guidelines, which are published by the federal government in june and july.
burma shave - both hands on the wheel, both eyes on the road that's the skillful driver's code.
expectations for next year are high with several new students planning to join the tierra alta schools family in the fall.
the adult swans cross the roads to go to other lakes; the four young birds are old enough to fly but haven't been seen doing this yet.
the optional team had a small session as well, competing against only one other team.
they were accompanied by advisers christine  and nancy esterbrook.
come see the undiscovered talent in pagosa.
the pirate boys took second in the iml standings with 106 points, behind bayfield (137.67).
while my father taught me how to drink in cold mountain air and the beauty of a remote wilderness vista, my mother taught me how to drink strong black coffee - coffee the consistency of roofing tar or creosote - coffee with a kick.
each of these instructors brings years of experience and expertise in theatrical production and education to this program.
oh, by the way, the price of gasoline in venezuela is  currently less than 20 cents a gallon.
for mls tickets, call chimney rock interpretive association at 264-2287, beginning may 15.
"fishermen can walk to the river  and catch big fish, while their families shop local stores, and they can all  meet for lunch." don't disturb the swans
it sounds bizarre, but there's nothing  quite like a good nap in your favorite chair, book flopped on the floor and a  cold cup of coffee by your side, before you really hit the hay.
i top each with three slices of sharp cheddar and let the cheese melt.
- u.s. passport expired less than 10 years.
karaoke will be led by bill wood and son.
as part of colorado  trails day, the council announces volunteer trail work days june 3 and 4 to  work on sections of trail near monument park.
for example, a six-day naco conference held in march in washington d.c. counts as one trip, as does the present, multi-day sacramento conference.
carl van hess avoid "old" dear editor: joe and i want to thank you for publishing the news, with pictures (yeah)
shortstop robert montoya reached base on an error and salazar scored to put monte up 3-0.
in addition, the local fbla chapter received three awards in the  "state only" events: andersen received ninth place in job search and  the poster team of hayley goodman and julianna whipple each received fourth  place.
in  november, the second phase will make $2 million available, but the district  will not take possession until sometime in 2007, depending on need.
of course, while a lid and pid would satisfy county requirements and  alleviate the forest service of further responsibility of road ownership,  getting them approved by a majority vote remains the primary obstacle to a  final resolution.
the first time a bear gets into trouble, it receives an ear tag marking it as a  problem bear.
marketing technology the deadline for savings with early registration in pagosa springs arts council web and marketing classes is fast approaching - may 14.
" i have been told to hang onto "a message to garcia" for it will  probably be worth something one day.
for now, only a handful of the approximate 140 landowners up mill creek road live there year-round.
- department of revenue/state titles and registrations section, (303)  205-5608.
how vote centers work
tee-ball schedule the final games in our tee-ball season will take place saturday, may 13, in town park.
the humane society of pagosa springs is the only animal welfare  organization for dogs and cats in pagosa springs and archuleta county.
volunteers needed for each game.
after a leisurely drive north through the rio grande valley with stops in  santa fe, chimayo, and ranchos de taos, our first evening found us at a hotel  in taos proper.
by chuck mcguire staff writer the search for answers to the mill creek road winter access puzzle  continues.
although we shall miss him, we feel that his work on earth is finished and that he is now enjoying the sweet rest, joy and peace that jesus christ has prepared in heaven for all who love and serve him.
with the current draft incorporating changes brought forth during the  monday work session, the document includes basic design guidelines for  commercial structures, a voluntary scenic overlay program, eight zoning  districts and comprehensive oil and gas regulations.
since the movie was made in japan, it's obvious that it was not originally  in english, but disney and pixar studios have done a terrific job in re-dubbing  the whole film into english.
the danes feature a prolific scorer in wrendy rayhill, who has 26 goals and 20 assists this season.
- valid us military id (active duty, dependent, retired, reserve and national guard).
children's drumming class is held at the methodist church fellowship hall at 2 p.m. thursdays.
when i was growing up, i didn't realize or appreciate how much my mother did for me and how her care made it possible for me to make something of myself.
this club is not affiliated with, or endorsed by ebay inc. line dancing gerry potticary and her line dancing friends meet at 10:30 monday mornings.
when asked how the project determines the number and sizes of trout to  stock, cano explained that donors complete a form suggesting their preferences.
one halfwit keeps setting off a u-scan alarm because he fails to put his scanned items in the bag when ordered in english, at that.
maxwell asked sun readers to examine the photo accompanying this story and,  if they recognize the key ring, to call him at the pagosa springs police  department, 264-2131, ext. 241.
every tuesday, between noon and 3 p.m. card tables can be set up at the store entrance.
as with any small or large town humane society there have been many  accomplishments and goals have been achieved throughout the years.
girls' relay teams ended the meet with three firsts, a second and third.
the silent auction and general membership meeting will be held 5-7 p.m. saturday, june 3, at the pagosa springs community center.
third baseman jacob jaron hit a two-run walk-off home run in the bottom of the tenth inning to win it 10-8.
combined with that ceremony will be an awards night which will honor student  activities and accomplishments.
"life has been good to me, thanks be to god.
we also congratulate marion goodnight, in arboles.
it provides a conveniences to voters, there's no wrong place to vote," madrid said.
by press time, the sun was unable to confirm how many of the 31 trips  schiro had taken.
applications are currently being accepted from individuals as well as businesses, churches and other organizations that would like to make a difference.
but, with a day's rest, they'll be ready.
the camp is open to boys who will be in grades three through eight next school year.
go one block to  stagecoach, turn right, then turn left on shenandoah.
you know, the checkout line where the customer does all the work in order to allow the store to save on wages, and thus pass those savings on to customers?
the community center dances are a wonderful way to have an affordable  evening out on the town.
operating costs are covered through  sales at our thrift store, private donations, fund-raising events, grants from  private foundations and fees from the town and county for impounding services  provided.
register now for pretenders summer drama camp the pagosa pretenders are excited to announce their first summer drama camp.
however, upon further evaluation, viable options were reduced to two, including wells fargo and united missouri bank.
the office number is 731-3837, the fax number is 970 731-3879, cell number is 946-6648, and e-mail is afautheree@archuletacounty.org.
still offering popular movies at popular times, it looks like mark is still offering the half-price night until memorial day weekend.
for now, only a handful of the approximate 140 landowners up  mill creek road live there year-round.
the mother moaned as she held him tight, "poor helpless child, he's not to blame.
they refer to the shame a good man should feel at the thought he had broken a promise, and they remind us of the price so many have paid for the liberties and freedoms masons are pledged to protect.
proceeds from this show will be used to benefit community center programs and to defray operations costs.
in recent years, property owners have put pressure on the town and county to allocate more resources for animal control.
call musetta at 264-2167 for further information.
when my children were still at home, my life as a mother was very different from that of my own mother.
proof of ownership is required.
gabrielle pajak won her first competition of the year in the younger age division.
bow club to hold practice shoot the pagosa bow club will have the first tuesday practice shoot at 6 p.m. may 16 at the laverty range.
tuition is $5 per class and you may register by calling 731-3117.
"we are only offering an opportunity to view this event,"  said white.
future tentatively scheduled items include trips to durango, keystone, colo., a six-day naco conference in chicago and a "peak afterschool conference" regarding after-school learning at copper mountain resort.
the staff was directed to present the  issue for future consideration at the commission's july meeting.
if you have any type of etrex, the features are all quite similar.
the park fun staff, co-directed by becca blauert and heather hunts, will commence registration at town hall thursday, may 25, and friday, may 26, from 11 a.m.-5 p.m.
the office is open from 8 to 4, monday through friday.
he is the nephew of peggy laverty.
a state-of-the-art animal shelter will be an asset to our community and will provide a safe educational environment for the residents of archuleta county to visit or enjoy with their pets.
the manner in which the building was entered, with the exterior door kicked  in, leads officers to suspect a link with the burglary at the adobe building.
we will keep you posted with what special activity melissa bailey is planning for next month.
each session's information stands alone and sessions may be attended individually or as an entire series.
the fool is delusional and doesn't realize a critical truth: u-scan technology is infallible.
karl isberglegacies shari pierce 90 years ago taken from sun files of may 12, 1916 ed mowbray lost a valuable horse last week.
park events continue until 4 p.m., giving everyone just enough time to get to the community center.
wristbands are available at the chamber of  commerce and will be available saturday at the ticket booth at playin' in the  park.
" although county residents and staff came, schiro and her phone call did not.
" classes and their instructors are as follow: improvisation will be taught by jon bernard, a graduate of the pacific conservatory for the performing arts in californian bernard also studied the sanford meisner approach to acting for several years.
moonphase: waxing gibbous with 98 percent of the visible disk illuminated.
the entire stretch lies within national forest jurisdiction.
there will be age divisions for prizes.
if you don't already have an instrument, quality flutes are available for this weekly beginner's class.
newly infested galls (folded leaves) should be apparent within a week or so after spring releases.
there will be a reorganizational meeting for the spanish fiesta club on  wednesday, may 17, at the community center at 6:30 p.m.
if hazardous weather conditions prohibit our ascent to the viewing area, and this results in the cancellation of this program, we will make every effort to reschedule it for the following night, weather permitting."
"they played a couple 4-a teams," said kurt-mason of the danes, "and so did we.
the  patina is a gorgeous blue and the face is exquisite.
the enchanting sound of native  american flute reflects the solitude of earth, sky and the gift of nature.
gateway to imagination is on display through july 15, at the farmington  museum and visitor's center at gateway park, 3041 east main street, farmington,  n.m. (505) 599-1174.
joan was a member of dar.
her interest in abstract expressionism explains why chancey selected another pagosa springs artist - kathy steventon.
table reservations may be made at the community center for parties of 8-10.
the trick with land use codes is to encourage and reward excellence,  whether it is in development, in agriculture, or land preservation, while  protecting us all from bad neighbors and preserving some of our rural heritage.
goodman outlined the district's current financial status, which reflected $296,375 cash on hand at the end of march, and approval of a request for district manager pat haney to become a signatory on usjhsd expenditure checks up to $5,000 generated a lengthy exchange.
- never intentionally feed bears to attract them to your yard for viewing.
buy a giant hershey candy bar for a $20 donation and you will be entered  into a drawing that will be held may 16 at tierra alta's graduation and awards  night.
thank you to everyone who has attended these programs since they began in january.
if there's enough interest, we'll hold a town tournament in october.
the first two days of camp will feature former mesa state college basketball coach doug schakel, one of the premier shooting coaches in the western u.s.
2005 - court-order dog responsibility class for pet owners.
the traffic situation and the impact on existing roadways and intersections would be unacceptable.
we were productive citizens as health permitted.
this exciting marketing series is available to psac members and general public.
a golden heart stopped beating hard working hands to rest god broke our hearts to prove to us
newly emerged leaves on recently infested plants appear folded with thickened midribs.
stress affects the health of the animals and increases susceptibility to disease.
john, a member of pagosa first assembly of god church, will always be remembered for his love in working with children, and will be greatly missed by all his friends and family.
two pshs students headed to national competition thirty-two pagosa springs high school future business leaders of america  members traveled to vail april 22-25 to attend the fbla state leadership  conference where they competed with nearly 3,000 other fbla students from  across the state.
i whiz to the produce section and look for eggplant.
these proposed dates can be found on the dow web site and will be up for final consideration at the july commission meeting.
we would love to hear from you regarding suggestions for artsline.
the mariachi rio grande was awesome.
said the father at the end of the line, "i doubt that rascal's even mine!"community center news visit the community center, get involved by becky herman preview columnist how long has it been since you've been in the community center?
jerry had been battling lung cancer since 2004.
practice times and fields for pinto division will be available beginning monday, may 15.
you can feast at the alice in wonderland table prepared by cherlyn gwin, who also creates beautiful and functional tea pots, french presses and cup cozies.
while my father taught me to trust the strength of a well-tied knot, of good tackle and my instincts, my mother taught me to trust others.
leader april merrilee explains that the group meditation experience helps  in developing the ability to calm and center ourselves.
pagosa springs received a first-place chapter award for providing items on a "wish list" for children's hospital and advisor dorothy christine was recognized for her 15 years of service to colorado fbla and her impending retirement.
emerged from the misty hills of sleepy hollow,  n.y., and exploded upon the hudson valley music scene with their stunning  self-produced debut release, "a good thief tips his hat."
the ending as well has the  problem of resolving everything too quickly, leaving some significant things  left unsaid - such as whether or not sophie was indeed a witch (as in the  book).
they get their crude oil from venezuela, which is 23 miles away.
according to robbie schwartz, of the humane society of pagosa springs, the organization has received many calls regarding the swans that live at pinon lake at pagosa lodge.
if the home or business owner does not take action to remove the bear attractants (anything that smells like potential food), it is only a matter of time before the bear will return.
the umpire called a balk on richey, pitching in relief for pagosa, and the run was called off.
for more information call norm and freda whisman, 264-0038.
in addition to requiring seeing your secure and verifiable identification  (svi), effective june 1, 2006, the department of revenue requires with all new  and duplicate title applications, a photocopy of an svi to accompany the  paperwork to the state.
with vote centers, electors will cast their ballots at the nearest,  or most convenient, vote center location.
cash donations will be accepted at the auction.
at this point, even with the glaring failure of last season's temporary approach to solving access issues, the forest service remains committed to helping affected mill creek residents find equitable short- and long-term solutions to their winter woes.
camp contests will be held throughout the week.
" merchants who wish to be sponsors can contact the pro shop at the club.
the remainder of the camp will be staffed by pagosa springs high school boys' basketball coaches and players.
- joan vecchi, senior director, (303) 205-5935.
the first day will open with a hawaiian theme and bingo at town park.
i encourage everyone to read the code, ask questions, and suggest changes, as the next steps in the process begin and continue.
native american flute begins monday, may 15.
"life is what you make of it," added trujillo.
by larry lynch and john applegate special to the sun the pagosa area trails council is alive and well, even though we have not been in the news much this past year.
madrid explained that according to the hava act, each polling location is  required to have special voting equipment, called direct recording equipment  (dre), that can accommodate the needs of physically challenged electors or  electors, with virtually any disability.
"all programs will be unique," white said, and she suggested  those interested in tickets understand that, "there are many things to  consider in deciding which program is best for you: the phase of moon, the  moonrise time, and weather conditions one may encounter during various times of  the year.
once a bear learns  this association, it can become dangerous and often must be killed.
the trick with land use codes is to encourage and reward excellence, whether it is in development, in agriculture, or land preservation, while protecting us all from bad neighbors and preserving some of our rural heritage.
- a fashion show at the end of each day illustrating the theme "from  fleece to fashion.
they get their crude oil from venezuela,  which is 23 miles away.
the psac gallery in town park is on winter hours: tuesday and thursday, 11 a.m.-2 p.m.
it's true, my mother didn't teach me how to fish but she taught me respect,  curiosity, and instilled in me a sense of wonder about the world and the people  who live in it.
included in the program will be "jubilate," "american folk rhapsody" with soloist matthew brunson, "once upon a time" with soloist tiffany brunson, "america the beautiful," "poor wayfarin' stranger" with soloist larry baisdon, "do you feel the rhythm?," "i'm gonna sing" and "this little light of mine."
we would particularly like to thank all of our table captains for their  willingness to sponsor a table and ensure the success of our annual event:
trujillo had 15 siblings.
the association  uses the money for its own mule deer enhancement programs throughout the state.
2005 - hsps coordinated accepting 69 dogs and 35 cats from hurricane katrina areas.
there are two sessions (total of four days) offered.
here are some of the memorable burma shave signs: - trains don't wander all over the map 'cause nobody sits in the engineer's lap burma shave - she kissed the hairbrush by mistake
the overwhelming support, not only from the voters, but also from all the citizens who donated their time and money toward this cause is very heartwarming.
- tuesday, nov. 7, 4:45 p.m., a gibbous, yet more bulging, moonrise.
and as for the missing prince, when we learn of his whereabouts, we only know of what happened to him and not of who did it to him.
masonic use of the term "master" originated in the guilds of the middle ages when the person most skilled was called master, much masonic vocabulary dates from that period.
in doing so, they will have to post a bond, which protects the forest service from incurring significant costs related to subsequent road damage.
thursday, may 11, at noon, is a town council meeting.
she writes for several publications and is a preview columnist.
study group members and all interested members of the public are invited to attend the meetings.
in astronomical terms, sw3's passage is close, but it is not the only object in space on a near-earth trajectory.
in the intermediate group we will focus on e-mail attachments, your provider's options/settings, and e-mail problems such as privacy, spam and phishing.
they challenge other banks by believing they extend the best customer service skills in the area!
a person reading a cookbook had better know terms like fold,  cream the butter, or soft ball have special meanings, or he'll make a mess  instead of a cake.
bob must live in a very sheltered world.
here at the center we've been thinking that it might be fun to get some of pagosa springs' foodies together.
bridge lessons will be scheduled fridays as long as people are interested.
according to lynch and zaday, neither schiro nor any other commissioner has  been appointed to naco because lynch and zaday believe the county coffers  cannot weather the burden of the travel expenses.
hah, easy, child's play, in fact: 4825.
to date, there are more than 40 fragments zipping through space, the largest of which is
musetta is responsible for assessing the needs and strengths of senior citizens within our county and develops programs and service delivery plans to meet those needs within her program budget.
assignments for vendors' booths are being made on a first-come, first-served basis.
"the whole gist of it is that you want people to vote near where they work.
those who fail are sent back to the regular checkout lines.
donating artwork for our silent auction fund-raiser provides free exposure of your work to our community.
trujillo represents a generation whose heart beats true with a love of family and of country.
come out and help our community build a new early care and education center.
the impact on the adjacent neighborhood would have been dramatic, and harsh.
the plan was simple, i would act as tour guide and aside from two planned  activities, the goal was to venture north through santa fe, chama, taos, pagosa  springs and durango, with stops at as many espresso joints, quilting shops and  fishing holes as possible - she, and my sister, are avid and skilled quilters;  i am an avid fly fisherman; and me and my mother are coffee addicts.
the district is now in communication with architects (prochaska) and its  contractor, g.e. johnson, to ready plans for the commencement of construction  sometime next fall.
they will learn mion's step-by-step watercolor techniques.
the armistice was signed in 1953, but trujillo felt as though he had not given enough for this country that he loves, and just three months after his discharge, he reenlisted in the 11th airborne division, 503rd infantry regiment.
it will provide a voluntary  opportunity to get greater value out of your land by keeping it agricultural.
the farmers have been here for a very long time and in 2004 fiber  processing began with the establishment of the mountain high fiber ladies  mini-mill.
table reservations  may be made for parties of 8-10 at the community center.
- out-of-state issued photo driver's license or photo identification card  expired less than 1 year.
group and individual lessons are available.
as the temperatures warm and snow pack melts, nature provides and new  generation of tender young plants for bears to eat.
bindweed mites are available from collections of infested plant material.
the camp will run tuesday through saturday, may 30 -june 3.
landmark dates october 1983 - upper san juan humane society created.
this program is designed to complement health care provider services.
as the county of archuleta and the town of pagosa springs have grown, so has the population of the dogs and cats in the community.
be sure to come in. - o.s. galbreath jr., e.m. taylor, com.
will someone plan a  road through properties on south pagosa boulevard?
if someone wants to read the journal of the american medical association,  that is his right; but he doesn't have a right to complain that the articles  use medical terms.
the lines to the verses were spread among two or more signs and  people would read them as they rode along.
in  addition there were many local businesses who contributed with services and  spreading the word.
emilie schur was second in the 800, with a time of 2:25.88.
"the association appreciates the work done by the colorado division of  wildlife to improve mule deer herds throughout colorado," vita said.
the band has been featured recently in relix magazine, the new york times  and on the cbs hit show, joan of arcadia.
by jim pearson sun columnist who oversees the senior center in pagosa springs and what is its purpose in serving our community?
he came to the reservation in 1889.
anyone involved in the non-profit world will understand how this festival  depends on the effort and devotion of a few hardworking people, the support and  generosity of our community and an occasional grant.
why is the town going to pave almost one mile, as a "gesture  of good will," more of great west than first planned several years ago?
give me a call if you can provide transportation or need transportation.
drop-off is at 8 a.m. and pick-up is at 5 p.m.
the pretenders are producing this drama camp with money receive from an el pomar foundation award.
but, the argument pays no heed to the fact that not all backyards are the same.
a state-of-the-art  animal shelter will be an asset to our community and will provide a safe  educational environment for the residents of archuleta county to visit or enjoy  with their pets.
for  example, spouses cannot take ballots for their wives or husbands, however, an  individual can return a completed ballot on someone else's behalf.
at that point, it was clear we were truly of the same stock.
his last band, ragged  mountain, was active on the colorado club scene and festival circuit.
there are also activities set throughout the park that have fees associated with them.
i was proud of the fact that i could get in a couple hours of high-intensity parenting before i left for work; prouder still that, when i came home in the evening, i could count on at least three more similarly intense hours to follow.
oh, by the way, the price of gasoline in venezuela is currently less than 20 cents a gallon.
handicaps were deducted from each hole to determine the net winners.
school families gathered to view projects and share in a meal together.
get ready for more entertainment news soon, as we begin to talk about indiefest and all the activities planned for both bicycle tours this summer.
the den will have a special gift for all women who attend lunch on this special day in honor of all the love, support, strength and warmth they add to the world.
ticket price includes food and beverage.
with archuleta county's 10 voting  precincts, the act requires installation of 10 dres.
voice will be taught by darcy downing and will explore the actor's voice as  an instrument.
bloody oaths as to the allegedly "bloody oaths," the historic penalties  associated with the masonic obligations have their origins in the legal system  of medieval europe and were actual punishments inflicted by the state on  persons guilty of fighting for civil liberty and religious freedom.
he exited the military as a sergeant first class.
if you have visited our current shelter, it would not come as a surprise that our existing facility is outdated and we are out of space for future expansion.
we need to do something about folks flooding the u-scan line who have absolutely no right to be there.
students will develop their voices theatrically and musically  through the study of breathing techniques, articulation, projection and volume.
it is an argument in which one premise is true:
this folkloric style of belly dancing is a fantastic way to stay trim.
outdoors mule deer association makes donation by joe lewandowski special to the sun the colorado mule deer association has donated $9,000 to the colorado division of wildlife to aid mule deer habitat improvement.
written and directed by one of japan's most gifted and innovative  storytellers, hayao miyazaki, "howl's moving castle" continues to  prove that studio ghibli is one of the most extraordinary animation studios in  japan.
thanks to trujillo and others like him, future generations are free to dream the desires of their hearts.
this system will include a loop trail that follows martinez  canyon and stevens draw near the vista and trails subdivisions, as well as  connect to the other side of the canyon, providing access to the trails on  brockover mesa, turkey springs and chris mountain.
all entries must be for sale and psac will retain a 30-percent commission on all sales.
such was the case two weeks ago with the reaction of county government to a proposed, large-scale development: keep the speed down, take a gander at the possibilities and the probable consequences.
when someone other than a named owner chooses to complete a transaction for  the named owner, they will be required to provide a non-secure power of  attorney naming them as agent.
the colorado trappers association had  requested to add mink, marten, long- and short-tailed weasel, opossum,  ringtail, western spotted skunk, swift fox and gray fox to the list of small  game species.
the theme of the children's contest will be "why is water important?"
the following is a list of the three pagosa springs vote center locations: - archuleta county elections department, 449 san juan st. - on the backside and in the basement of the archuleta county courthouse.
in return, landowners agreed to supply a community lock for the gate and monitor its use, restricting access to all but authorized users and essential service providers.
according to robbie schwartz, of the humane society of pagosa springs, the  organization has received many calls regarding the swans that live at pinon  lake at pagosa lodge.
no previous experience required for this beginning hand drumming class.
the need there are many reasons why a new animal shelter must be built at a  different location: - the land on which the current animal shelter was built is less than an  acre.
it  can be done again with your help, if not there may be a chance it will be gone  and lost forever.
even if you can only make one or two work days, your help will be much appreciated and the reward will be an amazing trail we can all enjoy.
home and garden tour mark your calendars for sunday, july 9, and plan to attend the psac home and garden tour.
yet as earthy as their music seems, the circus has a spiritual  side - "talkin' to the buddha," "call to the mystic,"  "living with god" and "flapjacks from the sky" dance freely  between religious and philosophical mythologies.
the humane society of pagosa springs is the only animal welfare organization for dogs and cats in pagosa springs and archuleta county.
dates are june 27 through aug. 4 with a final "rewards party" on aug. 9.
"they had to lower the wagons on ropes down the steepest parts, and lead the horses on foot."
we hope to see you at our meeting on may 17.
this is a real leap forward  in medical care for our community that was started many years ago by  foresighted individuals and previous boards.
if you haven't visited lately, please stop by.
individual wristbands for the full day of activities are $25.
but, because the plan was ill conceived - too much, in too little space, with too much potential negative impact.
there  will be age divisions for prizes.
the program includes swimming, hiking, biking, wading, rollerblading, art and daily field trips.
the pirate basketball camp will be held may 22-25, in the pagosa springs junior high school gym.
her interest in abstract  expressionism explains why chancey selected another pagosa springs artist -  kathy steventon.
for proponents, the approval marked a new beginning for county land use, including institution of county-wide zoning; but for the plan's opponents, the approval marked the beginning of the end.
the first time a bear gets into trouble, it receives an ear tag marking it as a problem bear.
i don't regret for one moment the time i spent in the military."
his love for life took him on many journeys.
land use code approved, 2 key players absent by james robinson staff writer
always near the front, along the 38th parallel, trujillo battled in the punch bowl and on heartbreak ridge, as well as hill 351.
- people who are guided for hunting, fishing or wildlife viewing on colorado state wildlife areas by a professional outfitter or guide will remain required to purchase a wildlife habitat stamp.
she said ballots can be filled out and returned at the same time, or electors can take the ballot away and return it by election day.
for inclusion in artsline, send information to psac by e-mail (psac@centurytel.net).
as we all know, employment economies in archuleta are currently based primarily on tourism, construction and retail trade.
all the forms are compiled, then reconciled into a formula that reflects the  general consensus.
unfortunately, it lost to "wallace and  gromit: the curse of the were-rabbit" earlier this year.
each cost $150,000, but the fancy advertising failed.
with 10 successful four corners folk festivals behind them, the folkwest  board of directors decided it was time to create a new cultural opportunity in  southwest colorado and indiefest was born.
all artists and photographers selected for the calendar were local.
a memorial service celebrating his life, officiated by al de boer, will be held on friday, may 12, 2006, at 11 a.m. at restoration fellowship in pagosa springs.
friends have organized a may 27 benefit for zellner and invite everyone to bring donated items to be auctioned off.
the town and county are relying on the humane society to maintain a facility that can handle all impounded pets.
future tentatively scheduled items include trips to durango, keystone,  colo., a six-day naco conference in chicago and a "peak afterschool  conference" regarding after-school learning at copper mountain resort.
a background check will be completed on all applicants.
volunteers will each represent a country and display the traditional costume of that country.
bindweed can be successfully managed on some sites with fall applications of glyphosate containing herbicides.
i will be the presenter in this, a series of children's photolearn®' classes, held at the pagosa springs community center.
final canvassing by a three-member  election committee ratified candidate vote totals at 1,197, 1,190, 1,137, and  1,046 respectively.
naturally, all sides prefer a long-term solution, which would involve  upgrading the entire three miles to an all-weather standard (through a  cooperative effort) and turning jurisdiction and maintenance responsibilities  over to the county.
deadline for registration is june 1.
when you support the education center you support a family of important educational programs in our community.
and as for the missing  prince, when we learn of his whereabouts, we only know of what happened to him  and not of who did it to him.
this extreme arboreal excursion takes place in the "city in the trees."
he uses this framework to trace the polynesian civilization on easter island, the doomed medieval viking colony on greenland, and the formerly flourishing native american civilization of the anasazi and the maya.
it is her careful guidance, of knowing when to let go, of knowing when to be firm, of teaching by example not by lecture, that has shaped who i am today.
the pagosa springs community center is located at 451 hot springs blvd.
according to astronomers, a comet's nucleus is a porous, relatively fragile mix of dust and ice, that undergoes tremendous stress as it races through the universe.
mathematical formulas peeking through layers of  paint are.
(yes, srp is being held later than usual  this year.)
a big thank you is extended to all 34 of our 2006 luncheon sponsors who helped support our event; we couldn't have done it without you: david and carol brown, jack and katy threet, wells fargo bank, citizen's bank of pagosa springs, edward jones investments, kwuf, jann c. pitcher real estate, the pagosa springs sun, appraisal services, bank of colorado, bank of the san juans, circle t/ace hardware, declark granite and fabrication, elk meadows river resort llc, hart construction, hart's rocky mountain retreat, home again, pagosa brat, rio grande savings and loan, wolf creek rod works, aspen tree veterinary clinic, century 21/ wolf creek land, peggy cotton, first southwest bank, great divide title, harmony works organic café, old west press, paint connection plus, pagosa photography, pagosa veterinary clinic, ruby m. sisson memorial library, jim smith realty, the hideout and the tile store.
they are pretty much like us."
the commission will consider this issue again at its july meeting.
remember the  parade, the dance, the party in the park, the excitement that we once had?
entries will be accepted june 24-26, noon-4 p.m. at the arts and crafts room located in the pagosa springs community center.
in order to expedite our move, the board and the building committee have decided to proceed in phases.
we welcome back liberty theatre as a renewing member and mark as a new member to our chamber.
and while trusting others was key, most  importantly, she taught me to trust myself, because she did, when many probably  didn't.
if you would like to review a book and share it in this preview column, contact christine anderson, library director, at 264-2208.arts line get ready for summer auctions, shows by wen saunders preview columnist the pagosa springs arts council received hundreds of entries for the annual calendar.
applications are currently being accepted from individuals - as well as businesses, churches and other organizations - who would like to make a difference.
reservations are required, said white.
if it is, i have my mother to thank.
our goal is to attract crowds the size of the taos wool festival, estimated at 3-5,000 in 2005.
this canteen refreshment program became known as meals on wheels, and was the first organized nutrition program.
trujillo met another pagosa springs native while on the front lines in korea: "we were on hill 351," he said, " and north korea and china broke through the front lines.
pagosa springs arts council presents a series of four marketing workshops, "falling forward: web site marketing & logistics" (june 7) and the secret of your success: marketing your biz" (june 16).
barber was on the vice president's honor roll for academic excellence.
he and clorinda celebrate their 47th wedding anniversary this year.
medicare information in the senior center, 10 a.m.-3 p.m.; teen center open, 11 a.m.-4 p.m.; seeds of learning spaghetti dinner and concert, 5:30-8:30 p.m. may 14 - church of christ sunday service, 10 a.m.-noon; grace evangelical free church service, 10 a.m.-noon; volleyball, 4-6 p.m. may 15 - line dancing, 10-11:30 a.m.; senior walking program, 11:15-11:35 a.m.; games for fun, noon-4 p.m.; senior bridge, 12:30-4 p.m.; teen center open, 4-8 p.m. may 16 - psaar mls training, 9-11 a.m.; beginning computing skills, 10 a.m.-noon; senior walking program, 11:15-11:35 a.m.; teen center open, 4-8 p.m.; volleyball, 6-8 p.m.
there will be contests and giveaways, with lunch at the clubhouse.
the den is also accepting applications for substitute  drivers.
according  to the original agreement between the forest service and residents living  beyond road's end, access restrictions were intended to authorize residential  use, but not heavy construction traffic.
but where we  end up is still up to us.
ruby sisson library has this book.
two years ago, we decided a four corners road trip would be a good way to  spend time together while seeing the country.
time to join psac is a membership organization that helps ensure a flourishing and diverse community by enriching lives through the arts.
the groups view the water district's move to secure a 35,000-acre-foot reservoir, plus the right to divert 200 cubic feet per second from the san juan river east of pagosa springs to continually refill the reservoir, as essentially a water grab.
marissa maddox - queen; michelle garcia - princess; belle zellner - junior princess.
however, despite the poignancy of the event, those in opposition did not  stay for the revelry.
and, based  on the current condition of the district's emergency medical services fleet,  board members felt the need was more immediate.
u-scan idiots are getting in our way, making life difficult.
the municipal court shall consider the  following factors in determining whether any of the above-described property  constitutes 'junk': - whether or not a vehicle is currently licensed or has been licensed  during the past two years; - whether or not a vehicle is in good operating condition; - whether the property is an eyesore to the other people in the community  and whether it is aesthetically pleasing; - whether or not weeds are growing around or in the vehicle or property; - whether the property is stored or kept in a garage or enclosed building;  and - whether the property being used for the purpose for which is/was  originally made.
the matter will be presented in district court tomorrow when it is expected that the sale to mr. jackisch will be approved.
nephews michael raccuia, michael williams, jamie williams, and a niece, melanie richardson.
our  plans for the dinner and dance are currently being firmed up and details will  be printed in the preview the next few weeks.
in color photography, i loved  "fish wanting to fly," by jefferey jue, oakland, calif., a playful,  yet thought provoking and brilliantly executed photograph.
trujillo pitched another good inning for the pirates, allowing just one hit and regulation play ended with the score 5-5.
when the movie stops following the book and takes off on it's own adventure, i  wondered at times whether i was watching "howl's moving castle" or  "hayao's moving castle."
this will be the sixth year of the pagosa fiber festival.
i found myself disagreeing.
important documents those seeking a va benefit for the first time must submit a copy of their service discharge form (dd-214, dd-215, or for ww ii veterans, a wd form), which documents service dates and type of discharge, or give their full name, military service number, and branch and dates of service.
many do not even think they are veterans because they did not go overseas to fight in a war or conflict.
the bindweed mite, aceria malherbae, is a microscopic eriophyid mite imported from southern europe as a biological control agent for field bindweed.
by lynne bridges special to the preview seeds of learning's playin' in the park is saturday and there will be fun for the whole family.
"not everyone is going to agree with my choices," chancey said, but then added: "the prize winners are of such clear quality that anyone would have picked them." quality?
a moment later, she's back.
food for thought i scan, can you scan?
helping grow businesses and managing complex benefit packages is employee benefits of the southwest, run by margaret simon.
for example, a six-day naco conference held in march in washington d.c.
the new facility will also provide space for education  and training and be much more inviting to the public when they come to the  shelter to adopt a new pet.
there is often a considerable amount of work involved, and i want to thank them for their efforts and want them to know pagosa residents appreciate all their volunteerism.
i saute the onion, celery and pepper in extra virgin olive oil, seasoning with salt, pepper, oregano and basil and, when all is soft, in goes the garlic.
no one has the  right to drastically change the value of your property to benefit a developer's  pocket.
call  today, space is limited.
yoga in motion most of the exercises today mainly focus on the muscles, usually executed in jarring and abrupt motions that in the long run could cause injuries.
after i loaded up onto a truck, i saw someone i recognized.
table reservations may be made for parties of 8-10 at the community center.
having obtained voter approval for a new hospital, the district suddenly faced the enviable position of selecting from a list of lenders to borrow from.
we need a person interested in teaching the polka to adults, and the chicken dance to elementary-age children.
create a poster, leave it to be put on display and you will be entered in our contest.
all students competed in competitive and/or "state only" events, attended motivational workshops, and attended general assemblies, including listening to a national keynote speaker who sued magic tricks to relate leadership ides.
the complete list for license numbers for all game management units can be found at the colorado division of wildlife's (dow) web site: http://wildlife.state.co.us.
he gives the reader a five-point framework of possible contributing factors he considers intriguing to understand when considering why changes occurred or not.
all students competed in competitive and/or "state only" events,  attended motivational workshops, and attended general assemblies, including  listening to a national keynote speaker who sued magic tricks to relate  leadership ides.
we took an island tour on curacao, and i asked our driver what the price of gasoline was there.
june 3 - psac live and silent art auction, pagosa springs community center, 5 p.m. june 7 - psac "falling forward: web site logistics," 9:30 a.m.-noon.
.wear comfortable shoes for dancing.
the organization is a nonprofit, charitable tax-exempt corporation directed  by a board of elected volunteers.
while madrid said the machines are impressive in their ability to meet the  needs of disabled or physically challenged electors, they are also new,  utilizing relatively new technology and are, as of yet, unproven in a real  election scenario.
there are just too many participants to mention them all.
nevertheless, traffic related to three separate construction projects has continued since the original gate closure, and forest officials insist resulting road damage would have been severe under normal winter precipitation patterns.
colorado wildlife commission meets the colorado wildlife commission met may 4 in montrose.
by robbie schwartz special to the preview a group of volunteers lead by debra rinker-brown founded the humane society  of pagosa springs in 1983 and raised the funds to build and open the current  shelter may 3, 1986.
no task was too large or too small for him.
the burma shave signs are a good example.
good art represents an aesthetic resolution.
hip hop crash course rhonda la quey, our new teen center coordinator, tells us she recently saw jenny osmialowski, an exchange student from germany, at the key club talent show.
entry size is limited to 40x40, including mat and frame.
i agreed with her selection for best of show: "the passage" by  gil bruvel of wimberley, texas.
i will conduct these workshops.
" i have been told to hang onto "a message to garcia" for it will probably be worth something one day.
the june dance will be held friday, june 23, from 7-11 p.m.
"cherries under ice" did not fit in with her other top picks, which all expressed the idea that the past is always a part of one's present identity, ancestors travel with us as we move forward.
to sign up, call 731-4755, or visit the golf shop.
when your body moves, your bones and muscles move too.
to date in 2000, 11.25 acres was purchased in the cloman industrial park and paid for by two private donors.
throughout the years, trips into the wilderness have helped maintain my sanity, while coffee, on deadline days at the paper, and throughout college during test times, has helped keep another part of me sane, and if not sane, at least functioning.
in a letter to the editor published in the sun, schiro stated the current draft of the land use code was rife with "many unresolved, significant issues," and she implored county residents to attend monday's meeting, stating it was an "important topic that will affect all of archuleta county for years and perhaps generations to come.
our kids came to play and it was a real team effort."
share-a-ride don't forget to call or stop by my office with your va health care appointments for the share-a-ride (program.
the council also monitors the implementation of the  trails plan as new developments go through the approval process.
- m. michael cooke, executive director, (303) 866-3091.
the next meeting will be 10 a.m.-3 p.m. june 10 in the south conference room.
- certificate of naturalization with intact photo.
the privileges of membership include involvement in membership activities, involvement in the community, socializing and participating in the camaraderie of the arts, discounts on psac events and workshops, recognition in artsline and listing in psac artist guide and psac business guide.
the new facility will also provide space for education and training and be much more inviting to the public when they come to the shelter to adopt a new pet.
voice will be taught by darcy downing and will explore the actor's voice as an instrument.
learn about breath control, fingering, and how to play solo or with a group.
there's a couple of events where we'll have two pretty good contenders.
with the planning commission's approval, a revised set of county land use regulations, a zoning transition plan and a zoning map are well on their way to becoming official documents designed to guide growth, development and land use in archuleta county.
the diversity is needed "to improve  the number, quality and variety of jobs that are available to local  residents."
why should alpha/rock ridge metro district pay for more traffic on  their roads?
and through all the chaos and occasional strife, she rarely lost her cool.
may dance dance lovers ...
chimney rock archaeological area is located three miles south on colo. 151, which is 17 miles west of pagosa springs via u.s. 160.
summer plans the trustees and staff and i have decided on some summer landscaping and decor to make the entrance of the library welcoming while we are still thinking about final plans for the entire library grounds.
zesch was determined to know more about his ancestor and understand how a timid german boy such as adolph became so thoroughly indianized in such a short time.
the next beginning classes will start the first week of june and last through july.
final canvassing by a three-member election committee ratified candidate vote totals at 1,197, 1,190, 1,137, and 1,046 respectively.
children's birth certificates or adoption papers to determine children's benefits.
that is why i applaud the bocc and planning commission, not only for their incredibly hard work in creating and enacting the land use code, but also for including scenic and wildlife overlays and transfer of development rights (tdr) language in the code.
it will have to be done entirely through volunteer efforts.
this service is available to adults of all ages and will get you to and from your non-emergency medical appointments.
thanks - and happy mother's day.
albuquerque vamc phone number is (800) 465-8262.
we are planning several trail days this summer and we need volunteer help and involvement to make these trail improvements happen.
it's true my father instilled in me a passion for fishing, but my mother is largely to blame for everything else.
spring cleaning i have seen lots of roadside cleanup the past couple of weeks.
it was just terrible to see all the wounded, the soldiers begging for help and crying."
litter' means any scattered refuse or rubbish.
if a family purchases four wristbands for a total of $100, they receive a free eddie spaghetti cd.
this will create even more traffic at  160 and great west, as well as within the metro district.
on the last day of the camp, students will be able to share what they have learned with parents so, on that saturday, the time may be extended to accommodate activities.
there will be an autograph signing and tons of singing and fun.
the $50 fund-raiser ticket includes a pre-event talk, mesa-top ascent and descent, and a presentation at the viewing area, with complimentary light refreshments and an optional presentation afterwards.
"we've gone hard-easy this week," he said, expecting one last tough practice wednesday before giving his players a rest.
there is concern that dogs, other animals  or people will bother the adult swans and cause them to leave their nest.
the pirate won the high jump, equalling his personal best of 6 feet, 2 inches.
inez lobato-winter shelter anniversary, plans made for new facility
here are some of the worst.
he recommends "bear-proofing" your property by removing  items a bear might consider potential food sources such as bird feeders, pet  food left outside or unsecured trash cans.
each time we get together we will showcase a different food or course or ethnic cuisine.
i was surrounded, it seemed, by women who had surrendered themselves - and part of their sanity - to motherhood, women who pulled all-nighters hand-painting paper plates for a class party, who obsessed over the most minute details of play-group politics.
monologue and scene studies will hone acting skills such as memorization, characterization, dialogue and scene-blocking.
meetings will begin at 6:30 p.m. and end at 9 p.m. meetings will include maps and information for the entire planning area, with an emphasis on lands in the adjacent usfs ranger district and blm land.
as part of colorado trails day, the council announces volunteer trail work days june 3 and 4 to work on sections of trail near monument park.
it begins tuesday, may 30, continuing through saturday, june 3, for a  fun-filled week of dramatic instruction.
find out more on our new web site, elationarts.org hand drumming classes are forming now.
for additional information on the dances, contact me at 731-9670, mercy at 264-4152, pam stokes at 731-1284, or suzy bruce at 731-1211.
perhaps  immigration is on many artists' minds, or perhaps in the difficult challenge of  trying to rank diverse works of art, she grabbed at a theme and used it to  award prizes.
next week, we'll explore paganism, the meaning of light, salvation by works, universalism and racial exclusion.
the pirates played like a different team but still found themselves down 4-0 after four innings.
both are 2006 models mounted on ford 350  chassis, both are box-type construction, and each will require certain add-ons  to completely satisfy district needs.
phase one: construct at cloman property a 50x60 metal building that would  serve as a temporary shelter to house all incoming and adoptable animals.
the children's choir, under the direction of sue anderson, will perform several of their favorite selections at 1 p.m.
a mooncalf at terminal 3 is trying to stuff a twenty-dollar bill into the credit card slot.
this is one of the many  free activities offered that day in town park.
new class starts may 15.
hannah rohrich tied blue for fifth in the all-around and placed fourth on bars.
the inaugural event will take place june 10 and 11 on reservoir hill here  in pagosa springs.
the earmarks of the u-scan idiot?
this event will feature a parade of traditional costumes and tastes of food from different countries.
it is so comforting for my sister yvonne and i to know that my mother, elfriede, has such wonderful neighbors, since we live out of state.
there will be a tractor train ride sponsored by rotary, as well as a jump  house, balloon characters, paper hat decorating and games.
sophie falls head over heels for the young man, but she soon learns of the danger she's in, when the evil witch of the waste (voiced by lauren bacall, "birth") grows jealous of sophie's attraction to howl.
the adult men's basketball schedule concludes tonight at pagosa springs junior high school with the recreation league championship at 6 p.m. and the competitive league championship at 7:05 p.m.
april 1999 - name changed to humane society of pagosa springs, inc. 2000 - no animals will be euthanized for length of stay or space.
the music of slambovia has been described as "hillbilly-floyd,  folk-pop," "alt-country roots-rock" and "surreal  americana."
the more valuable the land is to the community, the greater the compensation should be.
meanwhile, by the next meeting (scheduled for 6 p.m., june 12 at the county extension building), county administrator bob campbell has promised to provide residents comprehensive information on how to achieve a vote, and how to structure improvement districts, should a vote ultimately be successful.
disc 2 of the special edition features the entire storyboard  version of the film.
the danes placed second in the tri peaks league, behind manitou springs.
this year our tour will concentrate on the u.s. 84 area, featuring homes and ranches between the intersection of u.s. 160 and u.s. 84 and alpine lakes.
first, we would like to extend our heartfelt thanks to all of our student  speakers for their willingness to share their experiences : brady ward  (archuleta county high school), jesika brule (archuleta county high school),  christina prunty (ged student), lizbeth coba and angela ibarra (english as  second language students).
the recruiter said, 'no way!'" said trujillo with patriotism shining in his eyes.
2006 - dedicated behavior help line established, 731-apet.
however, he will not  be able to return to work for up to three months.
if hazardous weather  conditions prohibit our ascent to the viewing area, and this results in the  cancellation of this program, we will make every effort to reschedule it for  the following night, weather permitting."
both districts would have to be approved by a majority of registered voters living in the concerned areas, and both could take on various forms, depending on exact community needs.
members of the choir have been invited to sing with  "music in the mountains" in durango this summer.
jody  cromwell, bob eggleston, first southwest bank, ed funk, ann graves, john  graves, mark horn, jeff laydon, lora laydon, bob lynch, jackie mcguire, curtis  miller, susan neder, jann c. pitcher, glenn raby, malcolm rodger, jack  rosenbaum, pagosa springs rotary, jerry sadler, lisa scott, james vincent and  sherry waner.
madrid said the decision to concentrate the vote centers in pagosa springs had much to due the with distribution and concentration of voters in the pagosa area, economics, the availability of grant funds and the county's responsibility to meet the 2002 help america vote act (hava) requirements.
hours: are monday to saturday, 8 a.m.-5 p.m. eca dance, music classes begin soon by carla roberts special to the preview elation center for the arts is offering many new weekly classes this spring and summer.
last but not least, we welcome back community volunteers extraordinaire, jim and jean carson.
children's  drumming class is held at the methodist church fellowship hall at 2 p.m.  thursdays.
moving over to the housing arena, we first welcome back david conrad and millennium renewables.
another good thing, as martha would say, is that a powered vent is being installed in our network closet.
if you regularly see a bear on your property, assess the situation by discovering what is attracting the bear and take steps to remove the attractant.
juror jill chancey, curator of the lauren rogers museum of art in laurel, miss., said of echterhoff's sculpture: "i like this because it is a floral, but it's scruffy.
burma shave no matter the price, no matter how new the best safety device in the car is you.
meetings will include maps and information for the entire planning area, with  an emphasis on lands in the adjacent usfs ranger district and blm land.
the town will not pick up household trash (this must be placed in the dumpsters), but will remove larger items such as old lumber or appliances.
senior services receives daniels grant archuleta county senior services announced last week it has received a $32,000 daniels fund grant to support the senior programs of archuleta county.
more details will be announced, so stay tuned.
i think this will work.
the booklet has to do with initiative and the story is an example of how a  message needs to be delivered and one man being recommended for this duty.
and a season came to an end.
if you have specific questions about how to do something, write them down and bring them with you.
he also won the triple jump in a personal-best performance, and posted yet another personal best in long jump.
there is still time left for those interested to get involved.
at the gate - armed guards.
they complain of "offensive" titles, such as "worshipful  master" for the leader of a lodge.
1997 - animal transfer program begins.
jarvis persuaded her mother's church in grafton, w.va., to celebrate mother's day on the second anniversary of her mother's death, the second sunday of may. jarvis and her supporters began to write to ministers, businessmen, and politicians in their quest to establish a national mother's day.
removal of junk vehicles can be coordinated by calling druex williams at town hall at 264-4151, ext.
we owe them a big thanks too.
however, days absent could exceed 31,  because trips are defined as any out- of-archuleta county-excursion, with a  one-day or multi-day trip both counted as one.
so he put his arms around her and whispered, "come with me.
registration is underway for the 2006-2007 school year.
veterans in prison and parolees must contact a va regional office to determine eligibility.
and in fact, many may be working around the clock with a variety of observational equipment, including the hubble and spitzer space telescopes and the arecibo and goldstone planetary radars to record the event.
clogging is a great way to develop your sense of rhythm and keep fit at the same time.
it really made a difference in my life," said trujillo.
staff explained that: the device offers a more humane  method of killing the animals than the use of poisons; and the device is  preferred by certified organic agricultural producers who are prohibited from  using certain chemicals on their lands.
lucky people will go home with new dinner settings and table decorations.
he  performed and recorded on the first string cheese incident and acoustic  junction releases.
if we cannot get a commitment by early next week, the leagues will be canceled and all registration fees for these divisions will be refunded.
white  said most of the available 2005 tickets were sold out by mid august.
as they get ready to participate in the grand reopening of the county airport, we welcome back avjet corporation and owner, mark foulkrod.
medicare prescription drugs we would like to thank all medicare and medicaid recipients who used our medicare prescription drug program services at the den to get enrolled with the insurance company that best fit their needs.
an analysis of the data collected by the program indicates the universe is abuzz with asteroids, comets, and other celestial debris, much of which occasionally passes close to our own planet.
but she always gave me room to roam, she let me discover, sometimes through hard knocks, who it is that i would ultimately become.
sophie decides to stay in the castle and serve as a new cleaning lady for howl, hoping to find out more about calcifer and howl's spell and to see if they can lift her curse.
this is happening with todd and doug shelton at rock ridge mobile home park where they wish to build houses.
the 4x400 relay team of patane, gill, mellette and mike smith was second, in 46.74.
the forest service and landowners favor this approach, and at thursday's meeting, commissioners ronnie zaday and robin schiro described what conditions would be necessary, before the county could fairly accept the road, including forming a local improvement district (lid) and a public improvement district (pid).
our plans for the dinner and dance are currently being firmed up and details will be printed in the preview the next few weeks.
the archuleta county education center would also like to say thank you to everyone who purchased tickets and attended our luncheon.
burma shave - speed was high - weather was not tires were thin - x marks the spot.
the improvements were subsequently  completed as promised, at an estimated cost of $27,000.
- korean war: june 27, 1950, through jan. 31, 1955.
after an early evening meal at orlando's, i convinced my mother  and sister to join me for an evening of flyfishing on the rio hondo just  outside of town.
"howl's moving castle" did not  earn miyazaki his second win.
observations of the shoemaker-levy 9 event indicated to astronomers that comet fragmentation is probably fairly routine due to the physical structure and chemical composition of a comet's nucleus.
survivors are jeri and her husband glenn shively with their daughter taylor, all from sarasota, florida; danielle and angela williams of pagosa springs, cleo gurule, a 27-year companion.
developers want a second entrance/exit for the project in the rock ridge area.
the following documents will be needed for claims processing related to a veteran's death: 1.
contact barbara witkowski at (264-4543 for information about workshops or e-mail workshops@pagosafiberfestival.com.
at the regional seeding meeting, it was obvious we have a lot of girls on the verge of making it.
researching family genealogy was a favorite hobby she shared with her husband and daughter.
first, we would like to extend our heartfelt thanks to all of our student speakers for their willingness to share their experiences : brady ward (archuleta county high school), jesika brule (archuleta county high school), christina prunty (ged student), lizbeth coba and angela ibarra (english as second language students).
neighbors: thank you all so much for the outpouring of love and support during this difficult time since my father, karl jaeger, died.
as seen in the accompanying photo, the key ring is  distinctive and could be easily identified and linked to the individual who  dropped it.
va benefits will not be provided to any veteran or dependent wanted for an outstanding felony warrant.
inez lobato-winter community newscommunity news shelter anniversary, plans made for new facility by robbie schwartz special to the preview a group of volunteers lead by debra rinker-brown founded the humane society of pagosa springs in 1983 and raised the funds to build and open the current shelter may 3, 1986.
tickets for the event are $300 for a table of eight and $75 for two.
bloody oaths as to the allegedly "bloody oaths," the historic penalties associated with the masonic obligations have their origins in the legal system of medieval europe and were actual punishments inflicted by the state on persons guilty of fighting for civil liberty and religious freedom.
meanwhile, earlier concerns  over the potential effects on stocking by the town's planned river improvements  have apparently dissolved, as those plans have encountered bureaucratic delays  that may push them into next year.
this fund-raising project, entitled the florida "family funraiser," includes airfare from albuquerque, resort accommodations, a rental car and three-day disney jump passes.
venezuela signed an agreement with curacao to provide crude oil, refine it on the island, and provide their gasoline supply.
september 2000 - two direct donations made for acquisition of cloman property, 11.25 acres for new shelter site.
while confidant he'll reach his goal, he admits to lagging behind at this point, although some of the program's top supporters have yet to remit promised allocations.
this is the theme for all the youth programs at sisson library this month, in conjunction with the ongoing pagosa reads!
there are places for developers to put large-scale housing projects, where they will work to the greatest good.
if you are interested in joining the choir, contact sue diffee at 731-1305 or pam spitler at 264-1952.
jerry will be buried at hilltop cemetery.
memorial gifts maybe made in ovie's honor to the alzheimer's association, 701 camino del rio, no. 319, durango, co 81301.
but the county is not yet there.
all applicants must provide their own vehicle and be available in one-hour  increments once a week.
the property is easily accessible via the  well-maintained cloman boulevard and is already tapped into municipal water and  sewer.
the silver foxes den senior center has an opportunity for you to make new friends while you donate one lunch hour per week to the home-delivered meal program for the community's senior citizens.
i love the competition; character comes out at this meet and it takes a lot of heart to do well.
when someone other than a named owner chooses to complete a transaction for the named owner, they will be required to provide a non-secure power of attorney naming them as agent.
as a result, more pets and strays are being impounded and, as a result of our  aggressive spay and neuter programs, the organization is struggling to keep up  with demand at our current location.
the society's purpose is to provide a safe haven for animals in need, promote adoptions, reunite lost animals with their owners and to humanely reduce pet overpopulation through community education and aggressive spay and neuter programs.
junior kim fulmer nailed two second-place finishes at the meet.
the card must be filled out and brought, along with a valid form  of identification, to the election center on election day - the primary is on  aug 8 and the general election is nov. 7.
please come to the den for lunch and help us say "thank you" for all they do.
a percentage  of that goes directly to the town and county coffers as sales tax revenues.
it was a favorite of the children and grandchildren during the summer, but otis and joan lived there full-time until the '90s when they left for a lower climate for health reasons.
playin' in the park takes place saturday
last week, we began reporting from a book titled, "the jicarilla apache tribe, a history, 1846-1970," by veronica e. velarde tiller, an apache ph.d. dr. tiller, i understand, operates a financial consulting company.
for more information, call susan at 259-1672.
you bring your goods to the stand, titillate the machine, choose to hear a digitized voice deliver instructions in either english or espanol ( the spanish speaker is extremely friendly), scan in your items using, if you must, handy and vivid graphic displays of various fruits and vegetables to find codes for items without a bar code on them.
with time to iron out details before next winter, mill creek road residents  are, nonetheless, facing stiff challenges.
" more than that, she deemed work to be most successful that expressed the  idea of the past as part of one's present identity, of ancestor's traveling  with us as we move forward.
the mylar provides a vitreous quality to the opaque areas of paint, which contrasts with the crisp, fine lines of organic forms that look like the veins of leaves.
i mash five cloves of garlic and mince the remains.
this dance will  be a combination fund-raiser for the community center monthly dance program and  a fun event to kick off the bike tour of colorado which begins the next day.
the turnout for a special district election was very healthy; and i was impressed at the number of people who waited in line; and also those who came back after seeing the long line to make sure that their voice was heard.
his music has taken him across the continent a dozen times, and twice around europe.
for the first few weeks following hibernation, bears drink lots of water, helping their digestive system adjust.
i hope i can set the record straight on who is a veteran and the eligibility requirement for most basic va benefits and claims.
- our savior lutheran church, 56 meadows dr. at the intersection of west u.s. 160 and meadows drive.
his father, carl peyton, proceeded him in death.
"they have a very good team," said pirate coach lindsey kurt-mason, "and so do we."
trip costs are kept at a minimum to allow everybody a chance to participate.
there will be units provided to learn on but if you have your own gps, bring it.
she also meets and befriends markl (voiced by josh hutcherson, "zathura"), a young wizard in training and apprentice to howl.
park fun has a home base at pagosa springs junior high school.
according to campbell, schiro had left town to attend the national  association of counties (naco) western interstate region conference in  sacramento, calif.
due to limited viewing capacity, only 24 tickets were offered for each event.
the council also monitors the implementation of the trails plan as new developments go through the approval process.
if they are recording from a copy of the document, they cannot certify its originality.
he senses the curse cast upon sophie and agrees to help her break it if she can find a way to help him break a spell that binds him and howl together.
the chimney rock web site, www.chimneyrockco.org,  provides details on both the major lunar standstill program and the full moon  program.
past judging experience is helpful.
i know that the board, their committees and all the volunteers will now do  everything possible to ensure that your trust is rewarded by building and  operating the best hospital a small town can have.
as chancey said of bruvel's work: "he has such a unique vision.
the opening reception for the show is 5-7 p.m. thursday, june 29, at the gallery in town park.
applications are currently being accepted from individuals - as well as  businesses, churches and other organizations - who would like to make a  difference.
new events this year include two competitions: one in fiber arts and the other in hand-spun yarns.
register now for pretenders summer drama camp the pagosa pretenders are excited to announce their first summer drama  camp.
the gateway show is an interesting collection of work from 85 artists in 28  states.
there will be a cash bar with assorted beers, wines and soft drinks for a nominal charge.
i love you and will miss you forever, trishengagement bill and nancy esterbrook of pagosa springs are proud to announce the engagement of their daughter, janae esterbrook, to brad ash, son of larry and rhonda ash, also of pagosa springs.
rehearsals for the christmas  concert will begin in early september.
the storyboard and some of the dishes and decorations are on display in the exhibit case at the front of the library.
the region 9 report-2003 tells us that "economic diversification is a  high priority for the region."
the fiber festival meets that need by supporting the efforts of a growing cottage industry involved in fiber-related businesses.
if you didn't go to the sunday concert, you really missed a chance to hear some romantic, lively, soul-gripping music.
if new federal regulations occur after the july  meeting, the commission may modify its regulations in august.
the access restrictions pertain to a three-mile stretch of road beginning at the san juan national forest boundary approximately four miles from the intersection of mill creek road and u.s. 84, and continuing into the high west unit 11, mill creek ranch, rito blanco ranch and cimarrona subdivisions.
we try to avoid saying the word, "old..." before anything else, including the most beautiful scenery one could hope for, are the people of pagosa which kept us there for nearly 18 years.
marley gabel was seventh in the all-around and megan davey placed tenth.
the interest in  spinning, weaving, knitting, etc. is already here, and is growing by leaps and  bounds.
by 1911, mother's day was celebrated in almost every state.
i agreed with her selection for best of show: "the passage" by gil bruvel of wimberley, texas.
the commission will consider this issue  again at its july meeting.
her passion for reading, exhibited streamside, is something i have inherited, and although i spent that evening on the rio hondo fishing, i have spent countless evenings, like her, nose buried in a book.
archuleta county clerk and recorder june madrid said part of the push for vote centers is built on the premise of creating greater convenience for voters.
- fiber artists selling a variety of outstanding handmade textiles and  articles of clothing.
learn american folk styles and creative  techniques.
"all programs will be unique," white said, and she suggested those interested in tickets understand that, "there are many things to consider in deciding which program is best for you: the phase of moon, the moonrise time, and weather conditions one may encounter during various times of the year.
future trailhead parking areas are included in the project providing four  different parking and trail access locations complete with informational signs.
they sell and install dual-pane, energy-efficient windows and patio doors.
the choice ultimately came down to four different institutions, which all offered attractive rates.
in a meeting lasting nearly two hours, the assembly gathered at the county  extension building, where forest representatives described shortcomings  associated with snowplowing and gate management agreements, which led to  unauthorized road use and significant off-road resource damage, following a  mandatory gate closure.
the service begins at 10:30 a.m. in the pagosah unitarian universalist fellowship hall, unit 15, greenbriar plaza.
the book was, "the man  without a country," written by edward everett hale in 1863, and the other,  "a message to garcia," a 15-page booklet written by elbert hubbard.
the features  include the original japanese trailers.
for these events, you can purchase a family pack of tickets for four for the whole day and evening at the chamber, for $100.
their impact in sprinkler irrigated settings, especially lawns, will probably be less than in nonirrigated sites.
we live in an area surrounded by stunning natural beauty.
each student is being encouraged to grow a garden this summer as a  family activity.
at regionals, the top three in each event go to state (as well as those who have posted qualifying times earlier in the season).
"and i think defense will be a key in this game.
as the temperatures warm and snow pack melts, nature provides and new generation of tender young plants for bears to eat.
workshops and exhibits are sponsored by psac to benefit the art community.
a salad with the greens (4825), some sliced tomato and oil cured olives - a lemon vinaigrette with crumbled feta - and the deed is done.
remember the parade, the dance, the party in the park, the excitement that we once had?
the town will not pick up household trash (this must be placed in the  dumpsters), but will remove larger items such as old lumber or appliances.
please consider helping.
trujillo was placed in a special platoon that was given the task of testing equipment, such as sleeping bags, in alaska.
remember, the town cannot remove or pick up hazardous materials and motors, and freon must be removed from all refrigerators prior to pickup.
tierra alta schools plans fund-raiser, graduation, school trip by dan loper special to the preview tierra alta schools is giving away a week-long vacation for four to orlando, florida.
we rely on all of our volunteers to keep wonderful things happening here.
work continues on mill creek road dilemma
her passion for reading, exhibited streamside, is something i have  inherited, and although i spent that evening on the rio hondo fishing, i have  spent countless evenings, like her, nose buried in a book.
right away dempsey wrote me that he had seen the commissioner and that no one would be appointed superintendent here who did not meet with my approval.
one of his sayings was, "folks who never get paid for any more than they do.
once received by the county, madrid said registered electors can come to the county clerk's office to pick up a ballot.
the hosts showed their hard hitting again in the bottom of the eighth.
we are looking for individuals, families or groups to sponsor trees which will be decorated and displayed for a week at the center; the trees will be displayed for the public.
the council was instrumental in the development of the archuleta  county/town of pagosa springs master trails plan that was adopted in 2003.
i've never seen anything like this and the execution is  excellent.
- world war ii: dec. 7, 1941, through dec. 31, 1946.
a response to critics of freemasonry by bob case special to the sun most of the issues surrounding freemasonry deal with language, in one way  or another.
we are so grateful for all of the help you give us, harold.
- the overcrowding of the pets at the shelter causes excessive noise and high stress on the animals.
the patina is a gorgeous blue and the face is exquisite.
future goals 2006-2007 - phase one of new humane society shelter project.
once they are ready to eat again, they  become relentless in their search for food.
recently, the students participated in the invention  convention which generated great interest in technology, safety, creativity and  marketing.
" bruvel's other sculpture, "mask of whispers" is a stainless steel  female head, bound with other faces cut out and protruding from windows in the  forehead and cheek.
currently, there are 396 registered electors in the arboles area, and madrid said after analyzing voter numbers and historic voter turnout she concluded it was not economically feasible to put a vote center in arboles and she opted to concentrate vote centers in the pagosa springs area.
highlights: deer populations continues to rise and the  number of licenses available overall will increase slightly; elk populations  are stable and at objective, consequently cow licenses will be reduced by about  10 percent (there are no limits on bull licenses in most of the state);  pronghorn populations are rebounding from drought years early in the decade and  doe licenses will be increased by 33 percent, buck license numbers will remain  stable; moose populations are growing slowly and 185 licenses will be available  statewide for 2006, up from 159 licenses in 2005; bears continue to struggle in  many areas of the state, so the number of licenses will be reduced by 9 percent  to 2,540.
our mini-van is unable to accommodate wheelchairs.
this will create even more traffic at 160 and great west, as well as within the metro district.
your seniors inc. membership entitles you to a variety of great discounts from participating merchants in our area, plus you'll get senior activity discounts.
i have personally been to every meeting, and the process has been  very transparent and responsive to input.
the protected overwintering site allows them to survive extreme winter conditions, and they have successfully overwintered in the harsh environments of canada and montana.
june 1995 - thrift store moves to 180 south 6th st. 1995 - initiation of spay/neuter programs for all adopted animals and for  the public's animals.
adam trujillo was on the mound and john hoffman behind the plate.
this is an important book, highly recommended by dr. andrew gulliford, professor of southwest studies at fort lewis college.
josh hoffman, leading off in the seventh, doubled to left for the black and gold.
get out of the ordinary dinner and fund-raising mode; come out for an evening of frolic and festivities while benefiting the seeds of learning center.
archuleta county's growth is a lot like riding that sled.
new class starts may 17.
she shuffles to the cashier stand with an item clutched in her limp paw, whining about the darned code.
i miss the essential first half of house hunters, and my day is nearly ruined.
flyers/registration forms are available in each public school office and the sisson library.
here are some of the memorable burma shave signs: - trains don't wander
"it's unanimous, we have an adoption," garcia said, before  dropping the gavel and adjourning monday's joint, planning commission and board  of county commissioner's public hearing and work session.
in certain circumstances, the following identification documents may also  be acceptable for purposes of processing an application for a certificate of  title and/or registration, although it is strongly recommended that a photo  identification card from the list above be required.
if there was bear activity in your neighborhood last year, you'll need to be extra careful this year, as bears will return to the same locations where they have been successful finding food in the past.
any dd 214 with the  disclaimer "not to be used for identification" is not acceptable.
sounds like fun doesn't it?
learn american folk styles and creative techniques.
students should bring a bag lunch (drinks available through the community center's vending machines).
in memoriamin memoriam lauren white lauren, you made the stars dance, the valleys echo and the sun smile.
," said drew peternell, an attorney for trout unlimited.
employee benefits of the southwest wants to help your business manage the ever-increasing demand for employee benefits.
i suppose, given the name of the show, "gateway to  imagination," i was hoping for more works that challenged existing  concepts and ideas, for works that pushed the boundaries.
neither lynch nor zaday were aware that schiro serves on a naco agriculture  committee.
changes increase the cost and length of the project."
prior to  the dance, there will be a catered fajitas buffet with all the trimmings.
it was written for the americans of that day (it was civil war time), and later used as a reading book in schools, where it was used to inspire leadership.
"we are only offering an opportunity to view this event," said white.
for more information on the pagosa quality fishing project, call thadeus cano at 264-2370.
we are limited to 80 participants and the slots are going fast.
according to thadeus cano, acting coordinator of the pagosa quality fishing  project (pqfp), the annual supplemental river stocking through town will again  take place some time between now and july 1.
rehearsals for the christmas concert will begin in early september.
since the movie was made in japan, it's obvious that it was not originally in english, but disney and pixar studios have done a terrific job in re-dubbing the whole film into english.
they are ancient but there  is nothing bad in that.
my  grandfather lived in the pagosa springs area until he was about 15 years old,  at which time the family moved to texas looking for work.
the only requirements are a love of singing, carrying a tune and a dedication to weekly rehearsals.
many residents of britain lost their homes and their ability to cook meals for themselves and their families.
games for fun we invite all those who love to be indoors and/or play games.
the new land use code is how we will steer toward our future.
2005 - hsps coordinated accepting 69 dogs and 35 cats from hurricane  katrina areas.
the story is a  little offbeat and tends to get confusing at times.
despite three days of testimony and a judge's pending decision, the pagosa  area water and sanitation district board of directors nearly averted mention of  its dry gulch reservoir litigation tuesday.
how does the town planning and council approve developers' plans when the  property is in the county?
i often encounter veterans who do not know anything about the va benefits for which they might be eligible.
mion offers individual attention, assistance, and a lot of fun in his well attended workshops.
community planning committees have  produced a comprehensive plan in an attempt to insure that pagosa springs does  not lose its quaint and rural aspect - that quality many of us came here for  and that quality that continues to bring tourists to our area.
as we were entering the american airlines terminal to fly home, i saw  senator john kerry get into a stretch limo, which probably gets five miles per  gallon.
musetta also submits news articles of senior interest, and conducts public presentations on such topics as the medicare prescription drug program.
they put signs up in fields along the  highways.
he believes runoff will have come and gone by then, and the fish will have time to settle in to their new surroundings before the height of 2006 tourism, which should be the week of july 4.
trujillo continues to keep in touch with men who served with him in the 11th airborne division, and his commitment to the united states remains as strong as when it first led him into active duty.
he performed and recorded on the first string cheese incident and acoustic junction releases.
but it's hard to play.
this should prevent the overheating problems we've been having in there.
the ending as well has the problem of resolving everything too quickly, leaving some significant things left unsaid - such as whether or not sophie was indeed a witch (as in the book).
jackson, in turn, contacted mike reid of the colorado division wildlife.
even as the program enters its fourth year, it remains completely dependent  on the generous contributions of a long list of pagosa area citizens, merchants  and financial institutions, who have supported it to the benefit of local  tourism.
kate terry is a longtime pagosa resident and has been a loyal volunteer at the local library for more than 30 years.
stress affects the health of the animals and  increases susceptibility to disease.
just prior to adjournment, when pressed for a quick comment on the reservoir matter, district manager carrie campbell said, "we had three days of court testimony, each side presented its case, and the judge will render a decision within a month.
also, county clerks' offices nationwide will record the document free of charge.
" "lack of something like this was brought our attention early last fall," says pretenders secretary sean downing.
" more next week on emmet wirt, trader to the jicarilla apaches.
it evolved  into the pagosa springs community choir, a non-profit organization which  provides two free performances each year.
but this was a straightforward drawing of cherries covered in ice.
for crying out loud, people, can't you read the sign?
almost every organization has a special vocabulary of words which are  understood by the group.
schwartz said she contacted pat jackson of st. francis bird sanctuary.
keep our community beautiful by participating in clean-up week in all its various forms.
biz beat ron etz, and his wife, linda, own and operate country hearth and home at 301 n. pagosa blvd., b-6, in the greenbriar plaza.
it was a trip, and a  morning, i remember fondly to this day.
"the u.s. is a nation full of immigrants and  their descendants; several artist refer explicitly to their immigrant heritage,  while other draw on native heritage," chancey wrote in her statement.
director sue anderson, a 20-plus-year choral director veteran, is no stranger to superior ratings for her choirs and ensembles.
we celebrate that life.
they were accompanied by advisers christine and nancy esterbrook.
in the end,  united missouri bank got the nod, largely because of its low rate and extensive  experience in lending to health care facilities.
pagosa springs fbla received the peak iii chapter  achievement award completed by and accepted by emilie schur.
" saturday's regional meet at bayfield will be a proving ground for many of the pirates.
the first burglary was reported april 29.
call 264-4152, ext. 21, to reserve your spot.
if this is an activity you think might interest you, but you don't know how to play, sign up by calling the den.
plenty of them around, mark my word.
tickets are $5 and are  available at the center and at wolftracks.
sigi rodriquez, on the mound for monte, was throwing a no-hitter and had pagosa baffled at the plate until the top of the fifth inning when they finally came up with two runs.
the staff also recommends the wildlife  commission consider allowing a shooting season on all prairie dog species  outside of the closure period, including black-tailed prairie dogs which are  found primarily on the eastern plains.
they are lessons that guide me through the day.
clean trash cans with ammonia or bleach occasionally to reduce odors that attract bears.
she also promotes senior programs and events through marketing, promotional, and public relations efforts, which includes developing brochures and publishing event calendars and newsletters.
you will share experiences with others, providing you the opportunity to help and learn from people like yourself.
class size is limited to 20 participants, so call the den for registration and further information at 264-2167.
this book was the winner of the tcu-texas book award for the best book on texas.
new class starts  may 17.
the youth part of the contest is to design and submit a poster based on the  theme, "why is water important?" preschoolers through elementary school students are invited to the library  friday, may 19 at any time to work on posters.
john romero jr. john romero jr., "little john," age 48, passed away friday, april 21, 2006.
if we are going to  tell landowners that their land is important to the rest of us by putting them  in a scenic or wildlife overlay district, then we should back that up by giving  them more value for their land.
call rhonda at 264-4152, ext.
barb will share the book, "common ground," by molly bang, as part of the pagosa reads program.
judges selecting the calendar images were carly delong, artist and illustrator with studio abuzz (durango) and mary jo coulehan, executive director of the pagosa springs chamber of commerce.
across from the post office, give any of their staff or officers a call at 264-1818.
for instance, "worshipful" is a  term still used today.
in your short time on this earth, you brought joy and laughter to the world around you.
a mystery trip is a secret, but we can give you a clue: this will be a ride you will not soon forget.
the following is a list of the three pagosa springs vote center locations: - archuleta county elections department, 449 san juan st. - on the backside  and in the basement of the archuleta county courthouse.
the exterior looks like a  massive heap of scrap metal and steam pipes walking around on four legs, while  the interior resembles a simple two-story house.
the restrictions would be imposed to prevent shed collectors from harassing wildlife during the most severe months of the winter.
we need men, women, and children to participate.
according to cano, that amount allowed the stocking of 159 pounds of 10- to  12-pound cutbows, 502 pounds of three- to five-pound rainbows, 450 pounds of  14- to 18-inch rainbows, and 200 pounds of 11- to 14-inch rainbows.
sophie falls head over heels for the young man, but she soon learns of the  danger she's in, when the evil witch of the waste (voiced by lauren bacall,  "birth") grows jealous of sophie's attraction to howl.
may 17 - beginning computing skills for seniors, 10 a.m.-noon; wednesday bridge club, 10 a.m.-3 p.m.; watercolor club, 10 a.m.-3:30 p.m.; preschool play group, 10 a.m.-12 noon; teen center open, 4-8 p.m.; weight watchers, 4:45-6:45 p.m.; volleyball, 6-8 p.m.; church of christ bible study, 7-8 p.m.
students may attend two or four days, with budget pricing for those attending all four days.
the pagosa area trails council depends on community volunteers to get the  job done.
i thought it would be a wonderful surprise for his birthday if a few  people from the pagosa springs area would send him a postcard from colorado for  his birthday.
it is never too late to join in!
if you are eligible for the program, but have not enrolled yet or need additional information, contact musetta at the den, 264-2167.
cano hopes donations will arrive soon, to allow stocking by mid-june.
no one  likes the high price of gasoline, but we're getting exactly what we asked for,  and it's not all george's fault.
the new overlay/tdr program has few restrictions or "hoops" to get through.
please come to the lodge open house, 3-5 p.m., may 20, 227 lewis st., for answers to your questions.
calendar all psac classes and workshops are held in the arts and craft space at the community center, unless otherwise noted.
according to peak conference documents, "the peak afterschool conference provides a forum for practitioners, program directors, community partners, and leaders in the field of out-of-school time to network and learn through high quality professional development experiences."
it shouldn't have come to that.
a meeting is set for may 23 in pagosa springs at the pagosa junior high school library, with focus on the pagosa ranger district and blm lands.
american ideal at first baptist church the american idol craze has swept the nation and landed in pagosa.
in his very readable style, diamond spells out what happens when we squander our resources and he tells us what other cultures are doing to prevent failure.
thus it is we applaud the april 18 decision by the county commission to, in effect, put the brakes on a proposed "low-income" or "affordable" housing project on piedra road.
yea, their colleague.
i hold a b.f.a. from virginia commonwealth university in communications arts and design and i have spoken numerous times at professional photography conventions and was featured as the one of 12 wedding photographers in wedding 2000, a live video cast program in 1998.
come out and help our community build a  new early care and education center.
we did not realize there was a conflict with the humane society auction when we previously settled on the august dates.
first, there's the pinhead who ignores the 15 item or less rule.
"our new oil and gas regs will probably be the best," alvord said.
we both sincerely appreciate you all, as i am sure my mother does too.
they were to pave only in front of rock ridge commercial.
for more information contact psac at 264-5020, unless otherwise noted.
though the colorado division of wildlife permits the annual project, it is  considered supplementary, because it is not part of the official dow stocking  program conducted each year.
"rising on a nearly pitch-black backdrop, the moon was a stark contrast to  the rock silhouettes, and everyone was ooohing and aaahing.
but as i walked around  viewing the work, considering what chancey told me about her selection process.
naturally, all sides prefer a long-term solution, which would involve upgrading the entire three miles to an all-weather standard (through a cooperative effort) and turning jurisdiction and maintenance responsibilities over to the county.
wartime service certain va benefits require do require wartime service.
the community will benefit as the festival grows and the festival needs community support to grow.
job responsibility is simple: just come forward and be the leader of the game you're interested most.
this class is open to adults and will be limited to the first 16 persons (no exceptions).
each machine costs roughly $12,000 with associated software and set-up costs.
the daniels fund operates the daniels scholarship program and the daniels grants program in colorado, new mexico, utah and wyoming.
giorgio's work is a digital print while day's work is a palladium print.
it is appropriate, then, that our community understands how the festival is good for pagosa.
meanwhile, usjhsd has been searching for a new ambulance and at tuesday's meeting, choices were narrowed to two.
michael whiting help with fiesta dear editor: on behalf of the spanish fiesta club we would like to thank everyone who attended our dinner and dance on friday, cinco de mayo, the piñata party on saturday and the mariachis on sunday.
the two-day session fee is $145 (psac members $125).
she won vault, bars and beam and placed fourth on floor.
additional information is also available on our web site,  www.archuletacountyeducationcenter.com.
it amazes me how americans gripe about paying  $3 a gallon for gasoline while they drink their $4 bottled water, which  probably comes from a well in tennessee.
club pro and manager alan schutz said, "this has become an annual event we all look forward to.
after the monday session there will be a potluck for all who participate in the class.
bcd or dishonorable dishonorable or bad conduct discharges issued by general courts-martial may bar va benefits.
attendees will explore color guide, various watercolor techniques, and mixing colors.
now for our other renewals.
architectural plans we enlisted the architectural services of animal arts to design a state-of-the art shelter.
families will also be entertained by a clown with bubbles and storybook characters with cookies for all.
once a road is put in, they will want to connect the dots with other roads and keep tearing away at open spaces.
developers want a second entrance/exit for the project in the rock  ridge area.
toni stoll placed second in the all-around, first on vault and floor, second on bars and third on beam.
secure and verifiable identification (svi) as defined by the department of  revenue is: - any colorado driver's license or colorado identification card expired  less than 1 year.
for more information about the silver foxes den senior center, call  264-2167 or visit www.archuletacounty.org.
town clean-up week may 15-19 to assist citizens in cleaning up the community, the town and other entities will undertake the following during clean-up week, may 15-19: 1).
letters pay the fiddler dear editor: i couldn't help laughing at bob dungan's letter about king george.
whether you are a person working to keep your ranch operating, or see that same ranch as an incredibly beautiful view, or you are an elk hunter, fly fisher, or want clean drinking water for your kids, everyone benefits when the land stays open and productive.
while the roots of her training lie in classical music, she understands and enjoys experimenting with voice, writing music and encouraging others to sing and speak loudly.
learn to move with grace and poise in beginning middle eastern dance, and find out why this dance form is so fun and popular today.
senior of the week we congratulate jerry la quey as our senior of the week.
veteran's death certificate if the veteran did not die in a va health care facility.
kids' photo camp parents are always searching for creative summer camp options for their children.
we  plan to meet at 9 a.m. at the vista clubhouse then drive to the trail access  point and walk into the canyon.
feel free to just show up.
please let us know if you can contribute costumes, your time, or your expertise in other areas, such as decorating or distributing tickets or flyers.
according to the convention schedule posted on the national association of counties web site, the convention does not officially start until may 10, although the conference does offer an optional may 9 agriculture/rural affairs field trip.
all trips to date have been one-day trips and departure and return times are posted.
and in fact, comet sw3 is not the first comet astronomers have watched shatter.
- pagosa area water and sanitation department is expanding the storage capability of stevens lake reservoir and needs our property for this project.
as part of the may 23 adoption hearing, the board will also decide on a zoning transition plan that will provide a set of procedures for the creation of the county's first official zoning map.
banner will be flying in front too.
properties in alpha/rock ridge are three, five and 10 acres with a rural  feel.
new events this year  include two competitions: one in fiber arts and the other in hand-spun yarns.
but, once all donations are in,  special tanker trucks full of wriggling rainbows, and perhaps a few brown  trout, will arrive in the days to follow.
as a result, more pets and strays are being impounded and, as a result of our aggressive spay and neuter programs, the organization is struggling to keep up with demand at our current location.
another part of the castle  that's fascinating is the front door, as it serves as a magical portal to four  different locations in the movie, including the wastes.
i found myself  transfixed by the aboriginal detail and maze-like paths in "satellite  781," an acrylic and ink composition by julie king, nacogdoches, texas.
the effect differs relative to location and this location was wrong; there are not 112 living units within a half-mile radius of the proposed location.
for further information contact the durango office at 247-0278.
charla ellis is the pagosa springs high school art teacher.
i didn't see the  artist pushing any boundaries or exploring any interesting ideas.
"the response from the community, and especially from  local merchants, has been fantastic."
the chimney rock web site, www.chimneyrockco.org, provides details on both the major lunar standstill program and the full moon program.
one afternoon, as i rummaged in the bookcase in the parlor looking for something to read, i came across a small book and a booklet that greatly influenced my thinking in the years to come.
flyers are ready - vendors, you may pick up your share for distribution.
let's keep pride in pagosa on a high!
- place garbage for pickup outside just before collection and not the night  before.
he was hospitalized on may 1 due to complications of a collapsed lung.
the device uses a mixture of propane and oxygen and is  detonated in a burrow.
they are almost always the third friday of the month.
i can't remember what it was, but i immediately knew the answer, for it referred to "a message to garcia.
i rinse the garbanzos and toss them in and amp up the herbs a bit.
the u.s. postal inspection service, as part of the crime victims' rights and consumer protection initiatives, has provided the den with an informative dvd film.
the code will provide a necessary counterbalance to the tremendous force of  development.
after just eight weeks of basic training, trujillo found himself three miles in front of the main line resistance, on the infamous hill 351.
come dine at the willy wonka table created by pagosa candy company.
when the owner of the building discovered the damage april 29, he found a key ring in the entry to the building - a key ring maxwell believes might have been dropped by a suspect.
bring a lunch and we will all eat  together in the canyon.
register early to receive an early registration discount (registration postmarked by may 12) and to secure placement in the camp, as enrollment is limited.
- processing b&w film - july 22, 1:30-3:30 p.m.
there will be one or  more tables reserved for singles.
council seeks help with trails projects
but that dream is utterly incompatible with where our children are at in their lives.
litter' means any scattered refuse or  rubbish.
one of his favorite relaxing pastimes was playing horseshoes.
come experience this type of yoga through our instructor suki at the den 10 a.m. every tuesday.
construction traffic also raised concern among forest personnel.
and, speaking of that, watch for lots of information - in the preview and  in a flyer that will be sent home with the kids from the schools - about the  summer reading program.
burma shave - brother speeder, let's rehearse all together - good morning nurse.
the agent will be required to provide svi.
photoshop classes bruce andersen's next photoshop class will be held 7-9 p.m. june 5, 12 and 19.
"we had good clothing in alaska," said trujillo.
and we need volunteer help and involvement to make these trail improvements  happen.
such a project would also give more room on main street for traffic and decrease the traffic hazards.
we lost quite a few of our brothers over there.
the trails plan includes many miles of future trails in the community,  details community needs and desires based on public input forums, trail design  and criteria, trail locations and priorities and timelines for trail  construction.
madrid said she is working with other county clerks in an effort to change this policy.
"not everyone is going to agree with my choices," chancey said,  but then added: "the prize winners are of such clear quality that anyone  would have picked them." quality?
but frenchman eric julien is not convinced, and he, and others like him, believe sw3's breakup and near-earth passage mean the end of the world.
1998-- educational programs created for public and school system.
if you can only attend the concert and dinner, tickets are $10 and may also be purchased at the chamber or at the door.
and aside from the momentary drama between plan opponent sandy bramwell and archuleta county commissioner ronnie zaday, who offered a stiff, emphatic rebuttal and ultimate denial of bramwell's "put-it-to-the-voters" request, the meeting moved forward without incident, and drew a standing-room-only crowd, including full representation from the county's planning commission, attendance by county planning staff and archuleta county commissioners mamie lynch and ronnie zaday.
certainly, formulating a long-term solution will take a while, perhaps even years.
madrid said  she is working with other county clerks in an effort to change this policy.
at the end, they stepped down from the stage and serenaded the crowd with special participation of a man from the audience named ricardo .
many of the rest seem content with seasonal access, even if it perpetuates lower land values.
" trujillo and archuleta were able to visit with each other for about five minutes before trujillo was sent back to the front, as the line had been secured.
the ladies of pagosa springs will next week have on sale the official american legion poppies for memorial day, the sale being in charge of mrs. clara mullins, gold-star mother.
the christian life that ovie lived in this community will leave many lasting memories for all of us that knew him.
"my dad came over wolf creek pass in covered wagons," said trujillo.
also, a land use code, like all governance, should create balance.
with vote centers, electors will cast their ballots at the nearest, or most convenient, vote center location.
call the center at 264-4152 to be included on the waiting list for upcoming classes.
i hope to see many of you at the opening of our hospital in the fall of  2007.
and the popular summer reading program.
i also liked her first-place winner: "cherries under ice" by  janet collins, sedona, ariz.
and frankly, i feel pretty optimistic."
space is limited to 15 students.
"it's pretty much an even match," said the coach.
those whose art appears in the calendar are january - "tenderly drawn away," a painting by betty slade; february - "alberta peak," photo by jan brookshier; march - "blue moon ranch," photo by art franz; april - "pagosa junction water tank," photo by diana re baird; may - "fast water," photo by al olson; june - "wolf creek valley," photo by jeff laydon; july - "red ryder ballet," photo by david hunter; august - "buffalo dancer at chimney rock," photo by barbara rosner; september - "opal lake," fabric collage by jeanine malaney; october - "twisting elk," stone mosaic by emily tholberg; november -
currently, there are 396 registered electors in the arboles area, and  madrid said after analyzing voter numbers and historic voter turnout she  concluded it was not economically feasible to put a vote center in arboles and  she opted to concentrate vote centers in the pagosa springs area.
the wildlife commission also heard a presentation from the dow staff  regarding recommended restrictions on the taking of prairie dogs.
this strategy, she said, would allow the county to meet the needs of disabled or physically challenged voters, would keep the county in line with the help america vote act and would keep the initial cash outlay for the direct recording equipment at a minimum until the bugs could be worked out of the new technology and the county coffers could better weather the expense.
i read that 70 percent of american moms say they find motherhood today incredibly stressful.
pirates place at league meet, set for regionals by karl isberg staff writer pirates track teams finished well at last week's intermountain league championship meet at bayfield, but coaches and athletes alike expect bigger things at saturday's regional meet.
if an elector does not receive a signature card via mail, one can be filled out at the vote center, however madrid said electors should budget extra time for the procedure.
for more information, contact shannon manfredi, 385-1229.
the access restrictions pertain to a three-mile stretch of road beginning  at the san juan national forest boundary approximately four miles from the  intersection of mill creek road and u.s. 84, and continuing into the high west  unit 11, mill creek ranch, rito blanco ranch and cimarrona subdivisions.
he continues  to captivate us with studio ghibli's astonishingly detailed animation, as it  entices us into yet another world alive with wondrous enchantment and charming  characters, providing a true feeling of escape.
once a bear has found a feeder in your yard, it will  likely look around for other easy foods within reach.
all the elements are present.
all proceeds from this funraising event support the seeds of learning  capital campaign for a new facility.
properties in alpha/rock ridge are three, five and 10 acres with a rural feel.
and if we haven't met you before, please come to the reception area and introduce yourself; chances are very good that there are activities which will pique your interest.
archuleta county clerk and recorder june madrid said she thinks this policy could be an inconvenience to citizens and appears to be intrusive.
the spanish fiesta club gives three scholarships to local high school students annually.
kraetsch, in his first at-bat in a varsity game, calmly jacked one over the right-field fence in the top of the 10th to give the buccaneers the lead.
when the owner of the building discovered the damage april 29, he found a  key ring in the entry to the building - a key ring maxwell believes might have  been dropped by a suspect.
madrid said the upcoming primary election would be a key proving ground for  both the new voting machines and the election centers.
catch and release by james robinson staff writer
this project has always seemed like a quality community trail proposal but the catch is there is no federal or local funding for trail construction with this project.
- livestock farmers exhibiting and selling alpacas, llamas, sheep, goats, scottish highlander cattle, yak and fuzzy french lops.
may 30-june 3 - pagosa pretenders children's drama camp.
with archuleta county's 10 voting precincts, the act requires installation of 10 dres.
yoga in motion relaxes the mind and revitalizes the body's natural energy, while promoting an overall sense of well-being.
sticky barbecue sauce and grease can attract bears to your yard.
- the restoration fellowship church, 264 village drive early voting to ease the pressure on election day, the board of county commissioners  also approved early voting for archuleta county.
their league is similar to ours - both feature a couple strong teams that are head and shoulders above the rest of the league.
the groups view  the water district's move to secure a 35,000-acre-foot reservoir, plus the  right to divert 200 cubic feet per second from the san juan river east of  pagosa springs to continually refill the reservoir, as essentially a water grab.
mystery trips are advertised in the silver foxes den senior center newsletter, which is published monthly.
school families gathered to view projects and share in a meal  together.
- certified birth certificate (federal, state, county, dept. of justice,  dept. of state and bureau of indian affairs).
many county clerks across colorado do not agree with this new policy.
the pretenders are producing this drama camp with money receive from an el  pomar foundation award.
how does the town planning and council approve developers' plans when the property is in the county?
carl van hess avoid "old" dear editor: joe and i want to thank you for publishing the news, with pictures (yeah) of our 65th wedding anniversary, which we observed march 21, 2006.
the dance will begin at 7:30 p.m. and will end at 10:30.
in order to fully comply under the 10-precinct scenario, madrid said the  county would have to provide the remaining $105,000 - funds madrid said, the  county does not have.
a golf tournament was created to raise funds for the scholarship.
but as i walked around viewing the work, considering what chancey told me about her selection process.
the taos event is now totally self-supporting with vendors bringing in $50,000-$60,000 in sales.
inside she meets calcifer (voiced by billy crystal, "analyze that"), a smart-alecky fire demon residing in howl's fireplace.
the home and garden show was great and appeared to be well attended.
pagosa sky watch disaster in the skies ... or not by james robinson staff writer
november 1994 - pack rack thrift store opens on lewis street.
there were trips to the grocery store, times  of sickness, the never-ending packing of school lunches, and the countless  shuttles to soccer games and after school activities.
she gave me freedom, and has taught, by her own example,  acceptance.
" said one high school teacher to another, "good heavens, that boy's a fool, the fault, of course, is with the middle school."
however, my personal favorites in this vein were both works by new york artist ha rhin kim: "rotte tree 2005-11" and "rotte tree 2005-03."
he also spent many years as a volunteer for c.r.w.r.c. and the red cross in a christian outreach and relief effort.
the rest of the infield stayed the same with seniors jim guyton and josh hoffman at first-base and shortstop respectively.
she's a hard worker, and she encourages people at practice.
"we did speed work tuesday and the kids are tired.
he also won the triple jump at 40-6 and took second in long jump, leaping 19-3.5.
"even though i'm spanish, i'm american first.
according to county documents, schiro had scheduled 31 out-of-town trips  between jan. 27, 2006 and the present - a time period totaling 104 days - and  at a current cost of $470 to the county.
based on tournament seeding, they were matched up again, and the fourth-place pirates would have to meet no. 1-seeded monte.
perhaps it is an evolutionary adaptation.
by making food available to a bear, people train it to associate humans with food.
the burial service will be held saturday, may 13 at 10 a.m. at the immaculate heart of mary catholic church.
the end-of-the-year trip will combine fun with learning about local geology and history, as well as physical activity.
for information on these and other veterans' benefits call or stop by the archuleta county veterans service office located at 46 eaton drive, suite 7 (behind city market).
upcoming events the community center needs volunteers for all three of the following events.
with it, some simple turkey burgers (i'm broke; i've been spending our savings on wine).
phase three: create memorial garden, walking trails and bark park.
they can be useful in wild land settings, pastures, roadsides, disturbed areas, landscape plantings, and other areas.
and i dove into a pair of waders while my bibliophile mother  and sister dove into their respective books and hunkered down next to the river  wrapped in quilts.
zellner benefit scheduled pagosan kirk zellner was injured while cutting down a tree in late april.
thursday, may 18 - meal day in arboles.
the voters approved a cap of $12 million, so we have to build smart, and the architect's design has to be very specific to reduce the need for later changes.
here are some tips to prevent bears from becoming habituated to human food: - take down, clean and put away bird feeders.
the following is a list of transactions that will require your  identification: new titles, duplicate titles, new registrations, temporary  permits and new handicap placards.
if you have additional questions call susan garman, 731-2485.
these are lessons that transcend those learned on river, but they are  lessons i apply during every excursion and before every cast.
senior services receives daniels grant archuleta county senior services announced last week it has received a  $32,000 daniels fund grant to support the senior programs of archuleta county.
at noon, april merilee will share an interactive children's story titled,  "swimming lessons."
monte vista went on to defeat the ignacio bobcats 14-4 for the league title and advance to the 3a state tournament this weekend.
there will be contests  and giveaways, with lunch at the clubhouse.
the children's choir, under the direction of sue anderson, will perform  several of their favorite selections at 1 p.m.
masonic use of the term "master" originated in the guilds of the  middle ages when the person most skilled was called master, much masonic  vocabulary dates from that period.
offices of the president, housing and residence life, student and academic affairs, and the associated students and faculty hosted the event.
the only way a landowner is able to use the full value of their land is to sell it.
cost for the year is $75 and $140 buys the program and an annual pass at the golf course for the participant.
in addition, the local fbla chapter received three awards in the "state only" events: andersen received ninth place in job search and the poster team of hayley goodman and julianna whipple each received fourth place.
the event will be held in town park.
cash and item prizes will be presented for first, second and third, and there will be people's choice awards.
they, too, walk to village lake.
- the location of the existing shelter has become a desirable residential district and homeowners are applying pressure to get the animal shelter to move.
madrid said the upcoming primary election would be a key proving ground for both the new voting machines and the election centers.
call if you are interested.
both took significant time off their 3,200-meter times - a feat rare among underclassmen.
learn how water is important to all of us, and be ready to be one of our actors if you'd like.
leaders, businesses and private individuals are working to maximize pagosa's potential as a place to visit and a place to live.
the tables will then be auctioned off, from tablecloth up.
i  counted six big tankers from venezuela dock the one day we were there.
the dvd features on the two-disc edition of "howl's moving castle" are plentiful.
" - families with young children viewing and touching the animals, a unique and educational experience to be found nowhere else.
i dice the onion and pepper.
she ran the 200 in 29.34 and the 400 in 62.33.
caprioli, low, mcdonald and lyndsey mackey took first in the 800 sprint medley with a time of 1:59.87.
words is out about this fantastic program and it's time to throw away the alibis - c'mon down and shake those bodies.
i do wish to acknowledge, however, that it is the toughest job in the world and often thankless.
public invited to review and comment on plan revisions the san juan public lands center is hosting round of public meetings in may to offer updates on the san juan national forest management plan/blm resource management plan revisions and to get feedback on three resource topics not discussed in detail during last year's study group meetings: - draft travel suitability: areas where motorized use is appropriate, where motorized use is emphasized, and where non-motorized use is emphasized; - draft mineral lease areas: areas where oil and gas leasing is being considered; - draft inventory of rivers and streams eligible for consideration as wild and scenic rivers maps showing the latest version of land allocations for the revised plan and possible alternatives will also be available for review.
no - i was a committed mother, eager to do right by my children.
these things may seem insignificant, but they can create behavior patterns  in bears which often cannot be reversed.
schur, fulmer, jessica lynch and jenni webb-shearston ran a 10:08.8 for first in the 4x800, 19 seconds ahead of second-place centauri.
entry fees are $20 for psac members and $25 general; $30 for psac members for two entries and $35 general for two entries.
ever hear of baffle them with bs? janet valdez some brakes dear editor: when i was growing up in the northwest, my brother and i shared a sled.
" more than that, she deemed work to be most successful that expressed the idea of the past as part of one's present identity, of ancestor's traveling with us as we move forward.
in february of this year she  taught an acting course at fort lewis college.
we are in a frenzy of development activity  right now; large ranches are being bought up with plans to turn open grazing  land and forested mountains into home sites.
contact john applegate at  731-9325 for information on this project and to sign up for volunteer work.
harold morrison, a very loyal and wonderfully productive volunteer, is taking care of the mulching of the picnic table area.
you must be a member of archuleta seniors, inc. to be eligible, as most of the cost is paid for by the organization.
stolen children and collapsing societies by kate terry "collapse," by jared diamond, penguin group, new york, 2005.
i fly over to the flesh section and pick up a pack of 85/15 ground turkey.
if you would like to become involved in  the martinez canyon trail project call larry lynch at 731-5635 for more  information and to be added to the list of helpers.
2004 - organization awarded $18,010 in grants.
the pagosa pretenders family theatre is known for its spontaneous productions such as "2001: a space oddity" and "escape to broadway.
for advance registration and further information, call wen saunders 264-4486 or visit www.wendysaunders.com and pagosa-arts.com.
at the end of the week, all trees will be auctioned off and the money will go to a non-profit organization, chosen by the tree's sponsor.
call 264-2208 for more information.
let's hope the current population  keeps the faith, enjoys the snow along with the brilliant sunshine and says a  "hi" to everyone.
the district is now in communication with architects (prochaska) and its contractor, g.e. johnson, to ready plans for the commencement of construction sometime next fall.
for the library table theme, anita chose "where the wild things are," by maurice sendak - her daughter's favorite book.
thanks again, doris g. hudson forward looking dear editor: i wish to thank all the forward looking citizens who took the time to become informed and vote for our hospital.
according to balsam, it was wirt himself who told him, "when grave (a former agency superintendent) left i began to worry that they might send me a crackpot down here as superintendent, so i wrote faris a letter to be sure we got the right kind.
the human eye sees differently than a camera, and it's our job to compensate to get the picture we see.
jerry will enjoy free lunches all week.
for movement and texture i liked "annexation of control" by jennifer peel, tyler, texas, graphite and latex paint on paper mounted on canvas.
they also wanted some way of giving back to a community that had captured their hearts with a remarkable outpouring of generosity and love during their most difficult time.
full-day sessions are $85 psac, $95 general ($105 after may 14).
park fun registration spring is in the air, with summer vacation just around the bend.
and not without workable regulations in hand to deal with the proposal.
the tools that would have allowed plans to be halted or changed at a lower administrative level are not yet in place in the county.
county surveyor howe left on wednesday with a crew of four men to begin the survey for the pagosa state line secondary highway.
the  dance is an over-21 event and id may be checked at the door.
call kim today to reserve your spot, 264-5931.
it will take a year or more for infested plants to die.
love, mom, dad, chris, family and friends.
by then, if all goes well, some 1,700 pounds of large catchable trout will have been introduced to various sections of river between the apache street bridge and the conoco station near the intersection of u.s. 160 and u.s. 84.
whether you are a person working to keep your ranch operating, or see that  same ranch as an incredibly beautiful view, or you are an elk hunter, fly  fisher, or want clean drinking water for your kids, everyone benefits when the  land stays open and productive.
therefore, the choice has come down to two different units, one built by  braun, inc., and the other by leader.
students  at tierra alta schools enjoy hands-on, active learning through projects and  activities all year.
disc 2 of the special edition features the entire storyboard version of the film.
her second-place winner, "immigrant," by barbara giorgio, selma, ind., and her third-place winner, "missed fortune," by veronica day, morris, conn. both explore this theme using photographic techniques.
there are between 8,000 and 12,000 bears in colorado and most of them have  awakened from their winter hibernation.
i  remember the pile of a dozen or so books she kept next to her bed, and her  sewing room, acting as a chaotic, surrogate library, bursting at the seams with  countless volumes of fiction and nonfiction alike.
officials would like the adult swans to be comfortable during the repair of the dam on pinon causeway and not abandon their nest.
do not disturb the release site for a few weeks, then mow the area (if feasible) to distribute the mites and stimulate new bindweed growth.
they offer airport pickup and drop off, corporate transportation, casino runs, weddings and transportation for just about any special event.
as a result, the teen center is presenting a crash course in hip hop on may 20, 21 and 22..
remember, we have orange trash bags here at the chamber and lyn delange, owner of the welcoming service, will provide doughnuts to your group the morning of your pick-up project.
i love this weekend; it's one of my favorites in track.
- a fashion show at the end of each day illustrating the theme "from fleece to fashion.
cost for sponsorship is $150, which includes sponsor's name on team uniforms, commemorative plaque with team picture and designation in media articles.
in 2005, 183 participants trekked  up and down the mesa, often in the dead of night.
the new overlay/tdr program has few  restrictions or "hoops" to get through.
thank you to everyone who has attended  these programs since they began in january.
with regulations in hand.
the gymnasts have a short break until their next competition, may 20 in northglenn.
while my father taught me the patience required to stalk trout, my mother  taught me patience with others.
there are too many items being rushed through a broken system without showing respect to those area residents.
what matters is some of us got it, most of us don't.
- the septic system, a septic lagoon, is already at capacity and cannot  handle a larger load.
this month, the drama and story presentation will take place in town  park, not at the library.
the sessions are: - 35mm camera operation - july 10, 6-8 p.m. - available light (f-stops/shutter speeds) - july 11, 6-8 p.m. - electronic flash systems - july 12, 6-8 p.m. - 35mm b&w infrared film - july 22, 10 a.m.-noon.
d, port neches, tx 77651.
it is best to release mites in the cooler part of the day to maximize their survival.
offerings also include a kids program, arts and crafts vending, on-site camping and more.
while those choirs averaged 50-60 voices, this treble choir of 17 voices demonstrated it is not the size of the choir, but musical finesse that impresses the judges.
the witch intrudes on the hat shop one night and places a curse upon sophie, turning her into a 90-year-old woman (she is now voiced by actress jean simmons, "the dawning"), and to make matters worse the curse forbids her from ever telling anyone about it.
despite three days of testimony and a judge's pending decision, the pagosa area water and sanitation district board of directors nearly averted mention of its dry gulch reservoir litigation tuesday.
downing received her formal training at adams state college.
if you have questions about this program, call mercy at 264-4152, ext.
monday, may 15 - salmon patty, steamed rice with cream sauce, mixed vegetables, apricots and whole wheat bread.
julien says, after further telepathic consultation with his extraterrestrial friends, may 25 is the day of reckoning.
maggie chavez, nick bergbower, and keele smith and family for the flowers.
each camper receives a camp basketball and a camp t-shirt.
- valid us military id (active duty, dependent, retired, reserve and  national guard).
children (age 10 and older) may submit their posters to the library at any time.
bring donations at 11 a.m. music by  brother to brother starts at noon.
and now, as an adult, it  comes as no surprise, that in regard to books, my house is much like hers -  books on shelves, books stacked on every flat surface and books next to the  bed.
michael promises to play a wide variety of music so we can dance the night away.
and although wilderness and coffee may seem disparate, the two, in fact,  are inextricably connected.
psac is seeking donated items for its silent auction.
about 440 children and widows of spanish-american war veterans still receive va compensation or pensions.
this could be important for future benefit or claims purposes (ssa applications require an original or certified copy of this document).
barbecue chicken with oven potatoes, spinach, mixed fruit and whole wheat bread.
according to jackson, reid said the adult swans are nesting on the shore of  the lake and should not be disturbed.
the rate was not revealed at  tuesday's meeting.
it is a goal of the pretenders to provide quality education, creativity and experience in the performing arts to camp students.
the choice ultimately came down to four different institutions, which all  offered attractive rates.
not because it was "low-income" or "affordable."
if new federal regulations occur after the july meeting, the commission may modify its regulations in august.
society's response to it's environmental problems.
i hustle through the store because i am in a hurry to get home and watch house hunters on the home and garden channel - my new favorite show.
but first, the fish have to arrive.
she added that if the  process proves unwieldy or compromises electors in outlying areas of the  county, a fourth vote center could be established if direct record equipment  can be procured.
ron and linda are specialists in alternative energy, heating stoves, fireplaces and inserts, wood- and pellet-fired stoves.
the leagues are tentatively scheduled to begin in early june.
and i kept coming back to "unified theory of forces" by nancy  pollock, santa fe, a layered canvas of oil paint with a tree in a box on the  left side of the canvas and
if you get voicemail, leave a message, as tickets are sold on a first-come, first-served basis.
and the light  glinting off the melting ice, dripping off the cherry is very nice.
- consider a bear-proof dumpster - if not available, ask your trash-removal company for options.
your call will be returned in the order it was received.
we begin setup and decorating at 9 a.m. the day of the dance, and we  would love to have anyone interested come down and help.
director sue anderson, a 20-plus-year choral director veteran, is no  stranger to superior ratings for her choirs and ensembles.
the dance will begin at 7:30 p.m. and end at 10:30.
"it gives us a baseline to address future growth, it allows us to preserve what we have, it will help keep costs reasonable for development and infrastructure, and will identify and maintain viable areas of open space for community use and preservation.
the association donated $9,000 of the proceeds to the dow.
we must protect the border.
she added that if the process proves unwieldy or compromises electors in outlying areas of the county, a fourth vote center could be established if direct record equipment can be procured.
new grass, dandelions, and young plants are typical natural foods - but bears are opportunists and will eat anything they find.
schedules will be announced in the preview for three weeks prior to the beginning of rehearsals and will be posted online at www.pagosachoir.org.
over 40-percent of the psac budget comes from fund-raising events and your support is needed to keep the arts thriving in pagosa springs.
barb will share the book, "common ground," by molly bang, as part  of the pagosa reads program.
joan was born sept. 24, 1930, in wilson, okla., to zelma and j.d. lewis, whose loving arms welcomed her into heaven.
volunteer at gallery
see how she can help you and your employees through the quagmire of benefit packages.
all head coaches and players who registered in this division should attend.
"we are very well acquainted with the trajectory of comet 73p schwassmann-wachmann 3," said donald yeomans, manager of nasa's near earth object program office.
the dialogue is well translated, and the english  cast is well fitted with the characters, especially billy crystal providing the  voice of calcifer.
a hunter from utah offered the winning bid of $45,000.
it is brightly colored and illuminated for a reason!
"howl's moving castle's" captivating story and gorgeous animation earned hayao miyazaki his second oscar nomination.
bruce hayes to perform in pagosa bruce hayes performs in a 6:30 p.m. house concert may 20 at the karas house  in holiday acres.
june 16 - psac "the secret of your success: "different perspective marketing mix," 1:30-4:30 p.m.
eca offers women's hand drumming, men's  hand drumming and also children's classes.
those shortcomings were detailed in a letter from the  forest service to "mill creek road users" in march 2006, and have  prompted the agency to look for new ways of handling access restrictions and  snow removal next winter, and in the years beyond.
men's and women's classes are forming now so call to register.
registration forms are available at the department office, which is now located upstairs in town hall.
"mia has become a very good leader," said o'donnell.
sign up for these programs begins june 1 at the library.
- the size of the water line is inadequate for the water pressure needs of  an animal shelter.
balsam was a bit more poignant and blunt in his findings than opler had been.
the photocopy must be a readable photocopy or it will be rejected.
the win put monte in the championship game later that day.
the female face is beautiful, but bound by susurration.
bring your dd form 214 (discharge) for application for va programs, and for filing in the vso office.
these proposed  dates can be found on the dow web site and will be up for final consideration  at the july commission meeting.
i've kept both book and  booklet all these years.
future trailhead parking areas are included in the project providing four different parking and trail access locations complete with informational signs.
do courts use ritual opening and closing court sessions?
we would like you to bring a favorite appetizer, something you'd make for a really special occasion.
the senior took the title in the 100, at 13.74.
operating costs are covered through sales at our thrift store, private donations, fund-raising events, grants from private foundations and fees from the town and county for impounding services provided.
unfortunately, forest service employees reported numerous occasions over the winter where the gate was left unlocked or wide open.
when i look back on that evening together, it strikes me that at that moment, me and my mother must have appeared very different - me decked out in high tech fishing gear stalking trout with maniacal intensity, she sitting at a picnic bench wrapped in a quilt reading - but in fact, although seemingly different, we are in fact, much the same, and who i am today, is probably due largely to her.
following the war, our country began experimenting with its own home-delivered nutritional meal program.
furthermore, rather than receiving a $160,000 grant for a 10-precinct  installation, the county received only $56,000 from the help america vote act.
the lines to the verses were spread among two or more signs and people would read them as they rode along.
and for both, proponent and opponent alike, it was an historic moment in archuleta county history.
- original or certified copy of a dd 214 (us military separation papers) from the department of defense or veteran affairs.
i wouldn't expect a high-scoring affair; i look for tight game, with little scoring.
but, once all donations are in, special tanker trucks full of wriggling rainbows, and perhaps a few brown trout, will arrive in the days to follow.
these things may seem insignificant, but they can create behavior patterns in bears which often cannot be reversed.
voter turnout was higher than expected, and the official results showed 1,321 in favor, with 107 opposed.
the first official public viewing since the rediscovery of the local major lunar standstill (mls) phenomena at chimney rock archaeological area, by astronomer dr. j. mckim malville in 1988, was a success, according to victoria white, mls program administrator for the chimney rock interpretive association (cria).
when completed, this will be  an amazing trail system that has the advantage of being within walking distance  of many residents in the community, or at the most a short car or bike ride  away.
he only takes the best!
the junior golf program is for youngsters ages 5 to 12, and runs may 30-july 17, with a championship tournament july 18.
what about the opening and closing of the olympics?
he spent the next 20 years teaching high school woodshop where he influenced and inspired many young men and women with his love of working and creating with wood.
individual tickets or whole tables are available at seeds of learning on san juan street through the day, today.
we would like to recognize and thank all of the wonderful community members who supported our fund-raising event.
control of bindweed over a large area can take years: be patient, mow, move mites manually and you will increase your chances of success.
as you would expect, simms's account was very flattering.
the thickened texture and fuzzy appearance are good diagnostic characteristics to identify bindweed mite presence.
joan and otis bought a home and property in the blanco basin in 1977.
campbell said following an escalation of personal pressures, leist opted to leave last week but would be available by phone during monday's meeting.
while the roots of  her training lie in classical music, she understands and enjoys experimenting  with voice, writing music and encouraging others to sing and speak loudly.
we are also accepting applications for substitute drivers.
there will be growth here.
classes will be offered each day 8:30 a.m. to noon at pagosa springs high school.
program, sponsored by ruby m. sisson library, announces an art contest for adults and children.
families will also be entertained by a clown with bubbles and  storybook characters with cookies for all.
re'ahna ray placed second in every event and second in the all-around with a 37.20.
by anna harbison special to the preview seventeen members of the dolce cantare choir, one of two pagosa springs children's chorale choirs, traveled to denver last weekend to compete with nearly 1,700 young musicians from seven states at "music in the parks.
according to hopkins, borrowing will be done in two phases.
unlike my mother, and in a different age and culture, my husband shared in the responsibilities of child-raising.
"there is absolutely no danger to people on the ground or the inhabitants of the international space station, as the main body of the object and any pieces from the breakup will pass many millions of miles beyond the earth."
however, as long as the forest  service holds its commitment, landowners continue their resolve, and the county  remains engaged, most agree, answers are forthcoming.
the major lunar standstill viewings are sponsored by the chimney rock interpretive association, inc., in partnership with the usda forest service, san juan national forest, pagosa ranger district.
he passed away with his daughters danielle and angela, plus with jessie cardoso, dolores gurule and ramona gurule, by his side.
attending from pagosa springs high school, in addition to the reward recipients, were kelly crow, ben devoti, patrick ford, darran garcia, jamilyn harms, casey hart, jennifer haynes, anna hershey, kerry joe hilsabeck, kristin hopper, kim judd, jessica lynch, elise mcdonald, aaron miller, kyle peterzen, michael spitler, chesea taylor, trevor trujillo, katie vowles, jenni webb-shearston and adrienne young.
musical selections - "i am being woven" and "may you always  have a song" - were adjudicated by dr. galen darrough, vocal department  chair at the university of northern colorado, and mike kornelsen, director of  choral activities at metropolitan state college.
a ph.d. candidate, the soon-to-be dr. chancey completed her dissertation on  the abstract expressionist painter elaine de kooning.
the exterior looks like a massive heap of scrap metal and steam pipes walking around on four legs, while the interior resembles a simple two-story house.
track events will begin at noon.
meanwhile, usjhsd has been searching for a new ambulance and at tuesday's  meeting, choices were narrowed to two.
madrid said the new voting machines require about 10 minutes for voters to cast their ballots.
once, during a separate visit, we returned home around midnight after an evening out, and both craved a cup.
the oil and gas regulations include criteria for monitoring methane content  in water wells, mitigation requirements to minimize the impact of oil and gas  truck traffic on county roads and setbacks for oil and gas sites near  recreational areas and schools.
with the help of directors of the charles w. hughes foundation, the family  found a way to establish the lauren white memorial scholarship - a scholarship  now administered with the help of staff at pagosa springs high school.
lodge management is encouraging people not to walk up to the nesting area to  check on the swans.
our code does just the opposite.
the program will consist of 10, 90-minute sessions from which to choose - up from six, hour-long sessions last season.
- lectures on the care and maintenance of small livestock.
joan thomas joan lewis thomas, 75 years young, entered eternal life peacefully friday, april 21, 2006, after a courageous battle with pancreatic cancer.
all participants kept their gross scores for the round, and at the end of the round, tallied how many holes they scored a five.
on friday, may 19, the community center will come alive with music from dj michael murphy from durango.
by chuck mcguire staff writer the search for answers to the mill creek road winter access puzzle continues.
others will prepare and sell foods that represent the different countries.
trujillo was trained as a paratrooper and completed more than 70 successful jumps.
jim knoll no respect dear editor: we are going to have growth and progress in our area, but it needs to be  with respect to the residents.
it is her careful guidance, of knowing when to let go, of  knowing when to be firm, of teaching by example not by lecture, that has shaped  who i am today.
second in the 4x200 went to caprioli, lynch, low and stephanie lowe with a time of 1:51.94.
"a colorful ride," painting by claire goldrick; december - "river lights," photo by al olson.
as agreed, she and my sister flew  down from seattle and met me at my home in albuquerque.
lauren white golf tournament saturday former pagosa springs residents cindy, burly and chris white wanted to find some way to pay special tribute to their daughter and sister, lauren, following her tragic death in a 2002 automobile accident.
he finished third in the iml with a time of 10:56.88.
sports page pirates host fountain valley in soccer playoffs
all dealers are required to include a readable photocopy of the svi to  complete title transactions.
the girls were grouped together in one age group, with 11 total competitors.
by  meeting's end, a full third of the agenda items, including an update on the dry  gulch litigation case, were rescheduled for next month's meeting.
then too, anita garnered lovely donations from lee riley, mike coffee and jackie and peter welch.
" "lack of something like this was brought our attention early last  fall," says pretenders secretary sean downing.
a july wedding is planned.
scott maxwell, there is a strong suspicion the two incidents are related.
we have been in need of a new shelter for several years.
please remember that this is for the children in our community.
the workshop atmosphere is relaxed and open to all levels of students.
"it gives us a baseline to address future growth, it allows us to  preserve what we have, it will help keep costs reasonable for development and  infrastructure, and will identify and maintain viable areas of open space for  community use and preservation.
the number of registrations turned in for pony (13-14) and bronco (11-12) divisions is sufficient to support one team in each of these age brackets.
i know that over the years i have given her much grey hair, and at  times, i'm sure she had her doubts.
for many moms, work and motherhood becomes a juggling act - a very tough act.
by early june, we should have picnic tables, benches, a coffee/refreshment cart, outside book sale carts and some colorful plants at the entrance of the library for your enjoyment.
he keeps those of us who possess superior u-scan skills from promptly paying and receiving our receipt.
"we will not cancel it or give refunds if the moonrise is  obscured by weather.
memorial services were held in albuquerque, with burial at mt. calvary cemetery on wednesday, april 26, 2006.
once they are ready to eat again, they become relentless in their search for food.
advance registration is required to assure seating.
you only got to decide where you were going, not if.
thanks to all the organizations and volunteers who work hard to keep pagosa beautiful.
come and volunteer for all kinds of summer projects at the library.
it sounds bizarre, but there's nothing quite like a good nap in your favorite chair, book flopped on the floor and a cold cup of coffee by your side, before you really hit the hay.
- pagosa area water and sanitation department is expanding the storage  capability of stevens lake reservoir and needs our property for this project.
our lovely blue pagosa reads!
in addition to his satisfaction with the oil and gas regulations, alvord was pleased with the land use code project as a whole.
an account has been established at wells fargo for those wishing to  contribute directly to the program.
our goal is to attract crowds the size of the taos  wool festival, estimated at 3-5,000 in 2005.
if you would like to become involved in the martinez canyon trail project call larry lynch at 731-5635 for more information and to be added to the list of helpers.
" the town police department will issue notices to anyone who has junk or litter on their premises after clean-up week.
the entry resulted in damage to the door.
my grandfather has many fond memories of his youth spent in the pagosa  springs area.
many of the rest seem content with  seasonal access, even if it perpetuates lower land values.
while growing up, she worked hard to raise five kids, and although my stepfather was there, i'm sure, at times, the pressures of motherhood were tough to bear.
all proceeds from this funraising event support the seeds of learning capital campaign for a new facility.
following their initial discovery, the comet was lost from view until 1979.
- i-94 with refugee-asylum status.
we need to help them with their future education dreams.
this program is for anyone who enjoys playing games like scrabble, monopoly, poker, card games, dominoes, mahjong, bunko, mercy's popular filipino domino - whatever suits your fancy, but just games for fun.
the summer after i finished the sixth grade, we went to visit my aunts at  the home place in kentucky.
releases will be limited to 10 per person and must be prepaid.
it provides a conveniences to voters, there's no wrong place to  vote," madrid said.
for the first few weeks following hibernation, bears drink lots of water,  helping their digestive system adjust.
i'll agree with her on that point.
maybe an attorney needs to check to see if what they are doing is truly  legal.
after weeks of fighting, trujillo's company would be pulled back for "rest and recuperation," although there was not much rest to be found between training and drills.
sophie decides to stay in the castle  and serve as a new cleaning lady for howl, hoping to find out more about  calcifer and howl's spell and to see if they can lift her curse.
- people who are guided for hunting, fishing or wildlife viewing on  colorado state wildlife areas by a professional outfitter or guide will remain  required to purchase a wildlife habitat stamp.
just about every month they participate in some community-sponsored event, learning to give back to the community in which they live.
one afternoon, as i rummaged in the bookcase in the parlor looking for  something to read, i came across a small book and a booklet that greatly  influenced my thinking in the years to come.
will it be rushed  through annexation now?
cliff shaw, playing at first-base, singled for monte vista to lead off the bottom half of the fifth, but two good defensive plays by pagosa ended the inning.
by meeting's end, a full third of the agenda items, including an update on the dry gulch litigation case, were rescheduled for next month's meeting.
females with cubs  tend to come out later.
while my father taught me how to read a trout stream, my mother taught me the pleasures of reading and instilled in me a love of books.
the work is acrylic painted on white mylar.
the 4x400 team of fulmer, schur, jessica low and elise mcdonald was first, at 4:23.81.
weaver used the hubble space telescope to study the disintegration of shoemaker- levy 9.
we have very affordable rooms for small, mid-size and large groups.
by sue diffee special to the preview the pagosa springs community choir will present its fourth annual spring  concert - "i'm gonna sing" - friday, may 12 and saturday, may 13, at  7 p.m., and sunday, may 14, at 4 p.m. included in the program will be "jubilate," "american folk
at that point, it was clear we were  truly of the same stock.
the elementary science students have been learning how to grow block  gardens.
clogging is a great way to  develop your sense of rhythm and keep fit at the same time.
"providing this level of fishing right through town is a real benefit to the local economy," cano said.
youngsters can be enrolled in the program at the pagosa springs golf course.
"the association appreciates the work done by the colorado division of wildlife to improve mule deer herds throughout colorado," vita said.
from beginners to experts, everyone is welcome to play and improve.
sessions are open to all levels of shutterbugs (film or digital), including high school and college students (who attend for about half price).
for general or vendor information contact pauline benetti at 264-5232, e-mail to pauline@pagosafiberfestiva.com or log on to the web site, www.pagosafiberfestival.com. music of slambovia at indiefest by crista munro special to the preview with 10 successful four corners folk festivals behind them, the folkwest board of directors decided it was time to create a new cultural opportunity in southwest colorado and indiefest was born.
josh hoffman also beat out the throw to first that advanced trujillo to third, who then scored on a passed-ball.
if a family  purchases four wristbands for a total of $100, they receive a free eddie  spaghetti cd.
cria has hosted seven events for the public to view moonrises between the spires at chimney rock archaeological area.
nothing respectful about plans to put in a wal-mart when the moratorium is lifted come june.
(he or she is kin to that other obnoxious group - the express lane violators).
"i've been places i never would've seen.
on the girls' side, o'donnell sees some stiff competition.
empty lots are being bought up  with plans for spec houses in the works.
it contains several featurettes including interviews with the american voice cast of the film and the writers and director responsible for translating the film into english.
- certified birth certificate (federal, state, county, dept. of justice, dept. of state and bureau of indian affairs).
welcoming our neighbor just to the south of the chamber, we have bank of the san juans renewing.
learn how water is important to all of us,  and be ready to be one of our actors if you'd like.
" the 2006 tickets go on sale may 15.
for more information call 264-4151, ext. 232.
the  man had the reputation for loyalty and taking the initiative.
durango va clinic the durango va outpatient clinic is located at 400 south camino del rio, suite g, (next to big 5 sports).
the restrictions would be imposed to prevent shed collectors from  harassing wildlife during the most severe months of the winter.
in masonry, these penalties are entirely symbolic.
the kind with wood slats and narrow steel runners.
and, by the way, bring your recipe; we'll be sharing those too.
rodriquez walked two runs in and richey sacrificed for an rbi.
it amazes me how americans gripe about paying $3 a gallon for gasoline while they drink their $4 bottled water, which probably comes from a well in tennessee.
michael whiting help with fiesta dear editor: on behalf of the spanish fiesta club we would like to thank everyone who  attended our dinner and dance on friday, cinco de mayo, the piñata party  on saturday and the mariachis on sunday.
chancey made 105 selections from 342 submissions based on her belief that a successful work of art has two components: an interesting idea and successful execution.
perhaps some of that sharp cheddar and a gala apple (4133).extension viewpoints manage field bindweed with mite releases may 12 - 1:45 p.m., 4-h fridays session iii may 12 - 2 p.m., colorado kids club meeting may 12 - 3:10 p.m., goat project meeting may 13 - 10 a.m., mandatory 4-h livestock weigh-in may 15 - 4 p.m., beginning archery at ski and bow rack may 15 - 4:30 p.m., dog obedience project meeting may 16 - 6 p.m., 4-h council meeting may 17 - 10 a.m., garden club meeting may 17 _ 4 p.m., sportsfishing project meeting second basic gps class due to a huge response for the first basic gps class, the archuleta county cooperative extension office will offer a second class scheduled at 7 p.m. june 6.
at this point, the metal shelter will become an isolation ward for all incoming animals.
the only way a landowner is able to use the  full value of their land is to sell it.
the choir hosts a monthly sing-a-long  at pine ridge extended care center and repeats the concert for those who were  unable to attend.
sign up for pirate basketball camp
human behavior in a time of stress will be one of the topics of the discussion.
the youth part of the contest is to design and submit a poster based on the theme, "why is water important?" preschoolers through elementary school students are invited to the library friday, may 19 at any time to work on posters.
at the same time,  according to the region 9 report, "the preservation of a rural lifestyle  and landscape has been identified as priorities in all discussions of economic  development in the region."
"it's unanimous, we have an adoption," garcia said, before dropping the gavel and adjourning monday's joint, planning commission and board of county commissioner's public hearing and work session.
"this drama camp fills a need in our community.
1998 - nine chainlink dog runs added at shelter.
has he looked at the salaries and  golden parachutes of other ceos nationwide, besides oil executives?
it is, moreover, a skill to which only a few are born and the rest (that's most of you, dear readers) must labor long and hard to own.
not only can you remove trash, but you can add some greenery to your property by planting a tree.
but, as the board began to  address requests for reconsideration of various fees assessed to developers and  private landowners recently, progress quickly ground to a screeching halt.
hours worked at the gallery may be used to attend psac workshops throughout the year.
if a hardship exists, call town hall at 264-4151, ext.
we have a good chance to get quite a few of our kids qualified.
i can't remember what it was, but i  immediately knew the answer, for it referred to "a message to garcia.
in the meantime, the forest service has offered three other short-term  options for consideration, and by meeting's end, residents unanimously agreed  to pursue one, over the others.
the  following are the major issues decided by the commission during the meeting: - the commission approved big-game license numbers for deer, elk, bear,  moose, and pronghorn.
and the light glinting off the melting ice, dripping off the cherry is very nice.
we start off with ted mcginn and pagosa & durango limousine services.
with the commissioners' may 2 approval, early voting will commence when  madrid receives the ballots - roughly 30 days prior to either election.
local businesses can keep their names out among the public with their auction donations and gift certificates, and show their support of art in pagosa springs.
rosie lee received first place in business procedures, and heather andersen received second place in business calculations which qualifies them both to compete at the national level.
the commission also heard a presentation by the dow staff regarding the use  of an explosive device to control burrowing animals in areas where they are  causing damage.
the pagosa fiber festival is a perfect fit for the community at this  critical juncture in its history.
gandalf murphy and the slambovian circus of dreams will take the stage sunday, june 11 on reservoir hill.
it's sturdy, not delicate.
we must discriminate between neighborhoods, and the effect a project will have.
"i hollered out, 'archuleta!'
- robert sexton, (303) 205-5697, robert.sexton@cdps.state.co.
perhaps our mothers passed too close to a source of radiation or drank some air freshener when we were in utero.
they are usually scheduled the third friday of the month.
for example, spouses cannot take ballots for their wives or husbands, however, an individual can return a completed ballot on someone else's behalf.
the pirates lose only two to graduation and will add several from a good junior varsity squad.
spectral analysis of the cometary fragments, can provide insights into the early physical and chemical make-up of the solar system.
the last few years, the council has concentrated on the completion of two  new huts to add to the turkey springs cabin.
my husband and i are at a stage in our lives where we dream of grandchildren - a much longed-for gift, when the time is right, from our children.
we can still accommodate a few more.
"how can you not love a picture of a cow?"
the card must be filled out and brought, along with a valid form of identification, to the election center on election day - the primary is on aug 8 and the general election is nov. 7.
he has a great voice!
the unitarians chipped in when our volunteer designer went a wee bit past the modest library budget allocation.
rituals are present in our everyday life.
it does not damage other plant species, and it requires bindweed to survive.
he will focus on water-related ruins and other matters brought up by "people of the moon."
she graduated from woodrow wilson high school in dallas and attended smu and mary hardin-baylor.
and that need could increase in the immediate future.
what a nice gift to give mom for mother's day: a day off!
my cowboy and rodeo images have appeared in american cowboy magazine and western images will be featured in the greeley independence stampede art show in 2006.
the community center dances are a wonderful way to have an affordable evening out on the town.
the group will meet noon until 4 p.m. mondays and 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. thursdays.
since sw3's fragmentation, the comet has been comprised of a chain of fragments, named alphabetically, stretching across several degrees of the sky.
artists should pick up work not accepted into the show on june 28, noon-5:30 p.m.
the next bridge lesson is scheduled for 11 a.m. may 12.
once received by the county, madrid said registered electors can come to  the county clerk's office to pick up a ballot.
eca offers women's hand drumming, men's hand drumming and also children's classes.
as you check out banking qualifications, rates and service, include bank of the san juans on your list.
bindweed mites have the potential to aid in suppression or control of field bindweed in many arid regions, and under many plant management regimes.
the group also celebrated cinco de mayo with lots of food.
eddie vita, president of the pagosa springs chapter of the association presented the check to dow director bruce mccloskey.
danielle pajak earned the special award for the highest all-around in the second session with a high score of 37.60.
- tuesday, dec. 5, 3:30 p.m., what many consider the biggest gift of the season - a full moon rises between the spires at sunset.
while in elementary school, she fed my habit with regular trips to the library and she never discouraged long saturday mornings spent in bed finishing up a sci-fi, fantasy or adventure novel.
counts as one trip, as does the present, multi-day sacramento conference.
scrapbooking club the pagosa community scrapbook club met last saturday and they were hard at work on their projects.
by sue diffee special to the preview the pagosa springs community choir will present its fourth annual spring concert - "i'm gonna sing" - friday, may 12 and saturday, may 13, at 7 p.m., and sunday, may 14, at 4 p.m.
will it be rushed through annexation now?
there will be development here.
kids' programs special to the preview why is water important?
rather than rushing around after work or on a lunch hour to reach a  potentially distant precinct polling place, madrid said voters can now vote at  any vote center location.
trujillo spent 11 months on the front lines, "living in trenches and bunkers," and witnessing ravages of war that are difficult for him to speak of, even 50 years later. "to this day, i don't watch war movies," stated trujillo.
need a place to have a party or meeting?
psac is excited to announce a special art camp, photolearn®, july 17-20 for youngsters ages 5-10.
due to nature's unpredictability there is no guarantee you'll enjoy a  moonrise between the spires, even at a scheduled event during the second half  of a year.
the $50 award was for her mixed media work, "seed pod" an organic floral structure made of cardboard, fiber pulp and packing tape.
i was sorry for our seniors to have their season end, but we will dedicate next year to them."
while  confidant he'll reach his goal, he admits to lagging behind at this point,  although some of the program's top supporters have yet to remit promised  allocations.
he  believes runoff will have come and gone by then, and the fish will have time to  settle in to their new surroundings before the height of 2006 tourism, which  should be the week of july 4.
donations have increased steadily each year, with those of the 2005  season totaling $6,123.
county administrator bob campbell said leist had submitted his resignation to county officials roughly two weeks prior, but had agreed to stay at his post until completion of the land use code adoption process in june.
they put signs up in fields along the highways.
gerard williams gerard "jerry" reese williams was born on october 9, 1957 in akron, ohio.
tables, chairs, a portable stage, a dance floor and audiovisual equipment are available, too.
trained as an  actress at new york university, and receiving her m.f.a. in film directing from  the american film institute, she has worked as an actress in theatre and  television, including a role last march in "skins," the acclaimed  production at la mama e.t.c. in new york city.
new summer hours the community center's summer hours started monday, may 1.
for more information call kurt laverty, 264-5548, or herb stipe, 731-2401.pagosa springs recreation register for softball and park fun by tom carosello sun columnist the pagosa springs recreation department will accept team registrations for the 2006 adult men's and coed softball leagues beginning monday, may 15.
i have become their friend.
designated hitter karl hujus, still nursing a sore ankle, reached first on a passed ball for pagosa to open the second inning, but rodriquez sent three more pirates down in order.
an exterior door at the adobe  building, 475 lewis st., was kicked in and a suspect or suspects entered the  building.
in his pulitzer prize winning bestseller "guns, germs, and steel" (1997), jared diamond examined how western civilization developed the techniques to dominate much of the world.
- livestock farmers exhibiting and selling alpacas, llamas, sheep, goats,  scottish highlander cattle, yak and fuzzy french lops.
and on and on and on and, maybe worst of all, there is the clown who demands the attendant run and check an item on the shelf because the u-scan machine did not credit an alleged discount.
it was also a great reminder of how  important it is for all of us to keep the traditions that were started 25 years  ago alive in our community.
phase two: construct block building to house all adoptable animals.
i no longer have children at home.
and through all the chaos  and occasional strife, she rarely lost her cool.
the new land use code is how we will  steer toward our future.
saturday, you can enjoy a full day of activities.
when galls are easily found, they can be harvested and spread to new areas.
in the net score division, doe stringer was first with eight 5s, second was carole howard with six, and tied for third were jundy horky and sandy bish, each with five.
they were also to oversee snowplowing operations conducted by a private contractor working under a required special use permit issued by the forest service, who owns the road.
the coach added, "rodriquez was pitching a great game and (monte) was hitting the ball well, but we kept our poise and didn't let up.
as a result, the pagosa ranger district received several calls from angry citizens who passed through the gate, only to find it closed and locked upon their attempted departure.
he tours relentlessly, often accompanying these acts as well as three twins (former subdudes) and leftover salmon.
the plans for phase two, which are now complete, will meet the projected animal sheltering needs for the next 10 years and allow for future expansion.
enterprise zone marketing funds have come to us through region 9 economic  development district of southwest colorado, and it is their report that helps  demonstrate the value of the festival.
nevertheless, traffic related to three  separate construction projects has continued since the original gate closure,  and forest officials insist resulting road damage would have been severe under  normal winter precipitation patterns.
we realize that many recipients encountered problems in purchasing prescription drugs under the new program after they were enrolled and we applaud their perseverance as we at the den worked with the pharmacies, insurance companies and medicare to resolve problems.
- knitters, crocheters, weavers, and felters demonstrating how to utilize the finished yarn.
we need to plan ahead in order to have enough dessert for everyone.
as the weather starts to warm up, this is a perfect time to get your family out, involved and together for a day of activities, music and dinner.
register by april 17 and receive $10 discounts on each session!
if you are interested in joining the council, we meet as a group once  a month, on the second wednesday of the month at the chamber of commerce  meeting room during the lunch hour.
- consider a bear-proof dumpster - if not available, ask your trash-removal  company for options.
remember, the town cannot remove or pick up hazardous materials and motors,  and freon must be removed from all refrigerators prior to pickup.
233, for details as restrictions apply (drought conditions may  restrict this program).
i think that is why i  liked the work of ha rhin kim - because i'm not exactly sure how the artist  achieved the technique.
the setting of the book is the area that is now northern new mexico and southern colorado, including chimney rock.
they will also have to closely monitor the gate, and agree to a seasonal suspension of all construction traffic and any unauthorized access.
common law marriages are recognized by the va with certain documentation and statements.
with the commissioners' may 2 approval, early voting will commence when madrid receives the ballots - roughly 30 days prior to either election.
if you are interested in joining archuleta seniors, inc., memberships are available for folks age 55 and over and can be purchased at the den for $5 mondays and fridays from 9 a.m.-1:30 p.m. and 9-11 tuesdays and wednesdays.
we also welcome back wolf creek interiors with steve vaile, susan day and their capable staff.
contest winners will be selected by age categories: preschool-6, 7-10, and 10 and older.
- tribal identification card.
the  voters approved a cap of $12 million, so we have to build smart, and the  architect's design has to be very specific to reduce the need for later  changes.
according to the convention schedule posted on the national association of  counties web site, the convention does not officially start until may 10,  although the conference does offer an optional may 9 agriculture/rural affairs  field trip.
h1, h2, j1, j2, f1, f2, etc. requires verification of colorado employment or education.
dates are june 27 through aug. 4 with a final  "rewards party" on aug. 9.
however, the planning commission's unanimous approval serves only as a  recommendation, and the question will be put to the board of county  commissioners for final approval at 9 a.m. may 23 in the south conference room  of the pagosa springs community center.
" the town police department will issue notices to anyone who has junk or  litter on their premises after clean-up week.
excessive moisture appears to be one of the environmental factors that limits their establishment.
environmental damage.
there will be a reorganizational meeting for the spanish fiesta club on wednesday, may 17, at the community center at 6:30 p.m.
and for both, proponent and opponent  alike, it was an historic moment in archuleta county history.
this uniquely american dance form has roots that go way back, and beginning classes are held at the methodist church fellowship hall 5:30 p.m. wednesdays.
as seen in the accompanying photo, the key ring is distinctive and could be easily identified and linked to the individual who dropped it.
regardless, this movie is a wonderful family film, and is one of the most beautiful animated features from 2005 you'll see.
a cash beer and wine bar will also be available.
campbell said following an escalation of personal pressures, leist opted to  leave last week but would be available by phone during monday's meeting.
with similar results.
immediately following the service, there will be a time for fellowship with the family and friends.
friday, may 12 - enchilada pie, lettuce and tomato, yellow squash, pineapple tidbits and whole wheat bread.
"the timing is perfect," said pretenders  president susan garman.
trained as an actress at new york university, and receiving her m.f.a. in film directing from the american film institute, she has worked as an actress in theatre and television, including a role last march in "skins," the acclaimed production at la mama e.t.c. in new york city.
and, based on the current condition of the district's emergency medical services fleet, board members felt the need was more immediate.
wirt and graves, so the story went, had gone to washington and obtained an outright grant.
according to water district documents, the dry gulch reservoir would be constructed about two miles east of pagosa springs and south of u.s. 160.
we can never forget them; they return year after year to support the efforts of our local chamber of commerce.
framing is required on all work submitted, except those works specifically intended to be unframed.
a meeting is set for may 23 in pagosa springs at the pagosa junior high  school library, with focus on the pagosa ranger district and blm lands.
he is very well known for his work on many homes in our area.
" classes and their instructors are as follow: improvisation will be taught by jon bernard, a graduate of the pacific  conservatory for the performing arts in californian bernard also studied the  sanford meisner approach to acting for several years.
solutions to their winter woes.
pagosa reads! continues this week with the "people of the moon" book discussion group at the library at 3 p.m. saturday, may 13.
there will be activities for preschool through grade six in "paws,  claws, scales and tales" and there will be a separate series of programs  for teens called "creature features."
the choir size varies from 65 to 95 local volunteers under the direction of  pam spitler and larry elginer, accompanied by melinda baum.
for cancer patients needing transportation for cancer treatment, the american cancer society provides free roundtrip transportation to durango.
the interest in spinning, weaving, knitting, etc. is already here, and is growing by leaps and bounds.
public participation is encouraged at the may 23, adoption hearing.
cost is $10 for all three days.
musical selections - "i am being woven" and "may you always have a song" - were adjudicated by dr. galen darrough, vocal department chair at the university of northern colorado, and mike kornelsen, director of choral activities at metropolitan state college.
this uniquely  american dance form has roots that go way back, and beginning classes are held  at the methodist church fellowship hall 5:30 p.m. wednesdays.
the quirky quartet then began touring throughout the northeast and rapidly developed a fiercely loyal, all-ages following.
chuck bob at the movies
he recommends "bear-proofing" your property by removing items a bear might consider potential food sources such as bird feeders, pet food left outside or unsecured trash cans.
it will enable us to guide what kind of growth we have and where.
some might call her trust naiveté, yet my mother had confidence in the better side of human nature.
the main workshop is limited to 10 students.
as always, the choir is pleased to provide free admission for this program as its gift to the community.
highland springs developers want a road coming into  alpha from behind the grade school area.
according to water district documents, the dry gulch reservoir would be  constructed about two miles east of pagosa springs and south of u.s. 160.
new this year: - fiber arts competition: fiber artists will enter their prize creations, offering the public a view of wonderfully handcrafted pieces of clothing and home accessories.
the issue receiving the most attention in last week's election was the upper san juan health service district ballot issue a, which asked registered voters if district debt should be increased by $12 million (with a repayment cost of $33.5 million) to pay for construction of a new critical access hospital (cah) in pagosa springs.
maybe an attorney needs to check to see if what they are doing is truly legal.
"and so does bayfield and centauri.
for more information, contact me at the den, 264-2167.
in the past, being in an overlay district meant extra regulation and no net benefit to the landowner.
volunteers are needed for this year's program.
but she always gave me room to roam, she  let me discover, sometimes through hard knocks, who it is that i would  ultimately become.
i brewed a pot and we sat around sipping and talking for an hour then went to bed.
darned good, simple food and wine.
tickets purchased at the door will be $8.
choir members include soprano i: hope forman, johanna laverty, mariah  mondragon, johanna patterson and breanna voorhis; soprano ii: madelyn davey,  alex fortney, melinda fultz, brooke hampton, abby hicklin, desi pastin, shannon  rogers and lark sanders; alto: leslie baughman, megan davey, kitman gill, ami  harbison and jordyn morelock.
the den provides home-delivered meals to qualifying homebound individuals who want the benefits of a nutritional lunch.
the plans for phase two, which are now complete, will  meet the projected animal sheltering needs for the next 10 years and allow for  future expansion.
odd that this paving  project now goes to a point just beyond where developers want that second  entrance to come through.
increase your benefit package without increasing your cost and let uncle sam help.
it's simply implied that she could be one.
to date in 2000, 11.25 acres was purchased in the cloman industrial park and paid  for by two private donors.
while my father taught me the patience required to stalk trout, my mother taught me patience with others.
we opted for the full-day excursion, and true to form we sat in the open car in the chill of the early morning, eating pastries and sipping espressos.
it is something that must addressed.
may 15 - preregistration discount deadline for psac photolearn® classes and kids' camp in july.
once, during a separate visit, we returned home around midnight after an  evening out, and both craved a cup.
- yarn competition: fiber artists will enter hand-spun yarns of every style, color and natural material imaginable, in either advanced or novice classes.
a second burglary was reported may 1 and maxwell said officers believe the  incident at the antler shed, 150 e. pagosa st., occurred sunday, april 30.
accepted work may be picked up after the show on july 18 , 11 a.m.-5 p.m.
it was simply masterful execution.
start at 11 a.m. in town park, where there will be games, face painting, flowers and plants just in time for mother's day, clowns, storybook characters, food and much more.
for more information, contact seeds of learning at 264-5513.
activities at a glance friday, may 12 - qi gong, 10 a.m.; bridge lessons, 11 a.m., sign up at the den; gym walk, 11:15 a.m.; mother's day party, noon; bridge 4 fun, 12:30 p.m.; last day to sign up for casino.
- out-of-state issued photo driver's license or photo identification card expired less than 1 year.
additional information is also available on our web site, www.archuletacountyeducationcenter.com.
"if vote center's work, we'll stick with three and have a back-up (dre)"
items don't need to be new, and can be in the form of a service to be auctioned off.
call the parks and recreation office at 264-4151, ext.
the commission also heard a presentation by the dow staff regarding the use of an explosive device to control burrowing animals in areas where they are causing damage.
for additional information on the dances, contact siri at 731-9670, mercy at 264-4152, our decorations chairman, pam stokes, at 731-1284, or our food chairman, suzy bruce, at 731-1211.
the organization secures a permanent location for the thrift store on pagosa street.
all kinds of volunteers are needed, such as women dressed in early 1800s costumes; groups to perform short, funny melodramas; or businesses to sell souvenirs and gifts.
remember, the people of the moon art contest deadline is may 22.
bindweed mite feeding causes the formation of gall-like growth of plant leaves.
new regs could be an intrusive inconvenience effective may 15, 2006, the archuleta county clerk and recorder's office  will implement a new policy mandated by colorado department of revenue.
however, as long as the forest service holds its commitment, landowners continue their resolve, and the county remains engaged, most agree, answers are forthcoming.
said the college professor quite profoundly, "such rawness in a student is a shame.
the veteran's service discharge form should be kept in a safe location accessible to the veteran and next of kin or designated representative.
call 264-4152.senior news get to know your senior center and programs
for more information, contact musetta at 264-2167.
gandalf murphy's music is not  only uplifting and empowering, but fun.
this year's pqfp details are still being worked out, like how many  deliveries it can actually afford, and how many pounds of very large, large and  medium-sized fish each delivery will include.
the leader of the lodge is called master of the lodge for the  same reason the leader of an orchestra is called the concert master, or a  highly skilled electrician is called a master electrician, or the leader of a  scout troop is called a scoutmaster.
if there was bear activity in your  neighborhood last year, you'll need to be extra careful this year, as bears  will return to the same locations where they have been successful finding food  in the past.
the coach recognized that freshmen walsh and kyle brookins had a great day.
he is passionate in his belief that "acting stems from instinct and tuition."
collectively, the board hopes it won't need the $2 million, but hopkins  suggested construction costs are rising rapidly, and the money will be  available if necessary.
the first official public viewing since the rediscovery of the local major  lunar standstill (mls) phenomena at chimney rock archaeological area, by  astronomer dr. j. mckim malville in 1988, was a success, according to victoria  white, mls program administrator for the chimney rock interpretive association  (cria).
in the past, electors voted at a polling place based on their place of residence.
campers in grades six to eight meet 10:15 a.m. to 12:15 p.m.
pagosa springs received a first-place chapter award for providing items on  a "wish list" for children's hospital and advisor dorothy christine  was recognized for her 15 years of service to colorado fbla and her impending  retirement.
this thought came to me when i was reflecting on mother's day and time spent together during one of her more recent visits.
- the gravel road servicing the animal shelter is in poor shape most of the  year and impassible during periods of rain and snow.
and, as woody guthrie once said:  "it's not enough for a song to be good, it must be good for  something."
nothing respectful about  bootjack management's last-minute request to increase density in a residential  area.
while staying with howl, sophie learns of the agitation and struggle he faces with having to hide from the witch of the wastes' henchman, and to avoid serving on both sides in a war against two neighboring nations over the mysterious disappearance of a prince.
bring your own drum, and if you do  not have one, various percussion instruments will be available.
ready  for this - $6 a gallon, u.s. dollars.
rodriquez slammed what appeared to be the game-winning home run over the left-center field fence in the bottom of the 10th.
the staff at country hearth and home are experts in natural gas and propane fueled fireplaces, stoves and inserts.
once again, the fiber festival supports that  priority by providing the small livestock farmers a venue to promote their  products, thus making a rural lifestyle economically feasible.
donations have increased steadily each year, with those of the 2005 season totaling $6,123.
they are lessons  that guide me through the day.
for more information and registration, call me at 264-4486 (or visit www.wendysaunders.com and pagosa-arts.com).
by then, if all goes well, some  1,700 pounds of large catchable trout will have been introduced to various  sections of river between the apache street bridge and the conoco station near  the intersection of u.s. 160 and u.s. 84.
do boards of directors use a ritual in opening and  closing their meeting?
coach charlie gallegos moved casey hart to third base and cody bahn to second.
winners in these respective leagues will be announced in next week's parks and recreation column.
deb and lance are moving from their cramped apartment because deb is expecting twins.
we're not opposed to water storage and we're not opposed to a reservoir at dry gulch, but this project is extremely expensive and ties up way too much water," said drew peternell, an attorney for trout unlimited.
the commissioners heard testimony to expand the number of small game species that can be legally taken.
then, for those who wish to be admitted (and have not proven their expertise to the staff's satisfaction), a test.
this will be a dinner and dance fund-raiser for all, but especially for hunters.
"many people do not realize that a  few simple precautions can minimize the chance of unwanted encounters with  bears.
if you expect the bindweed to disappear shortly after releasing the mites, you will be disappointed.
and here is my favorite: passing school zone, take it slow let our little shavers grow.
the end of the successful premier school year for tierra alta schools is  almost here, including end-of-the-year projects, trips and activities.
it would consist of widening the main business block street by filling in the river and straightening and deepening the channel.
according to campbell, schiro had left town to attend the national association of counties (naco) western interstate region conference in sacramento, calif.
team registration fees are $250, plus a $25 fee per player.
the story is centered around sophie (voiced by emily mortimer, "match  point"), a young girl working in her father's hat shop, who has a chance  encounter with a handsome and mysterious stranger with a gift of magic, named  howl (voiced by christian bale, "batman begins").
in many cases, establishment may take a full growing season.
this policy requires all motor vehicle transactions to be accompanied by any department of revenue accepted form of secure and verifiable identification.
- our savior lutheran church, 56 meadows dr. at the intersection of west  u.s. 160 and meadows drive.
the teams surge into the first round of the playoffs, emerging out of similar leagues and schedules.
karl isberg broccoli?
women who, like myself, appeared to be sleepwalking through life in a state of quiet panic.
for more information call heather hunts, program director, at 731-1146.
white urged those interested in  participating in these programs to read the full cancellation policy on the web  site.
for several weeks, we have been reporting from accounts of the life of emmet wirt, credited with saving the jicarilla apache nation from starvation and helping that people convert from a hunting-gathering economy to a body self sufficient in today's economy.
it's illegal to feed bears in colorado - in addition to being bad for the bear;  you will be ticketed and fined.
she taught  me to trust what people say, to give people the benefit of the doubt, that  people are generally good and forthright, that they are honorable until proven  otherwise.
"the u.s. is a nation of immigrants and their descendants; several artists refer explicitly to their immigrant heritage, while other draw on native heritage," chancey wrote in her juror's statement.
has he looked at the salaries and golden parachutes of other ceos nationwide, besides oil executives?
following a may 2 decision by the archuleta county board of county  commissioners, voters countywide will now cast their ballots at one of three  new vote centers, rather than the usual precinct polling places.
it will provide a voluntary opportunity to get greater value out of your land by keeping it agricultural.
carrie patterson placed third in the all-around, first on bars and third on vault, bars and floor.
for example, the beginning class covers only the basics of e-mail.
in goes a tablespoon of chicken demi-glace and i set the mess to simmer.
juror jill chancey, curator of the lauren rogers museum of art in laurel,  miss., said of echterhoff's sculpture: "i like this because it is a  floral, but it's scruffy.
a pid would then establish a continual tax on the same residents, which would offset annual county costs of maintaining the road.
physical requirements for each trip differ, but limitations are always provided.
of our 65th wedding anniversary, which we observed march 21, 2006.
high school art the pagosa springs high school advanced art students show "in the park" is currently on display at the psac town park gallery, and can be seen through may 17.
perhaps immigration is on many artists' minds, or perhaps in the difficult challenge of trying to rank diverse works of art, she grabbed at a theme and used it to award prizes.
the most incredible aspect of the animation in the film is the combination  of computer-generated animation and cell animation used to bring the howl's  castle to life.
at noon, april merilee will share an interactive children's story titled, "swimming lessons."
come to the seeds of learning playin' in the park celebration and look for  us by the straw bale seating area.
how a community treats its  lost and homeless pets is a factor in its lifestyle rating.
five children of civil war veterans still draw va benefits.
i've kept both book and booklet all these years.
throughout her life, joan had the gift of volunteering for schools, church and community services.
the final regulations will be considered at the july commission  meeting.
bears are generally shy and usually avoid humans, but their need for food and sense of smell often draws them to human residences.
the association uses the money for its own mule deer enhancement programs throughout the state.
2008-2009 - phase three of shelter project.
the region 9 report-2003 tells us that "economic diversification is a high priority for the region."
at one point, when the gate was left open, forest employees say unauthorized off-road traffic caused significant resource damage to the surrounding environment.
this year's pqfp details are still being worked out, like how many deliveries it can actually afford, and how many pounds of very large, large and medium-sized fish each delivery will include.
he tours relentlessly, often accompanying these acts as well  as three twins (former subdudes) and leftover salmon.
in november, the second phase will make $2 million available, but the district will not take possession until sometime in 2007, depending on need.
"the  passage" is a bronze sculpture of a female head representing the ocean and  atop her head is a boat and in the boat is an armored man riding the waves.
next week, tierra alta schools is anticipating two major events; graduation and the end-of-the-year overnight field trip.
yoga in motion works to free up your joints.
pagosa can score too, however, (laurel reinhardt has 24 goals on the season) and the pirate defense should be a big factor in friday's match.
i was  used to that, but the book made the feeling of love of country more so.
"we're asking our current supporters to twist arms, sweet talk,  and beg other business owners or fishermen for their support." cano said the cost of each delivery is expected to rise this year, but the  hatchery supplying the fish, river bend trout farm of monte vista, is also a  program donor and provides certified disease-free trout at reduced rates.
chapter 11 of the municipal code of the town of pagosa springs defines junk and outlines procedures for abating junk.
according to cano, that amount allowed the stocking of 159 pounds of 10- to 12-pound cutbows, 502 pounds of three- to five-pound rainbows, 450 pounds of 14- to 18-inch rainbows, and 200 pounds of 11- to 14-inch rainbows.
free entertainment will begin saturday at 11 a.m. in town park with a special story discussion and dramatization presented by barb draper from the sisson library.
with garcia's words, applause rang out in the commissioners' meeting room and much handshaking and backslapping ensued.
trujillo remembered friends of years past with a wistfulness in his voice.
the silver foxes den strives to enhance the health and well being of the  lives of the senior citizen population of archuleta county through a variety of  means.
- knitters, crocheters, weavers, and felters demonstrating how to utilize  the finished yarn.
i'd like to think i've absorbed some of that from her, and that patience is an integral part of who i am today.
"the guys at the warehouse have been shorting me on eggplant for three days," says the section manager.
the trails plan includes many miles of future trails in the community, details community needs and desires based on public input forums, trail design and criteria, trail locations and priorities and timelines for trail construction.
by anna harbison special to the preview seventeen members of the dolce cantare choir, one of two pagosa springs  children's chorale choirs, traveled to denver last weekend to compete with  nearly 1,700 young musicians from seven states at "music in the  parks.
april's presentation will incorporate music and  movement with lots of audience participation.
there must be; if growth continues, we will need them.
that is why i applaud the bocc and planning commission, not only for their  incredibly hard work in creating and enacting the land use code, but also for  including scenic and wildlife overlays and transfer of development rights (tdr)  language in the code.
the kids at first baptist church will eliminate their own contestants and choose the american ideal, 7 p.m., sunday, may 21, at the first baptist church worship center.
this project has always seemed like a quality community trail proposal but  the catch is there is no federal or local funding for trail construction with  this project.
trujillo helped himself in the first extra inning by beating out a hard shot that bounced off the pitcher's leg.
the center needs your participation to make these efforts successful.
a new 24-port switch has been ordered and is on the way.
the major lunar standstill viewings are sponsored by the chimney rock  interpretive association, inc., in partnership with the usda forest service,  san juan national forest, pagosa ranger district.
through fund-raisers and donations, money is raised to provide medical assistance to seniors in need, and to provide transportation, equipment and activities.
the improvisation class will offer creative activities to inspire young actors to develop characters and relationships with other characters on stage.
a beautiful animated feature for the family by charles streetman preview columnist i thought that i'd take another look back and bring more attention to a little-known and overlooked animated film that was the runner up for the oscar for best animated feature at this year's academy awards - "howl's moving castle," based on the novel by author dianna wynn jones.
it was like a scene from houston's mission control, but instead of neil  armstrong's voice announcing the safe touchdown of a lunar lander, it was the  voice of larry garcia, chair of the archuleta county planning commission,  announcing successful completion of stage one in the approval process for the  county's revised land use code and zoning program.
he then went through radiation and was going to start his third treatment of chemo.
nothing respectful about the town going ahead with plans showing ranches swallowed up, homes gone, or businesses no longer there.
their much-celebrated newest release "flapjacks from the sky" has garnered high praise from music writers, sparked generous activity at radio stations across the country, and continues to invoke wave after wave of enthusiastic response from music fans worldwide.
this 1-percent penalty does not affect those who turn 65 after may 15 and enroll in the medicare prescription drug program at the same time they enroll in medicare.
if you haven't been to one of our monthly dance program you're missing a great, fun evening.
participants are also paying for the program itself, which  will occur unless weather conditions are deemed unsafe.
there will be one or more tables reserved for singles as the need arises.
with a packed agenda for its monthly meeting, the pawsd board rapidly  advanced through the first several items with minimal discussion, and it  appeared progress would be swift and complete.
the spanish fiesta club  gives three scholarships to local high school students annually.
the festival is also now permanently settled into the memorial day weekend date, may 27-28.
coach gallegos brought richey in to relieve trujillo and sophomore cole kraetsch went to right field.
poster board and other materials  will be furnished.
for movement and  texture i liked "annexation of control" by jennifer peel, tyler,  texas, graphite and latex paint on paper mounted on canvas.
2001 - initiation of behavior and temperament testing of potential adoptable animals.
one of the biggest challenges of an animal shelter is to avoid cross contamination of new animals arriving with current residents or having to move an aggressive 130-pound dog from one kennel to another for cleaning.
ever wonder why the tickets to disney world are so high?
he loves to tell his many family members about growing up in colorado.
formed four corners animal resource entities with 12 other animals groups in the surrounding area to collaborate on animals challenges and successes.
- maren rubino, operations director, (303) 205-5607.
reception to follow at the gurule's residence.
for further workshop and supplies information, call pierre mion at 731-9781 or visit www.pagosa-arts.com.
winners in the gross division were lynne allison, first with eight 5s, and cherry o'donnell, barbara sanborn, jane day and sue martin all tied for second place, each with seven.
once at the vote center, electors will present their documents to election  officials, and a ballot containing all pertinent questions relating to where  the elector lives, such as questions regarding special taxation districts, will  be produced.
and i kept coming back to "unified theory of forces" by nancy pollock, santa fe, a layered canvas of oil paint with a tree in a box on the left side of the canvas and mathematical formulas peeking through layers of paint are.
when your joints are too tight, you can't move freely.
"if they get their handoffs down, hopefully, they'll qualify this weekend.
" with tearful eyes he watched her suffer and saw her fade away, although we loved her dearly we could not make her stay.
when asked what affect rising costs could have on the hospital project,  hopkins said, "if costs go up considerably, we'll start cutting.
while my father taught me to trust the strength of a well-tied knot, of  good tackle and my instincts, my mother taught me to trust others.
no border crosser or usa b1/b2 visa/bcc cards.
they also were awarded the judges' over-all trophy, acknowledging their musical achievement in their division, which included seven public school choirs from colorado springs, gilpin county, leadville, alamosa, casper, cheyenne and laramie.
craig schutz is the iml champ, with a throw of 146-11.
ok, i buy two zucchini (4223), two yellow squash (same code), a red bell pepper (4088), a head of garlic (4608), a white onion (4663), greens (4825) and a can of garbanzo beans.
the music of slambovia has been described as "hillbilly-floyd, folk-pop," "alt-country roots-rock" and "surreal americana."
you have three days before mother's day, sunday, to do something truly meaningful for your mother to appreciate the selfless love she offered to you and to understand the "other" existence she forwent in order to be the mom she was.
i suppose, given the name of the show, "gateway to imagination," i was hoping for more works that challenged existing concepts and ideas, for works that pushed the boundaries.
the story is centered around sophie (voiced by emily mortimer, "match point"), a young girl working in her father's hat shop, who has a chance encounter with a handsome and mysterious stranger with a gift of magic, named howl (voiced by christian bale, "batman begins").
two pshs students headed to national competition thirty-two pagosa springs high school future business leaders of america members traveled to vail april 22-25 to attend the fbla state leadership conference where they competed with nearly 3,000 other fbla students from across the state.
club pro and manager  alan schutz said, "this has become an annual event we all look forward to.
goodman outlined the district's current financial status, which reflected  $296,375 cash on hand at the end of march, and approval of a request for  district manager pat haney to become a signatory on usjhsd expenditure checks  up to $5,000 generated a lengthy exchange.
chimney rock tour our final event for pagosa reads! is a special tour of chimney rock led by glenn raby, 10 a.m. saturday, june 3.
so, my suggestion would be to call and leave your name and phone number in case we have an opening.
donations sought for fish stocking project by chuck mcguire staff writer fishing in the san juan river through pagosa springs is about to improve dramatically.
jerry was an avid fisherman and hunter.
this comment comes from her: "we are currently featuring the electric slide, tush push, black velvet, new york new york, a waltz and a cha cha.
it really helped me in life, and to understand what was happening in the world.
- the commission heard testimony on a proposal to restrict collection of  antler sheds on public lands only from april 1 through dec. 31, starting in  2007.
no one has the right to drastically change the value of your property to benefit a developer's pocket.
active service means full-time service, other than active duty for training, as a member of the army, navy, air force, marine corps, coast guard, or as a commissioned officer of the public health service, environmental science services administration or national oceanic and atmospheric administration, or its predecessor, the coast and geodetic survey.
drive one block to  peregrine place, turn left, and the karas house is at 160 peregrine place, the  second driveway on the left - a cream-colored, earth-berm passive solar  structure.
mr. ash is a graduate of pagosa springs high school, the university of colorado at colorado springs, and earned his master's degree in architecture from the university of colorado at denver.
pirates finished one-two in the 400.
in this program, contestants discover it's not about being first, trying to  outdo each other or exalting themselves, but it's about living lives of  humility and service.
"fishermen can walk to the river and catch big fish, while their families shop local stores, and they can all meet for lunch." don't disturb the swans
some developers go through the right  motions, but maybe that is just that š motions and lip service.
find out more on our  new web site, elationarts.org hand drumming classes are forming now.
right now, is the best time to walk your property and remove any bear  attractants from sight and smell," said bob davies, a senior biologist  with the dow.
call 731-1729.people cards of thanks reinglass dear twin creek (glenwood court/walnut place)
lose, and the season is over.
two years ago, we decided a four corners road trip would be a good way to spend time together while seeing the country.
he interviewed family members, dug into archives and talked with comanche elders.
the wildlife commission also heard a presentation from the dow staff regarding recommended restrictions on the taking of prairie dogs.
a response to critics of freemasonry by bob case special to the sun most of the issues surrounding freemasonry deal with language, in one way or another.
a beautiful animated feature for the family by charles streetman preview columnist i thought that i'd take another look back and bring more attention to a  little-known and overlooked animated film that was the runner up for the oscar  for best animated feature at this year's academy awards - "howl's moving  castle," based on the novel by author dianna wynn jones.
they will also have to closely monitor the gate, and  agree to a seasonal suspension of all construction traffic and any unauthorized  access.
surprisingly, chancey chose few other works that could be considered abstract expressionism for the gateway show.
all sessions will be held at the arts room in the pagosa springs community center.
new regs could be an intrusive inconvenience effective may 15, 2006, the archuleta county clerk and recorder's office will implement a new policy mandated by colorado department of revenue.
you can also arrange to have junk vehicles removed from your property by calling druex williams at town hall at 264-4151, ext.
the loss - in stolen items and damage - is estimated at $3,000.
until the means are in hand to deal with large-scale development (and, here, we are not talking about several downtown lots, but rather about hundreds of units, on major acreage) all such projects should be put on hold.
the main thing to know about our sled was that it had no brakes.
menu suggested donation $3 for ages 60-plus and kids 12 and under; all others $5.
in the 1950s-1960s, the o'dell brothers started a business making shaving cream.
most of these trips are limited to 18 people.
according to the committee's report, the cost of geothermal heat will remain fairly constant, while natural gas prices may triple in the next four years.
the vining plant produces an extensive root system that stores enough nutrients to fuel extensive growth.
lauren white golf tournament saturday former pagosa springs residents cindy, burly and chris white wanted to find  some way to pay special tribute to their daughter and sister, lauren, following  her tragic death in a 2002 automobile accident.
in 1981, ovie and his wife of 57 years, joan, moved to pagosa springs, where they dedicated their lives to their family, the community, and serving the lord.
- the gravel road servicing the animal shelter is in poor shape most of the year and impassible during periods of rain and snow.
are those plans on tamra's desk?
a pre-bedtime nap gives you that boost of energy needed to finish that last chapter, that last quilting square, or that last paragraph of a writing project, before you seriously head for bed somewhere around 3 a.m.
the service begins at 10:30 a.m. in the pagosah unitarian universalist  fellowship hall, unit 15, greenbriar plaza.
the mylar provides a vitreous  quality to the opaque areas of paint, which contrasts with the crisp, fine  lines of organic forms that look like the veins of leaves.
highland springs developers want a road coming into alpha from behind the grade school area.
the series of photography photolearn® class sessions is a special opportunity for children to learn with a real working professional.
" o'donnell singled out ormonde for his performances at bayfield.
i brown the patties with a vengeance then pop them into the veggie stew and let them simmer in the goo for 15 or 20 minutes.
eisner of disney was making $23,000 a day when he was their  ceo.
madrid estimates primary election ballots will be available around july 10.
these ladies will represent our community at the archuleta county fair and numerous other activities throughout the year.
- tuesday, dec. 5, 3:30 p.m., what many consider the biggest gift of the  season - a full moon rises between the spires at sunset.
the following are the major issues decided by the commission during the meeting: - the commission approved big-game license numbers for deer, elk, bear, moose, and pronghorn.
right now, is the best time to walk your property and remove any bear attractants from sight and smell," said bob davies, a senior biologist with the dow.
my wife and i just returned from a caribbean cruise.
create a colorful costume with dancer and costume designer carla roberts.
friendly trade partners.
fragment c. astronomers estimate fragment c, will pass closest to earth may 12 at a distance of roughly 7.3 million miles, while the smaller fragments' passage will peak from may 12-28 at a distance of roughly 5.5 million miles - more than 20 times the distance between the earth and moon.
anyone who is interested in buying or selling (or both) on ebay is welcome to attend.
pagosa springs is entering a new phase in its growth and development.
chimney rock archaeological area is the only venue we know of where a  natural observatory frames the view of this lunar phenomena and a public  viewing program has been established for the event.
next week, we'll explore paganism, the meaning of light, salvation by  works, universalism and racial exclusion.
each release will treat 25 acres, and is 75-percent effective in controlling field bindweed after two years.
choir members include soprano i: hope forman, johanna laverty, mariah mondragon, johanna patterson and breanna voorhis; soprano ii: madelyn davey, alex fortney, melinda fultz, brooke hampton, abby hicklin, desi pastin, shannon rogers and lark sanders; alto: leslie baughman, megan davey, kitman gill, ami harbison and jordyn morelock.
education news helping us make a difference by livia cloman lynch preview columnist the archuleta county education center's "making a difference 2006" luncheon was held april 26 in the first baptist church.
white said participants should allow approximately  three hours for the entire program, which is not suitable for children under 12.
overlays and tdrs have been combined as an incentive-only and market-based program to encourage and compensate landowners and developers for preserving some agricultural and open lands.
this sculptor has not only mastered technique and aesthetic, but explores ideas and communicates those ideas to the viewer.
these must be placed along the road right of way.
as with any small or large town humane society there have been many accomplishments and goals have been achieved throughout the years.
the cancer attacked his lung, liver, backbone and brain.
the thief or thieves  stole an antique cash register as well as some knives and belt buckles, among  other items.
local businesses and artists have a unique opportunity to increase their web site and marketing awareness through a series of seminars, sponsored by psac.
in this program, contestants discover it's not about being first, trying to outdo each other or exalting themselves, but it's about living lives of humility and service.
but not in this form, this size, in this place.
zane kraetsch took third with 110-06.
eddie spaghetti will be on hand throughout the day to greet children and sign autographs.
if the home or business owner does not take action to remove the  bear attractants (anything that smells like potential food), it is only a  matter of time before the bear will return.
and he scored on a passed-ball to increase the lead to four.
and i dove into a pair of waders while my bibliophile mother and sister dove into their respective books and hunkered down next to the river wrapped in quilts.
"providing this level of fishing right through town is a real benefit  to the local economy," cano said.
programs include nutritious meals through congregate meal sites, transportation for their activities of daily living, the promotion of socialization through the extended family, life long education and mind and body stimulating activities, and a variety of physical activity.
we are planning several trail days this summer
as established by the board's approval, all three centers are within the  pagosa springs area - none are located in the outlying areas of the county.
the whites believed the tournament was a great way to raise money to supplement what had already been donated, and to keep the scholarship active.
a big thanks goes out to mountain view homemakers for the pillows.
the taos event is now totally  self-supporting with vendors bringing in $50,000-$60,000 in sales.
from now until may 22, youth of all ages (preschool through high school) are encouraged to enter the library's art contest as a part of pagosa reads!
i would like to congratulate the three new winners of the archuleta county fair royalty pageant:
however, a lid would create a one-time tax, or mill  levy, on all affected residents, which would pay to upgrade the road to  acceptable county standards.
"rising on a nearly pitch-black backdrop, the moon was a stark contrast to the rock silhouettes, and everyone was ooohing and aaahing.
pagosa was hoping the third time would be the charm.
the level 4 team placed first in a small session with two other teams.
checks can be mailed to 3576 c.r. 335, pagosa springs, co 81147.
i like the contrast  between subject matter and material.
the bindweed mite feeds only on field bindweed and closely-related wild morning glories.
another highlight of the cruise, which reminded me of how arrogant we americans are, and not just republicans, came at logan international airport in boston.
supervised by county administrator bob campbell, musetta manages various programs and services provided for by local, state and federal agencies.
plainly put: there is a small number of us who possess an innate talent, an inherent ability to manipulate u-scan technology and techniques.
in heavily infested plants, the shoots are misshapen and growth is severely stunted.
now, diamond has written, "collapse," an account of the great civilizations that collapsed and why those that survived did so.
nothing respectful about pushing residents or small business persons around because you want their property.
medical shuttles a shuttle service to durango for medical appointments is available through archuleta county senior services.
now, this is something very different for your next family reunion or birthday party.
the fee will be $90 which includes materials; your registration is confirmed when payment has been made.
the kids at first baptist church will eliminate their own contestants and  choose the american ideal, 7 p.m., sunday, may 21, at the first baptist church  worship center.
however, it sometimes happens that those who requested space in one of the classes are unable to come.
my grandfather has many fond memories of his youth spent in the pagosa springs area.
beginning to advanced classes and individual lessons on guitar, banjo and  mandolin are on the schedule.
be sure to let us know if you plan to come.
rodriquez walked and then jaron came to bat.
january 2002 - new shelter van purchased.
we would  like to recognize and thank all of the wonderful community members who  supported our fund-raising event.
you can also arrange for a gourmet lunch on an elevated platform high above the animas river.
madrid added that electors can only take a ballot for themselves.
chimney rock archaeological area is the only venue we know of where a natural observatory frames the view of this lunar phenomena and a public viewing program has been established for the event.
anyone can perform the workout regardless of body type, age and fitness level.
anyone involved in the non-profit world will understand how this festival depends on the effort and devotion of a few hardworking people, the support and generosity of our community and an occasional grant.
under state statute, and without a county resolution, early voting must begin 10 days prior to the primary election and 15 days prior to the general election.
these girls were the only ones in their age division.
depending on your point of view, this weekend's near-earth passage of comet 73p schwassmann-wachmann 3 (sw3) means either firestorms, tsunamis and the annihilation of humankind, or it is simply another relatively routine astronomical event to add to the astronomical history books.
her second-place winner, "immigrant," by barbara giorgio, selma,  ind., and her third-place winner, "missed fortune," by veronica day,  morris, conn. both explore this theme using photographic techniques.
community choir concerts this weekend
control with herbicides is difficult.
faris sums it up this way: "the story of the jicarilla cannot be divorced from emmet wirt.
korn was the ancestral uncle of scott zesch, a sixth-generation texan who grew up in mason, texas.
give her a call at 731-2398 a few days ahead of your clean-up day and she'll get you all sugared up in the morning.
according to the commissioner's rolling calendar, schiro had scheduled may  8 to travel to the event and may 9 to begin attending the conference.
katie blue competed for the first time and placed fifth in the all-around, second on vault and third on beam, qualifying for the state meet on her first try.
i know that the board, their committees and all the volunteers will now do everything possible to ensure that your trust is rewarded by building and operating the best hospital a small town can have.
a door to an office inside the building was kicked in, but the office was  vacant and nothing was taken.
ticket prices are $10 to psac members and $12 to non-members.
weather date high low precipitation type depth moisture 4/26 66 26 - - - 4/27 68 30 - - - 4/28 59 33 s/r - 4/29 57 24 - - - 4/30 65 27 - - - 5/1 66 29 - - - 5/2 65 35 - - -
another serious encounter, or "second strike," means the bear will be killed.
aruba's gasoline is $3.79 a  gallon, u.s. dollars.
from now until may 22, youth of all ages (preschool through high school)  are encouraged to enter the library's art contest as a part of pagosa reads!
i will keep a calendar of who is going where to coordinate this important program.
a ph.d. candidate, the soon-to-be dr. chancey completed her dissertation on the abstract expressionist painter elaine de kooning.
mother's day mother's day was first suggested in the united states in 1872 by julia ward howe, who wrote the words to the "battle hymn of the republic," as a day dedicated to peace.
today-may 17 - psac pagosa high school student show.
secure and verifiable identification (svi) as defined by the department of revenue is: - any colorado driver's license or colorado identification card expired less than 1 year.
learn to move with grace and poise in beginning middle eastern dance, and  find out why this dance form is so fun and popular today.
why did they fail and other cultures find solutions to their problems and survive?
gateway to imagination is on display through july 15, at the farmington museum and visitor's center at gateway park, 3041 east main street, farmington, n.m. (505) 599-1174.
thank you to the spanish fiesta club for providing great food and entertainment on friday night ... and those mariachis.
what business hasn't experienced a marketing slump?
architectural plans we enlisted the architectural services of animal arts to design a  state-of-the art shelter.
the fiber festival meets that need by supporting the efforts of a growing  cottage industry involved in fiber-related businesses.
in 2004 he had the left side of his lung removed in albuquerque.
i think that is why i liked the work of ha rhin kim - because i'm not exactly sure how the artist achieved the technique.
for more information call 264-4151, ext.
phone number is 247-2214.
she was a stay-at-home mom to ten children who lived in a state of virtual isolation because she couldn't afford any time for herself.
on its subsequent voyage around the sun in 1984-1985, researchers missed the comet again, but on its next journey, astronomers locked it in their sights and have tracked it ever since, including its spectacular 1995 fragmentation.
inside she meets calcifer (voiced by billy crystal, "analyze  that"), a smart-alecky fire demon residing in howl's fireplace.
students relaxed by attending a dance that also gave them the opportunity  mingle with fbla students from other schools.
localslocals mable barber, of pagosa springs, was among adams state college students honored at the annual academic awards presentation march 9.
according to the commissioner's rolling calendar, schiro had scheduled may 8 to travel to the event and may 9 to begin attending the conference.
senior services director musetta wollenweber maintains an office at the den, located in the pagosa springs community center.
voice mail and e-mail are checked regularly, so please leave a message if no one is available in the office.
the geothermal project advisory committee concluded over two years of study with a two-page affirmation of the project.
the program in the united states began by feeding seven seniors, and has since grown to serve millions of elderly, disabled or at-risk persons across the country.
in her house, stacks of books were never clutter.
these are lessons that transcend those learned on river, but they are lessons i apply during every excursion and before every cast.
the code will provide a necessary counterbalance to the tremendous force of development.
according to jackson, reid said the adult swans are nesting on the shore of the lake and should not be disturbed.
the staff was directed to present the issue for future consideration at the commission's july meeting.
thursday evening, u.s. forest service officials met with archuleta county authorities and affected property owners to discuss the successes and failures of last winter's restricted access and snow removal arrangements on mill creek road, and where the group should go from there.
- valid foreign passport with i-94 or valid processed for i-551 stamps; no: b1, b2, wt, wb, cp or nc status.
commissioner ronnie zaday is assigned to represent the county at board meetings.
call today, space is limited.
the pirates finally started hitting in the fifth to score two.
tickets purchased at the door will  be $8.
open to students going into fourth grade, up to 12th-graders, this camp  promises to introduce, challenge and develop acting skills in every age group.
pirates were first and third in discus.
"catastrophic breakups may be the ultimate fate of most comets," said planetary astronomer hal weaver of the john hopkins university applied physics laboratory.
artsline is a communication vehicle of the pagosa springs arts council.
pagosa went three and out in the top of the first inning.
the pagosa hut and trail  system will allow users to take extended overnight trips that include the  turkey springs area, middle mountain, monument park, hotz springs and  connections to the piedra river and devil mountain.
there are between 8,000 and 12,000 bears in colorado and most of them have awakened from their winter hibernation.
this is one of the many free activities offered that day in town park.
she said she was looking for "aesthetic quality and some evidence that the artist was thinking about something when creating the art.
study group members and all interested members of the public are invited to  attend the meetings.
neither lynch nor zaday were aware that schiro serves on a naco agriculture committee.
"this camp is just the sort of thing we need to sustain interest in theatre here in pagosa, and to give kids the tools they need to begin a lifelong enjoyment of the performing arts." registration for the camp is $95 with some scholarships (which pay 50 percent of the cost) available.
he and joan also owned pg's ice cream shop and managed the spring inn for awhile.
for instance, "worshipful" is a term still used today.
punch passes may be purchased as well.
i think we can fight our way back.
horrified, sophie sets out the following day into the wastes to find a  wizard who can break the curse.
the environmental impact - considering this site is, in effect, part of a large drainage and at the entry of one of the major lakes in the area - could have been extreme.
from may 12-28, the comet will pass through the summer triangle and by may 17 will be found to the south and west near the great square of pegasus.
the scored was tied at five.
buy a giant hershey candy bar for a $20 donation and you will be entered into a drawing that will be held may 16 at tierra alta's graduation and awards night.
the season schedule, with gate times, is: - saturday, july 22, 1:30 a.m., a crescent moonrise.
that is why we live there and want to keep it that way.
"she's been to state two times and really wants to go back.
there will be a cash bar with assorted beer, wine and soft drinks for a  nominal charge.
the account number is 624-5002974.
bindweed mites can survive extended drought periods by actively moving to underground buds when plant tops die down.
once a road is put in, they will want to  connect the dots with other roads and keep tearing away at open spaces.
written and directed by one of japan's most gifted and innovative storytellers, hayao miyazaki, "howl's moving castle" continues to prove that studio ghibli is one of the most extraordinary animation studios in japan.
my family was patriotic.
district looks to finance hospital, buy ambulance
for more information, contact garman at 731-2485 before may 15.
students will develop their voices theatrically and musically through the study of breathing techniques, articulation, projection and volume.
we would particularly like to thank all of our table captains for their willingness to sponsor a table and ensure the success of our annual event: jody cromwell, bob eggleston, first southwest bank, ed funk, ann graves, john graves, mark horn, jeff laydon, lora laydon, bob lynch, jackie mcguire, curtis miller, susan neder, jann c. pitcher, glenn raby, malcolm rodger, jack rosenbaum, pagosa springs rotary, jerry sadler, lisa scott, james vincent and sherry waner.
whether raising animals for breeding, sale and fiber production (alpacas, llamas, goats, sheep and rabbits) or working their fibers (spinning, weaving, knitting, felting, designing patterns) to make products for sale, these people are helping to diversify economic activity in the area.
it was a trip, and a morning, i remember fondly to this day.
with the planning commission's approval, a revised set of county land use  regulations, a zoning transition plan and a zoning map are well on their way to  becoming official documents designed to guide growth, development and land use  in archuleta county.
write him a thank you note, mr. dungan, for his part in helping with gasoline conservation.
our first source was j. denton simms, long time pastor of the reformed church in dulce and father of the boy who married wirt's daughter.
but where we end up is still up to us.
bear damage to bird feeders  is a common complaint.
computer networks are finicky things - they frequently require tlc.
"not like we had in korea.
my only solace is the food.
contact the archuleta county education center at 264-2835, or stop by our  office at 4th and lewis streets, for additional information on any of our  programs.
to cast their ballots, voters will have a choice between the familiar paper  ballot or using one of the new voting machines.
new  class starts may 15.
- valid foreign passport with i-94 or valid processed for i-551 stamps; no:  b1, b2, wt, wb, cp or nc status.
for artist's convenience, watercolor kits are available at an additional cost, or students may supply their own materials from mion's minimal supply list.
in 1914, president woodrow wilson made the official announcement proclaiming mother's day as a national holiday that was to be held each year on the second sunday in may.
we are also looking for committee help with the program, food preparation, food serving, etc.
bank of the san juans offers full banking, loan, and investment services.
the adult swans cross the roads to go to other lakes; the four young birds  are old enough to fly but haven't been seen doing this yet.
the end-of-the-year trip will combine fun with  learning about local geology and history, as well as physical activity.
the book inspired love of country in me.
persons interested in judging these shows (or future shows) should contact wen saunders at 264-4486 or pierre mion at 731-9781 for more information.
herman's been involved in the real estate business for nearly 30 years, and we welcome back herman riggs & associates real estate.
evening with the foodies are you one of those people who likes talking about food, trying new recipes - making them or just tasting?
cano said the exact timing of the community project will depend on how soon  the high-country snowmelt and subsequent san juan runoff ends, but he believes,  this season, it'll be sooner rather than later.
"howl's moving castle" did not earn miyazaki his second win.
if you are a psac member and would like to volunteer hours working at the gallery, call psac at 264-5020 for a list of openings.
dessert and coffee will be provided.
if so, maybe you qualify as a foodie.
the moon was full, and so was he.
jaclyn harms finished third in the 3,200, at 12:59.07.
ready for this - $6 a gallon, u.s. dollars.
in honor of mother's day, children will be able to select a plant and make  a card for their mothers.
his last band, ragged mountain, was active on the colorado club scene and festival circuit.
photolearn® is a quick option to educate the average shutterbug and avoid wasted time and errors.
i peel and chunk the squash.
madrid said the new voting machines require about 10 minutes for voters to  cast their ballots.
"our approach to this project has been to see if the know benefits will outweigh any possible disadvantages," the committee report said, "and our answer to that is a resounding yes."
i thought it would be a wonderful surprise for his birthday if a few people from the pagosa springs area would send him a postcard from colorado for his birthday.
the only requirements are a love of singing,  carrying a tune and a dedication to weekly rehearsals.
each time through the u-scan line, the probationer will be videotaped and timed.
and now, as an adult, it comes as no surprise, that in regard to books, my house is much like hers - books on shelves, books stacked on every flat surface and books next to the bed.
any dd 214 with the disclaimer "not to be used for identification" is not acceptable.
they will commence work at the state line this side of chama and work this way through chromo and coyote park to the top of 15 mile hill, a distance of about 20 miles.
due to their relatively fragile nature, astronomers believe comets can be ripped apart by gravitational forces, such as when shoemaker-levy 9 passed near jupiter, or they can fly apart due to the rapid rotation of the nucleus.
a second child is $95 /$125.
town clean-up week may 15-19 to assist citizens in cleaning up the community, the town and other  entities will undertake the following during clean-up week, may 15-19: 1).
these include a variety of restrictions pertaining to off-highway vehicles, camping and dogs at these state wildlife areas: echo canyon, williams creek, lake deweese and gypsum ponds.
the fund was established in 1997 by bill daniels, a pioneer in cable television known for his kindness and generosity to those in need.
thanks to my mother, and perhaps genetics, i can drink the stuff any time of day or night and can sleep without difficulty soon thereafter.
steventon's oil painting of a cow, "standing gaze," was chosen for it's strong, visceral texture and painterly technique.
just as some folks are born to play basketball and others to run the football or do differential equations, there are those of us who are born to pass through u-scan lines like a hot knife through butter.
in the late '50s, he returned to school and graduated with a teaching degree from san diego state college.
rodriquez seemed to be tiring and walked three pirates to load the bases in the top of the sixth, but rebounded with two straight outs to end the inning with three left on.
may 1991 - shelter addition (18x20 foot) completed.
the booklet has to do with initiative and the story is an example of how a message needs to be delivered and one man being recommended for this duty.
throughout the years, trips into the wilderness have helped maintain my  sanity, while coffee, on deadline days at the paper, and throughout college  during test times, has helped keep another part of me sane, and if not sane, at  least functioning.
despite the extravagant animation, this is not miyazaki's best film, especially when compared to some of his most recent masterpieces "spirited away" and "princess mononoke."
we must continue to celebrate our cultures that seem to be slowly getting lost.
if an elector does not receive a  signature card via mail, one can be filled out at the vote center, however  madrid said electors should budget extra time for the procedure.
- original or certified copy of a dd 214 (us military separation papers)
- the septic system, a septic lagoon, is already at capacity and cannot handle a larger load.
if the pirates were the home team and batting last, they probably would have won it ...
we  have many students who want to be involved in theatre, but do not have any  place to acquire the skills to be successful.
i like the contrast between subject matter and material.
she will enjoy free lunches at arboles meal day for the month of may. mystery trips up, up and away you go, but come rain or shine, a jacket will protect you, if you're not afraid of the dark that is.
monday, may 15 - gym walk, 11:15 a.m.; bridge 4 fun, 12:30 p.m. tuesday, may 16 - yoga in motion, 10 a.m.; gym walk, 11:15 a.m.; blood pressure checks, 11:30 a.m.; canasta, 1 p.m., sky ute casino, 1 p.m. wednesday, may 17 - basic computer, 10 a.m.; white cane society, 11 a.m. thursday, may 18 - arboles meal day by reservation, $1 birthday celebrations.
mail-in registrations and placard renewals will not require svi.
in order to expedite our move, the board and the building committee have  decided to proceed in phases.
for additional information on the dances, contact me at 731-9670, mercy at  264-4152, pam stokes at 731-1284, or suzy bruce at 731-1211.
this summer, the council wants to refocus on trail construction and maintenance in the pagosa area.
the fee includes all materials, disposable cameras or film, and image processing.
in addition to providing more space, the new shelter will  keep animals healthier, make animal care easier, offer improved impound and  isolation areas and provide critical rehabilitation space for those needing  time to adjust or heal.
it's too bad there had to be a loser in a game like this.
as a result, the  pagosa ranger district received several calls from angry citizens who passed  through the gate, only to find it closed and locked upon their attempted  departure.
rather than rushing around after work or on a lunch hour to reach a potentially distant precinct polling place, madrid said voters can now vote at any vote center location.
the roundtrip fare is $30 or less, with rates varying depending on the number of passengers.
we try to avoid saying the word,  "old..." before anything else, including the most beautiful scenery one could hope  for, are the people of pagosa which kept us there for nearly 18 years.
comes naturally to us.
thanks to my mother, and perhaps genetics, i can drink the  stuff any time of day or night and can sleep without difficulty soon thereafter.
staff explained that: the device offers a more humane method of killing the animals than the use of poisons; and the device is preferred by certified organic agricultural producers who are prohibited from using certain chemicals on their lands.
another daytime class will be  offered for those who cannot make an evening class.
he worked for curt johnson approximately 17 years, dedicated to doing many tile jobs.
we are looking for people of vision who realize the potential and will work with us to realize that potential.
in honor of mother's day, children will be able to select a plant and make a card for their mothers.
after spending a week in the hospital zellner is home.
temporary resident card, i-688b and i-766 employment authorization card.
features heroes in our midst: carlos trujillo, korean war veteran by kate collins staff writer "i wanted to go in and do my part," said carlos trujillo, a 74-year-old, third-generation pagosa springs native.
the daniels fund operates the daniels scholarship program and the daniels  grants program in colorado, new mexico, utah and wyoming.
bindweed mites survive better in drier settings.
lack of preparation in high school is to blame.
some developers go through the right motions, but maybe that is just that motions and lip service.
he turned around and came closer to me, and i saw that it was waldo archuleta," said trujillo.
"the u.s. is a nation full of immigrants and their descendants; several artist refer explicitly to their immigrant heritage, while other draw on native heritage," chancey wrote in her statement.
- spinners demonstrating how to card, sort and spin fiber.
i have a hankerin' for eggplant parmesan.
pagosa's past wirt held great power south of pagosa country by john motter
the process also  strengthens the skill of verbally sharing insights or questions about the  meditation experience.
venezuela signed an agreement with curacao to provide  crude oil, refine it on the island, and provide their gasoline supply.
it's true my father instilled in me a passion for fishing, but my mother is  largely to blame for everything else.
adult male bears usually emerge from their dens first.
myself, with only two children, 10 years apart, i was able to work full time.
there are too many items being rushed through a broken system without  showing respect to those area residents.
archuleta county clerk and recorder june madrid said part of the push for  vote centers is built on the premise of creating greater convenience for  voters.
call the library (264-2209) for more details.
unfortunately, forest service employees reported numerous occasions over  the winter where the gate was left unlocked or wide open.
monte second baseman david salazar reached base in their half of the second, but was tagged out after a nice pick-off throw from trujillo to guyton.
classes are held at various times and locations.
and fountain valley features a stout defense, putting three consecutive shutouts on the books to date.
they realized a scholarship to a student with special  needs inspires a youngster, giving them a sense that there are those who  believe in them and in their ability to achieve.
the loss sent pagosa home.
we took an island tour  on curacao, and i asked our driver what the price of gasoline was there.
hope you'll put this date on your calendar and join us.
tapping into the popularity of independent musicians that's been fueled to great degree by the internet, indiefest will deliver 10 top-notch sets over two days from a diverse collection of artists.
- the overcrowding of the pets at the shelter causes excessive noise and  high stress on the animals.
while my father taught me how to drink in cold mountain air and the beauty  of a remote wilderness vista, my mother taught me how to drink strong black  coffee - coffee the consistency of roofing tar or creosote - coffee with a  kick.
and, thank you so much, anita.
contact john applegate at 731-9325 for information on this project and to sign up for volunteer work.
if the clerk's office records from the original document they will certify any copies.
his commitment to a personal relationship with jesus christ was an inspiration to each of us.
no one remembers it all, but we have a lot of laughs.
generally, men and women veterans with similar service may be entitled to the same va benefits.
the corporation is served by a board consisting of four officers and eight directors, two of whom must reside in the arboles area.
by karl isberg staff writer pagosa springs police investigators have some interesting evidence from one  of two recent burglaries in town, and are seeking help in identifying possible  suspects.
this year's four-person scramble tournament is set for a 10 a.m. shotgun start saturday, may 13, at the pagosa springs golf club.
dates are changed every year according to federal migratory bird guidelines,  which are published by the federal government in june and july.
i have personally been to every meeting, and the process has been very transparent and responsive to input.
the annual psac juried painting and drawing fine art exhibit will be held at the art gallery in town park, june 29-july 17.
for the backyard, or naked-eye astronomer, viewing sw3's passage presents an opportunity to be a part of astronomical history.
colorado counties are committed to the citizens and customer service.
for additional information, call jim shaffer, 264-2231, ext.
at least the town has made a step in the right direction with passage of its comprehensive plan.
pagosa women open golf season the pagosa women's golf association celebrated the opening day of its season, may 2, by playing 18 holes in the "five alive" format.
may 14 - preregistration savings deadline for psac marketing workshop.
prior to the dance, there will be a catered fajitas buffet with all the trimmings.
"it was a real joy to see someone from my home town.
dumpsters for trash will be located in the following locations: - may 15-16: north sixth and loma streets; - may 15-16: north second and lewis streets; - may 15-16: south ninth and zuni streets; - may 17-19: 703 south fifth st. (town shop); - may 22-26: hill top cemetery.
catch and releasecatch and release a mother's lessons by james robinson staff writer
the organization is a nonprofit, charitable tax-exempt corporation directed by a board of elected volunteers.
sticky barbecue sauce and  grease can attract bears to your yard.
nothing respectful about pushing residents or small business persons  around because you want their property.
it is appropriate, then,  that our community understands how the festival is good for pagosa.
the junior and senior high science students enjoyed watching a  demonstration on plasma making.
a second burglary was reported may 1 and maxwell said officers believe the incident at the antler shed, 150 e. pagosa st., occurred sunday, april 30.
the first will  take place in july, and involve $10 million at a guaranteed lower rate.
the gateway to imagination show is all over the place.
wristbands for the eddie spaghetti concert and dinner only can be  purchased for $10 per person.
continuing to quote tiller, we read, "the reports of opler and balsam perhaps had some truth in them, although interestingly, their opinions are in direct contrast to those popularly held about wirt.
and then monte came to bat.
they should be either tucked under the plants or twisted up with the bindweed vines to keep it in place and from blowing away.
steventon's oil painting of a cow, "standing gaze,"  was chosen for it's strong, visceral texture and painterly technique.
- certificate of (us) citizenship with intact photo.
hayes is no stranger to pagosa, or to the colorado music scene.
with a sound that toes the line between tom petty and electric bob dylan with a smattering of greg brown and a twist of celtic rhythms thrown in for good measure, the band's charismatic live performances and whimsical blend of folk, rock, hillbilly and pop have captivated audiences and critics alike.
"the passage" is a bronze sculpture of a female head representing the ocean and atop her head is a boat and in the boat is an armored man riding the waves.
recently, the students participated in the invention convention which generated great interest in technology, safety, creativity and marketing.
may 18 - over-the-hill hoopsters, 8-9 a.m.; ebay club, 9-10 a.m.; yoga, 11 a.m.-noon; computer q&a session with becky, 1-4 p.m.; teen center open, 4-8 p.m.; league of women voters, 6-8 p.m.; arthritis class, 6-8 p.m.
much of the information here comes from official va information sources.
remember all those savings you've realized lately?
even though the swans are wildlife they are privately owned by the lodge.
arthritis self-help class for people with arthritis, living the most active life with the least amount of pain and disability involves building skills, gaining knowledge and developing relationships.
having sold the business, but still giving their support to the chamber, we welcome gary and carol dillard, former owners of the corner store as associate members.
there are hearings coming soon on the topic of county land use codes.
females with cubs tend to come out later.
go one block to stagecoach, turn right, then turn left on shenandoah.
fragment c will be visible in small telescopes and with binoculars as it travels near the constellation vulpecula located within the summer triangle asterism marked by the stars vega, altair and deneb - best views should be had in the early morning hours.
the castle is unlike anything ever seen in film, and has as  much of a unique personality as the rest of the cast.
she serves on various committees as a resource and technical advisor.
zoe rohrich placed eighth in the all-around, fourth on floor and was the vault champ with a 9.30.
lacking refined land-use regulations and tools, and concrete planning strategies that mirror a well-conceived community vision, it is sometimes difficult to determine where that zone is.
all came home without injury.
will someone plan a road through properties on south pagosa boulevard?
the middle school teacher almost cried, "from such stupidity may i be spared.
whether raising animals  for breeding, sale and fiber production (alpacas, llamas, goats, sheep and  rabbits) or working their fibers (spinning, weaving, knitting, felting,  designing patterns) to make products for sale, these people are helping to  diversify economic activity in the area.
this summer, the council wants to refocus on trail construction and  maintenance in the pagosa area.
guyton and trujillo both singled, then scored on passed-ball pitches to cut the lead to 4-2.
the deadline for submitting art entries to the library is may 22.
it may go home in another car burma shave - brother speeders let's rehearse all together good morning hearse burma shave - don't lose your head to gain a minute, you need your head - your brains are in it.
the organization secures a permanent location for the thrift  store on pagosa street.
with the current draft incorporating changes brought forth during the monday work session, the document includes basic design guidelines for commercial structures, a voluntary scenic overlay program, eight zoning districts and comprehensive oil and gas regulations.
- valid i-551 resident alien-permanent resident card.
she also placed first on beam, second on floor and third on bars.
another serious encounter, or "second strike," means  the bear will be killed.
americans have wasted energy like we have  wasted food and every other commodity we have for years, and now we're  "paying the fiddler."
do you get excited about fig balsamic vinegar?
the council  always needs new members to help plan and run our activities.
we will celebrate mother's day at the senior center friday, may 12.
rhonda was blown away by jenny's dancing and asked her to teach a three-day hip hop dance.
anyone with any type of arthritis, or any persons in a support role, is encouraged to attend.
voter turnout was higher than expected, and the official results showed  1,321 in favor, with 107 opposed.
this is the theme for all the youth programs at sisson library this month,  in conjunction with the ongoing pagosa reads! programs.
programs include nutritious meals through congregate meal sites,  transportation for their activities of daily living, the promotion of  socialization through the extended family, life long education and mind and  body stimulating activities, and a variety of physical activity.
the inaugural event will take place june 10 and 11 on reservoir hill here in pagosa springs.
as of may 5, nasa researchers at the near earth object program have catalogued 4,056 other near-earth objects - objects, such as asteroids or comets which have been nudged by gravitational forces into earth's neighborhood.
education news helping us make a difference by livia cloman lynch preview columnist the archuleta county education center's "making a difference  2006" luncheon was held april 26 in the first baptist church.
we're very excited about being able to provide that place.
we are looking for people of vision  who realize the potential and will work with us to realize that potential.
beginning clogging starts wednesday, may 17.
the center is located at 451 hot springs blvd.
to reach the karas house, take u.s. 84 to holiday drive.
monologue and scene studies will  hone acting skills such as memorization, characterization, dialogue and  scene-blocking.
once at the vote center, electors will present their documents to election officials, and a ballot containing all pertinent questions relating to where the elector lives, such as questions regarding special taxation districts, will be produced.
the commission also approved a requirement that all wildlife harvested through the use of an auction or raffle license shall be presented to and inspected by an employee of the dow on or before the fifth working day after the animal is harvested.
activities this week today - over-the-hill hoopsters, 8-9 a.m.; archuleta county violence prevention meeting, 8:30-10 a.m.; yoga, 11 a.m.-noon; computer q&a session with becky, 1-4 p.m.; teen center open, 4-8 p.m.; chimney rock volunteers potluck, 6-8 p.m. may 12 - senior walking program, 11:15-11:35 a.m.; senior bridge, 12:30-4 p.m.; seeds of learning dinner and auction, 5:30-9 p.m.; teen center open, 2-8 p.m. may 13 - sewing class, 10 a.m.-2 p.m.;
archuleta county clerk and recorder june madrid said she thinks this policy  could be an inconvenience to citizens and appears to be intrusive.
all the forms are compiled, then reconciled into a formula that reflects the general consensus.
however, state statute requires them to follow the department of revenue's policies.
given my stature, i and those like me (and, believe me, we proud few recognize each other) are more than a bit peeved by u-scan novices and, especially, by u-scan idiots.
when asked what affect rising costs could have on the hospital project, hopkins said, "if costs go up considerably, we'll start cutting.
local artists and artisans will display and sell turned wooden bowls, several different types of jewelry, framed art photographs, portrait sketches, handmade clocks, hand-painted nail files, watercolors, leather and fabric creations, and many other items.
one argument in favor was that such a development will ultimately be in someone's "backyard" and that, as a result, someone will gripe no matter where the development is located.
where does the county planning and bocc stand on this project?
susan kimbler from the sw center for independence leads this informative and helpful support group 11 a.m. wednesday, may 17.
approval was eventually granted, with further review set in 60 days.
on monday night, archuleta county board of county commissioners took a big  step by approving our first land use code.
carol and david brown generously sponsored the library table.
bring your own drum, and if you do not have one, various percussion instruments will be available.
this is simply a matter of misunderstanding.
however, miyazaki somehow makes it all work and a makes it a thoroughly compelling story that remains somewhat true to the novel itself.
let's hope the current population keeps the faith, enjoys the snow along with the brilliant sunshine and says a "hi" to everyone.
call margaret at (970) 884-9607, located just a skip away in oxford.
campers in grades three to five will meet 8:15-10 a.m.
our regular pagosa pretenders family theatre activity is 11 a.m. saturday,  may 13.
the best results will be obtained with active management by mowing the bindweed, which moves the mites around and stimulates new growth for the mites to feed on.
candy bars are available at made in colorado, holy smokes, agape gifts, from school families or by calling 903-3382.
under state statute, and without a county resolution, early voting must  begin 10 days prior to the primary election and 15 days prior to the general  election.
"the captured" is the account of 10-year-old adolph korn who was abducted by an indian raiding party while tending sheep in the texas hill country.
i anticipate we will cover some of the same topics as in the beginning series, however we will go into more detail.
removal of junk vehicles can be coordinated by calling druex williams at  town hall at 264-4151, ext.
when he stumbled on to korn's tombstone in a remote corner of an old cemetery in mason county, he knew who korn was, for he had heard the legend of how korn had been captured and forcibly returned nearly three years later, never to fit into society.
he expanded his research to seven other children in the region who were captured by the comanche and apache.
- june madrid, clerk and recorder, 264-8350, jmadrid@archuletacounty.org.
we are in a frenzy of development activity right now; large ranches are being bought up with plans to turn open grazing land and forested mountains into home sites.
big agenda, little progress at pawsd meeting by chuck mcguire staff writer
i remember the pile of a dozen or so books she kept next to her bed, and her sewing room, acting as a chaotic, surrogate library, bursting at the seams with countless volumes of fiction and nonfiction alike.
the civil defense, women's volunteer service, prepared and delivered meals to these people.
the rate was not revealed at tuesday's meeting.
i cook it into squashy oblivion, adding stock when necessary.
, it appears nasa astronomers are not predicting the end of the world.
the signs entertained and the company profited, but when phillip morris bought the company, they dropped the signs and began advertising in nfl programs with tv ads a minute long.
for the girls, mia caprioli was the sole first-place finisher in an individual track event.
people want to get to state, and they go all out.
they also provide a mix of services tailored for your specific business needs.
according to peak conference documents, "the peak afterschool  conference provides a forum for practitioners, program directors, community  partners, and leaders in the field of out-of-school time to network and learn  through high quality professional development experiences."
when my babies were ready for solid food, i cooked and pureed homegrown vegetables.
archuleta seniors, inc. works closely with musetta to achieve the goals and objectives of both entities.
the den is also accepting applications for substitute drivers.
actors will be practicing monologues in class.
jarvie is a "master" level instructor with the united states golf teachers association.
my grandfather lived in the pagosa springs area until he was about 15 years old, at which time the family moved to texas looking for work.
the board of county commissioners, the county planning commission, and the office of county development (planning), have for several months been soliciting help from consultants, ranchers, developers, and many other citizens in the arduous process of writing this code.
business news chamber news time to clean up community by mary jo coulehan sun columnist as always, it's a joy to work with the youth of this community.
call and request the removal of your junk  vehicles and the town will facilitate the removal; however, the town cannot  guarantee that all removals can be completed.
without the benefit of legal council present, board members and staff struggled to find fair and equitable ways of handling relatively minor, yet complex questions, which ultimately absorbed the better part of three hours.
his mother roberta is currently living in atlanta, georgia, with jerry's sister christina, two brothers, pat and paul.
adopt a home-delivered route today and brighten the lives of a few senior  citizens.
tree program - the town is continuing its residential tree program this  year in which the town will pay half the price of a tree to be planted between  the front of a house and a town street.
the outfield consisted of wes walters in left, travis richey in center and matt gallegos in right.
the grammar school teacher in a huff shouted, "kindergarten blockhead sent to me.
however, i felt chancey's focus on immigration, a hot political issue, influenced her choices more than the aesthetic resolution of the work.
all were returned to civilization after much wrangling between the u.s. government but none of the "recaptured" ever readjusted to established society.
this spring, cano hopes to raise $7,380 in contributions, which will  reflect the average annual increase seen over the previous three seasons.
empty lots are being bought up with plans for spec houses in the works.
classes will be offered each day 8:30 a.m. to noon at pagosa springs high  school.
psac announces a series of photolearn® photography sessions designed for practical shutterbugs.
we will host an audience interactive time based on the book "common ground," by molly bang.
the humane society is audited every three  years and is in excellent financial health.
in competitive events, in addition to lee and andersen, tad beavers received sixth place in international business, trey quiller received sixth place in business math, shanti johnson received sixth place in public speaking ii, julia nell received sixth place in public speaking i, veronica zeiler received 10th place in accounting ii, and tesh parker received tenth place in international business.
specific eligibility requirements for certain va benefits.
the group, mariachi rio grande, received a standing ovation from the crowd of about 80 people who enjoyed two hours of music.
this is simply a matter of  misunderstanding.
a christmas choir was started by carroll (doc) carruth in 1989.
may 3, 1986 - shelter grand opening ceremonies.
a pid would then establish a continual tax on the  same residents, which would offset annual county costs of maintaining the road.
on monday night, archuleta county board of county commissioners took a big step by approving our first land use code.
he loves to tell his many family members about growing up in  colorado.
"we fought hard all day and probably played our best game this season.
- do not leave pet food or dishes outdoors at night.
miss esterbrook is a graduate of pagosa springs high school, the university of colorado at colorado springs, and earned her master's degree from the university of colorado at denver.
however, miyazaki somehow makes it all work  and a makes it a thoroughly compelling story that remains somewhat true to the  novel itself.
the humane society is audited every three years and is in excellent financial health.
june 1995 - thrift store moves to 180 south 6th st. 1995 - initiation of spay/neuter programs for all adopted animals and for the public's animals.
due to  limited viewing capacity, only 24 tickets were offered for each event.
two-day or single day tickets for the festival are on sale at moonlight books.
the detailed colored-pencil drawing looked more like a photograph or a pastel painting than colored pencil.
- thursday, aug. 17, 11:30 p.m., a crescent moonrise.
at one point, when the gate was left open, forest employees say  unauthorized off-road traffic caused significant resource damage to the  surrounding environment.
"junk means old motor vehicles,  auto bodies or parts, old rubber tires, old farm machinery, refrigerators, and  all other abandoned personal property or other appliances stored out in the  open on public or private property.
they also brought refreshments in canteens to service personnel.
the same is true of a non-mason reading masonic materials.
madrid explained that according to the hava act, each polling location is required to have special voting equipment, called direct recording equipment (dre), that can accommodate the needs of physically challenged electors or electors, with virtually any disability.
according to the original agreement between the forest service and residents living beyond road's end, access restrictions were intended to authorize residential use, but not heavy construction traffic.
archaic, offensive rituals there is nothing offensive in masonic rituals.
" cantare singers range in age from 8 to 16 and have been in rehearsal since  january for this event and for the upcoming spring concert to be presented at 3  p.m. may 13, at the high school auditorium.
the third place came with one notable competitor absent from the track and o'donnell said she is "very excited about our girls' chances to make it to state.
"howl's moving castle's" captivating story and gorgeous animation  earned hayao miyazaki his second oscar nomination.
leaves of infested plants become thickened, and have a "fuzzy" texture.
by karl isberg staff writer it's on.
both teams went three and out in the ninth inning and it appeared this one might never end.
the forest service and landowners favor this approach, and  at thursday's meeting, commissioners ronnie zaday and robin schiro described  what conditions would be necessary, before the county could fairly accept the  road, including forming a local improvement district (lid) and a public  improvement district (pid).
all media will be accepted in the contests.
summer drama camp this summer, pagosa pretenders family theatre, a division of psac, will offer its first summer drama camp to area students who will be entering grades four through 12 next school year.
obituariesobituaries irvin peterson irvin "ovie" peterson, who was born february 10, 1926, in minneapolis, minnesota, has gone to meet his lord on may 9, 2006.
the silver foxes den senior center has an opportunity for you to make new  friends while you donate one lunch hour per week to the home-delivered meal  program for the community's senior citizens.
fiber festival a boon to economy by pauline benetti special to the preview
in july 1992, comet shoemaker-levy 9 was ripped to pieces by jupiter's gravity, and astronomers watched two years later, as fragments of the comet pummeled jupiter's atmosphere.
the last few years, the council has concentrated on the completion of two new huts to add to the turkey springs cabin.
the full moon is may 13.
the  female face is beautiful, but bound by susurration.
classes are held mondays at 1:30 p.m.. call for location.
there aren't many of our old friends left in pagosa, but the memories are  compounded by my 85th april birthday.
some classes have started, others are forming now.
the den, through the instruction of linda mozer, is offering a six week arthritis foundation self-help program course beginning 6-8 p.m. thursday, may 18, to encourage people affected by arthritis to be proactive in their health and well-being.
snacks are provided and included in the price of admission.
however, a lid would create a one-time tax, or mill levy, on all affected residents, which would pay to upgrade the road to acceptable county standards.
the following sun and moon data is provided by the united states naval observatory.
we are still attempting to see if it is feasible to work out a traveling schedule with recreation teams in bayfield.
aruba's gasoline is $3.79 a gallon, u.s. dollars.
veteran's marriage certificate for claims of a surviving spouse or children.
faris did not answer so to make sure i had jack dempsey, the senator, go in to see mr. collier.
wednesday, may 17 - hamburger with bun, lettuce and tomato, baked beans, potato salad and plums.
why should alpha/rock ridge metro district pay for more traffic on their roads?
it begins tuesday, may 30, continuing through saturday, june 3, for a fun-filled week of dramatic instruction.
for more information contact inez lobato-winter at 264-2740 or 946-2288, laurie echavarria at 759-9913 or theresa lucero at 264-4534.
when i look back on that evening together, it strikes me that at that  moment, me and my mother must have appeared very different - me decked out in  high tech fishing gear stalking trout with maniacal intensity, she sitting at a  picnic bench wrapped in a quilt reading - but in fact, although seemingly  different, we are in fact, much the same, and who i am today, is probably due  largely to her.
create a poster, leave it to be put on display and you will  be entered in our contest.
manage field bindweed the archuleta county extension offices will receive at least 100 releases of bindweed mite at $20 per release.
two pagosa artists in farmington national show by leanne goebel special to the preview pagosa springs artist linda echterhoff received an honorable mention in the "gateway to imagination" national juried art competition at the farmington museum and visitor's center at gateway park.
"we were raised up here sawmilling, ranching and herding sheep."
he built the family home on lake pagosa in the early years of pagosa lakes development, and was always busy in some type of building project for friends and family.
however, he will not be able to return to work for up to three months.
the council is a non-profit organization formed several years ago to  promote trails and facilitate trail construction and maintenance in the pagosa  area.
with garcia's words, applause rang out in the commissioners' meeting room  and much handshaking and backslapping ensued.
we have a few new members to welcome this week, and what creative businesses they are.
"god must have me here for a reason," he added.
- temporary colorado paper driver license, colorado 7-day affidavit and notice of revocation or affidavit and notice of suspension.
the family recalled how excited lauren had been about receiving  scholarships for college and thought a scholarship fund and program might a  good place to start.
according to lynch and zaday, neither schiro nor any other commissioner has been appointed to naco because lynch and zaday believe the county coffers cannot weather the burden of the travel expenses.
this spring, cano hopes to raise $7,380 in contributions, which will reflect the average annual increase seen over the previous three seasons.
on paper, it appears the teams are well matched.
however, upon further evaluation, viable options were  reduced to two, including wells fargo and united missouri bank.
why, simply doesn't matter.
medals will be handed out to each of this year's participants and jeff laydon of pagosa photography will be at the games distributing this year's picture orders.
please come to the lodge open house, 3-5 p.m., may 20, 227 lewis st., for  answers to your questions.
white cane society this support group is for people with low vision and their supporters.
by chuck mcguire staff writer the upper san juan health service district board of directors held its regular monthly meeting tuesday and, among other things, discussed funding options for a new hospital, recent election results and the purchase of a new ambulance.
the pirates would tie it at five in the top of the seventh and then they matched scores until jaron's hit to end it.
white urged those interested in participating in these programs to read the full cancellation policy on the web site.
this system will include a loop trail that follows martinez canyon and stevens draw near the vista and trails subdivisions, as well as connect to the other side of the canyon, providing access to the trails on brockover mesa, turkey springs and chris mountain.
entry applications may be obtained after may 15 at the gallery or online at www.pagosa-arts.com.
this "city" can only be accessed by the durango-silverton train; there are no roads and no cars allowed.
another part of the castle that's fascinating is the front door, as it serves as a magical portal to four different locations in the movie, including the wastes.
success in managing field bindweed with bindweed mites is highly dependent on your expectations and long-term commitment.
the process also strengthens the skill of verbally sharing insights or questions about the meditation experience.
he's jammed on stage with joe cocker, arlo guthrie and new riders; opened shows for david bromberg, jorma kaukonen, merle sanders, subdudes, dave mathews and david lindley; and recorded in nashville for grammy-winning producer, jon vezner.
furthermore, rather than receiving a $160,000 grant for a 10-precinct installation, the county received only $56,000 from the help america vote act.
many of our local veterans bring a copy of their discharge form to be kept on file in the veterans service office for future needs.
the releases will be delivered at the end of may or early in june.
but, for now, we must codify the processes that allow us to put them where they will fit best.
michael salazar, playing right-field and batting ninth, hit a long double to center to open the monte third.
- fiber artists selling a variety of outstanding handmade textiles and articles of clothing.
this project would require a great deal of work and a lot of cooperation on the part of everyone.
and be home in time for house hunters.
she placed first on bars and second on floor, beam and vault.
with graceful dancelike movements, yoga in motion consists of fluid, nonstop circular movements with breathing patterns that stimulate better circulation.
for more information about the silver foxes den senior center, call 264-2167 or visit www.archuletacounty.org.
eddie spaghetti will be on hand throughout the day to greet children and  sign autographs.
all schedules and upcoming events are updated on a weekly basis.
hart singled to left and the bases were loaded.
new grass, dandelions, and young  plants are typical natural foods - but bears are opportunists and will eat  anything they find.
rosie lee received first  place in business procedures, and heather andersen received second place in  business calculations which qualifies them both to compete at the national  level.
not to say we advocate a halt to development.
tierra alta schools plans fund-raiser, graduation, school trip by dan loper special to the preview tierra alta schools is giving away a week-long vacation for four to  orlando, florida.
games will be monday and wednesday nights from may 22-june 28.
there will be a cash bar with assorted beer, wine and soft drinks for a nominal charge.
attempts at establishing them have not been successful in areas with significant rainfall and high humidity.
this folkloric style of  belly dancing is a fantastic way to stay trim.
each machine costs roughly $12,000 with associated software and set-up  costs.
stan and betsy are thinking about selling their condo and finding a place with a yard where their australian shepherd, boxy, will have a lawn on which to do his vile canine business.
students can sign up for an additional session oct. 12.
therefore, went the argument, the project should be built.
though i know it is oh-so-wrong, i have a half bottle of a wonderful cahors and i drink the hefty red with the meal.
home-delivered meals many people don't realize that meals on wheels was the result of the blitz, a period of intense bombing of london during world war ii.
"we're asking our current supporters to twist arms, sweet talk, and beg other business owners or fishermen for their support." cano said the cost of each delivery is expected to rise this year, but the hatchery supplying the fish, river bend trout farm of monte vista, is also a program donor and provides certified disease-free trout at reduced rates.
while involved parties will work out the finer points in coming months,  residents must now attempt to form "an association" or other legal  entity that can accept a special use permit from the forest service, and take  responsibility for snow removal.
however, my personal favorites in  this vein were both works by new york artist ha rhin kim: "rotte tree  2005-11" and "rotte tree 2005-03."
according to thadeus cano, acting coordinator of the pagosa quality fishing project (pqfp), the annual supplemental river stocking through town will again take place some time between now and july 1.
next week, tierra alta schools is anticipating two major events; graduation  and the end-of-the-year overnight field trip.
a mission statement for motherhood.
the following is a list of transactions that will require your identification: new titles, duplicate titles, new registrations, temporary permits and new handicap placards.
because of requests from throughout the community, psac has added more dates for web and marketing classes.
call and request the removal of your junk vehicles and the town will facilitate the removal; however, the town cannot guarantee that all removals can be completed.
we begin setup and decorating at 9 a.m. the day of the dance, and we would love to have anyone interested come down and help.
thank you for your time and attention.
some trails just need maintenance and upkeep such as minor reroutes, brush  and downed timber clearing and new drainage features.
leader april merrilee explains that the group meditation experience helps in developing the ability to calm and center ourselves.
chancey made 105 selections from 342 submissions based on her belief that a  successful work of art has two components: an interesting idea and successful  execution.
these abstract figurative works are black and white with shades of gray; only the black is almost purple.
he is the author of one other book, "alamo heights" and is a songwriter and a dramatist.
october mion workshop pierre mion will teach his fall watercolor workshop 9 a.m.-4 p.m. oct. 9-11.
once a bear learns this association, it can become dangerous and often must be killed.
may 18 - psac 2007 calendar exhibit and sale opening reception, 5-7 p.m.
we have  been in need of a new shelter for several years.
he adored his four children, ken peterson of pagosa springs, kristi brown and her husband gary, of temecula, california, linda gill and her husband stan, of pagosa springs, dan peterson of denver, and foster daughter susie hall and her husband mike, of pagosa springs.
we have many students who want to be involved in theatre, but do not have any place to acquire the skills to be successful.
approval was eventually granted,  with further review set in 60 days.
move pole barn to house crematorium.
monthly dance at center on the horizon by siri schuchardt special to the preview spring has sprung, and it is time for the next community center monthly dance.
pagosa lakes news do something meaningful for mom by ming steen sun columnist back in the days when i was a new mom, i tried to do everything right.
the second-place bobcats also advanced after they defeated the bayfield wolverines 17-14 in other first round action.
he divides his time between new york city and a ranch in art, texas.
april's presentation will incorporate music and movement with lots of audience participation.
preschool story hour formal story hour will not be held between now and tuesday, june 27, when  our big summer reading program begins.
the council has also been working with the forest service over the past  several years to construct a trail system in martinez canyon, just west of  pagosa lakes.
looking back, i can see the challenges my mother faced and the sacrifices she made to give me and my nine other siblings a better life.
he also worked with and has very good friends in pagosa springs.
musetta wollenweber and designated representatives to san juan area agency on aging (aaa) and regional advisory council on aging (racoa), serve as ex officio members of the board.
the staff also recommends the wildlife commission consider allowing a shooting season on all prairie dog species outside of the closure period, including black-tailed prairie dogs which are found primarily on the eastern plains.
initial establishment of bindweed mites has been most successful on the drier sites, as long as the bindweed is actively growing when the release is made.
wristbands are available at the chamber of commerce and will be available saturday at the ticket booth at playin' in the park.
- clean up and store outdoor grills after use.
birth certificates issued by a hospital are not acceptable.
for more information or a registration packet, call (970) 903-3382.
another highlight of the cruise, which reminded me of how arrogant we  americans are, and not just republicans, came at logan international airport in  boston.
as the community has grown, stray  and nuisance animals have increased.
turn east on greenbrier drive off  of north pagosa by the fire station, then left into the back parking lot and  look for the big sign.
seeds of learning will get the proceeds for their new building.
it's time to wake up and market your business.
while those choirs averaged  50-60 voices, this treble choir of 17 voices demonstrated it is not the size of  the choir, but musical finesse that impresses the judges.
in a letter to the editor published in the sun, schiro stated the current  draft of the land use code was rife with "many unresolved, significant  issues," and she implored county residents to attend monday's meeting,  stating it was an "important topic that will affect all of archuleta  county for years and perhaps generations to come.
" - families with young children viewing and touching the animals, a unique  and educational experience to be found nowhere else.
wristbands for the eddie spaghetti concert and dinner only can be purchased for $10 per person.
organizers of the festival want to put pagosa springs on the map as a center of wool and fiber production, processing and handcrafts.
burma shave fun on the run passing the buck down the line .
participants will also be given instructions on how to dress and what to bring.
this is where the council needs your help.
open to students going into fourth grade, up to 12th-graders, this camp promises to introduce, challenge and develop acting skills in every age group.
organizers of the festival want to put pagosa springs on the map as a  center of wool and fiber production, processing and handcrafts.
and i'm not afraid to show what i've got at our local supermarket, on a daily basis.
despite the strong turnout, there were two notable absences - archuleta  county director of county development blair leist and archuleta county  commissioner robin schiro.
the commission also approved a requirement that  all wildlife harvested through the use of an auction or raffle license shall be  presented to and inspected by an employee of the dow on or before the fifth  working day after the animal is harvested.
white said participants should allow approximately three hours for the entire program, which is not suitable for children under 12.
the prohibition  would be in effect during late-season hunts in specific game management units.
"we're looking for new supporters too, so we can meet this goal,"  cano said.
worshipful john doe means exactly the same thing as the honorable john doe.
the story is a little offbeat and tends to get confusing at times.
he was previously nominated for his masterpiece "spirited away," which won the academy award for best animated feature back in 2002.
the council always needs new members to help plan and run our activities.
- at intersections look each way a harp sounds nice
classes will be held in the arts and crafts room in the pagosa springs community center.
because of my obvious expertise, i have drawn the attention and admiration of the store personnel who man the assistance stand at the u-scan terminus.
if you know you're going out for a fun evening, schedule a special run.
faris perhaps best reflected what jicarillas and former associates of wirt preferred to think.
the two soldiers renewed their friendship after the war, at home in pagosa springs.
the more valuable the land is to the community,  the greater the compensation should be.
if you want to voice your concerns, madrid urges you to do so to one or more of the individuals listed below.
i know that over the years i have given her much grey hair, and at times, i'm sure she had her doubts.
perhaps, dare i say, of the continental u.s. of a.
visually, miyazaki's adaptation is a breathtaking experience!
as are those of us who are recognized u-scan experts.
highlights: deer populations continues to rise and the number of licenses available overall will increase slightly; elk populations are stable and at objective, consequently cow licenses will be reduced by about 10 percent (there are no limits on bull licenses in most of the state); pronghorn populations are rebounding from drought years early in the decade and doe licenses will be increased by 33 percent, buck license numbers will remain stable; moose populations are growing slowly and 185 licenses will be available statewide for 2006, up from 159 licenses in 2005; bears continue to struggle in many areas of the state, so the number of licenses will be reduced by 9 percent to 2,540.
each day, students will attend classes in theater appreciation, improvisation, voice, and monologues/scene study taught by sean downing, john bernard, darcy downing, and felicia meyer.
if you are a psac member and would like to volunteer on one of our committees, helping support art in pagosa springs, call 264-5020.
the farmers have been here for a very long time and in 2004 fiber processing began with the establishment of the mountain high fiber ladies mini-mill.
the colorado division of wildlife (dow) reminds people that an ounce of prevention is worth 200 pounds of cure.
meanwhile, by the next meeting (scheduled for 6 p.m., june 12 at the county  extension building), county administrator bob campbell has promised to provide  residents comprehensive information on how to achieve a vote, and how to  structure improvement districts, should a vote ultimately be successful.
and, at last, i will be able to whip through the process unhindered by amateurs and interlopers.
we need to  help them with their future education dreams.
"this camp is just the  sort of thing we need to sustain interest in theatre here in pagosa, and to  give kids the tools they need to begin a lifelong enjoyment of the performing  arts." registration for the camp is $95 with some scholarships (which pay 50  percent of the cost) available.
in 1998 gandalf murphy and the slambovian circus of dreams (try fitting  that one on a festival poster!)
" another saying was, "when put to the test, an ounce of loyalty is  worth a pound of cleverness."
i'll be calling everyone in about a week.
when the movie stops following the book and takes off on it's own adventure, i wondered at times whether i was watching "howl's moving castle" or "hayao's moving castle."
he is survived by his wife, cheri; daughters lacey sage romero and casey reese; parents john and cristy h. romero; brothers alex and gary romero; godchildren, dion and felina romero; siblings veronica, sarah, jasmine, belinda, maria, and matthew.
take simple precautions in bear season by michael seraphin special to the sun
it contains several featurettes including  interviews with the american voice cast of the film and the writers and  director responsible for translating the film into english.
occasionally, similar views are found in pre-1934 inspection reports.
the most incredible aspect of the animation in the film is the combination of computer-generated animation and cell animation used to bring the howl's castle to life.
general eligibility first of all, eligibility for most va benefits is based upon discharge from active military service under other than dishonorable conditions.
this standstill cycle will provide one more viewing season in 2007, albeit still limited, because during the first half of each year, moonrises occur during the day, making them difficult to see, if at all.
reservations are not taken until the first day of the month and are only for the mystery trip for that month.
cano said the exact timing of the community project will depend on how soon the high-country snowmelt and subsequent san juan runoff ends, but he believes, this season, it'll be sooner rather than later.
"junk means old motor vehicles, auto bodies or parts, old rubber tires, old farm machinery, refrigerators, and all other abandoned personal property or other appliances stored out in the open on public or private property.
in field events, junior caleb ormonde had a big day.
it features  traditional landscape painting, plein aire work in big gilded frames,  contemporary painting, quite a bit of different photography, some digital  prints, some bronze and ceramic sculpture, some pottery, a fiber quilted wall  hanging, some metal art, a piece of silver jewelry and a lot of diverse  painting from figurative, to abstract, from oil to pastel to acrylic and water  media.
are you looking for a way to volunteer some time to your community and make an immediate impact on someone's life?
no memberships are sold thursdays.
with the help of directors of the charles w. hughes foundation, the family found a way to establish the lauren white memorial scholarship - a scholarship now administered with the help of staff at pagosa springs high school.
more details to follow; volunteers may call mercy now at 264-4152, ext.
felica lansbury meyer will teach monologue and scene studies.
both are 2006 models mounted on ford 350 chassis, both are box-type construction, and each will require certain add-ons to completely satisfy district needs.
also the methodist thrift store and city market - our residents love the fresh flowers on their tables.
then jaron jacked his first two-rbi homer in the bottom half to put the yellow and green up 2-0.
first out of the chute this week is a local favorite, victoria's parlor and victoria's reign.
- vietnam war: aug. 5, 1964 (feb. 28, 1961, for veterans who served "in country" before aug. 5, 1964), through may 7, 1975.
or perhaps you'd prefer to bring some wine to share - that's ok too.
now is your chance to learn how to play this beautiful melodic instrument.
they were also to oversee snowplowing operations conducted  by a private contractor working under a required special use permit issued by  the forest service, who owns the road.
although, fragment c is currently at magnitude seven, which is just dimmer than the naked eye threshold, the fragment may increase in brightness as it makes its near-earth passage.
soon after our evening along the rio hondo, our trip culminated in durango  with a trip on the durango and silverton narrow gauge railroad.
he continues to captivate us with studio ghibli's astonishingly detailed animation, as it entices us into yet another world alive with wondrous enchantment and charming characters, providing a true feeling of escape.
jim knoll no respect dear editor: we are going to have growth and progress in our area, but it needs to be with respect to the residents.
once board chair pam hopkins called the meeting to order and secretary bob scott recognized an official quorum, hopkins administered the oath of office to scott, kitzel farrah, neal townsend and michelle visel, all reelected to the board in a special election last week.
i hope to see many of you at the opening of our hospital in the fall of 2007.
i found myself drawn to diverse works.
238, and if hardship  is confirmed, the town will enter property and remove the junk with the  landowner present.
shutterbug series the unfortunate truth about photographs is that the picture we often see is not the picture we get!
232.editorial create the codes there are times to put on the brakes, pull over, take a deep breath, get your bearings, figure out the route.
five series topics are dedicated to individual two-hour sessions and will be held at the pagosa springs community center, art and crafts room.
" another story that wirt told balsam that illustrated his power had to do with the money advanced to the jicarillas in the aftermath of the severe winter of 1931.
where does the county planning and bocc stand on this  project?
madelyn davey placed third in the all-around, third on vault and was the floor champion with a 9.50.
high land values force developers outward from towns to create affordable and profitable developments.
the responsibility to care for veterans, spouses , survivors and dependents can last a long time.
last fall, following several similar meetings, the forest service agreed to  rebuild three-tenths-of-a-mile of the road to an all-weather standard, install  a road closure gate, build a parking lot, and provide a public winter access  trail from the parking lot to the forest.
learn about breath control, fingering, and how to play solo  or with a group.
the silver foxes den strives to enhance the health and well being of the lives of the senior citizen population of archuleta county through a variety of means.
"the timing is perfect," said pretenders president susan garman.
i cook for a minute or so and add most of a can of crushed, fire-roasted tomatoes and a cup or so of chicken stock.
you can also purchase an individual all-day pass (including the dinner) for $25.
- to assure that wildlife remains the primary focus at colorado's state wildlife areas, the commission approved new restrictions at several of the areas around the state.
why am i here and all my other friends are gone?'"
the turnout for a special district  election was very healthy; and i was impressed at the number of people who  waited in line; and also those who came back after seeing the long line to make  sure that their voice was heard.
this standstill cycle will provide one more viewing season in 2007, albeit  still limited, because during the first half of each year, moonrises occur  during the day, making them difficult to see, if at all.
according to county documents, schiro had scheduled 31 out-of-town trips between jan. 27, 2006 and the present - a time period totaling 104 days - and at a current cost of $470 to the county.
the witch  intrudes on the hat shop one night and places a curse upon sophie, turning her  into a 90-year-old woman (she is now voiced by actress jean simmons, "the  dawning"), and to make matters worse the curse forbids her from ever  telling anyone about it.
jacqueline herring received a special award for earning the highest all-around score in the entire competition.
the first meeting, we'll explore the world of appetizers.
leaders, businesses and private individuals are working to maximize pagosa's  potential as a place to visit and a place to live.
you can check out what is going on at the den by going to http://archuletacounty.org/seniors/senior_center.htm.
the board of county commissioners,  the county planning commission, and the office of county development  (planning), have for several months been soliciting help from consultants,  ranchers, developers, and many other citizens in the arduous process of writing  this code.
by chuck mcguire staff writer the upper san juan health service district board of directors held its  regular monthly meeting tuesday and, among other things, discussed funding  options for a new hospital, recent election results and the purchase of a new  ambulance.
nothing respectful about the town going ahead  with plans showing ranches swallowed up, homes gone, or businesses no longer  there.
if you wish to join us for this tour, please sign up at the library desk.
she also meets  and befriends markl (voiced by josh hutcherson, "zathura"), a young  wizard in training and apprentice to howl.
for more information on this hut and trail system go to the pagosa area trails council web site at pagosahuts.com.
the class is free and will last approximately two hours.
the group gratefully accepts any donations, which are tax deductible.
the pirates (10-10, 3-6 in iml) fought hard but finally fell in 10 long innings to the hard hitting hosts (15-6, 9-1 in iml).
in certain circumstances, the following identification documents may also be acceptable for purposes of processing an application for a certificate of title and/or registration, although it is strongly recommended that a photo identification card from the list above be required.
the senior center is known as the silver foxes den, or the den.
if you are a victim of a financial crime, want tips that may help you avoid becoming a victim or want to become aware of what recourse you would have should you become a victim, you can check out this 15-minute dvd from the den's library to view at home, or watch in our lounge.
at this point, even with the glaring failure of last season's temporary  approach to solving access issues, the forest service remains committed to  helping affected mill creek residents find equitable short- and long-term
all steering, no  brakes.
several u-scan training monitors will be placed on the tables and attendants will be at the ready, evaluating a mock u-scan run-through.
it's hardly appropriate for someone outside a group,  and without the special knowledge of the group, to object to the terms unless  he or she full understands them and why they are used.
if you are interested in purchasing the bindweed mites, contact the archuleta county extension office at 264-5931 or e-mail archuelt@ext.colostate.edu.
in the case of the antler shed, there was a loss.
2001 - spay/neuter programs six years old, 8-percent decline in number of incoming animals.
all scheduled events will be posted weekly and daily for your convenience.
we were missing a major point earner at the league meet in nikki kinkead, but i was very impressed with the attitude our girls had.
the dow, of course, stocks several million catchable and sub-catchable trout in a broad variety of state waters every summer.
free entertainment will begin saturday at 11 a.m. in town park with a  special story discussion and dramatization presented by barb draper from the  sisson library.
adopt a home-delivery route today and brighten the lives of a few senior citizens.
january 2000 - crematorium installed at shelter.
how a community treats its lost and homeless pets is a factor in its lifestyle rating.
for a second year, the festival will sponsor a navajo rug auction sunday evening at 6 p.m. with registration beginning at 5.
judges needed psac has announced its schedule for the 2006 season, with 10 upcoming shows.
of the seven originally considered,  three were priced above the $105,000 budgeted, another was a demo with 14,000  miles on it and a fourth couldn't be ready for nearly eight months.
cria has hosted seven events for the public to view moonrises between the  spires at chimney rock archaeological area.
the $50 fund-raiser ticket includes  a pre-event talk, mesa-top ascent and descent, and a presentation at the  viewing area, with complimentary light refreshments and an optional  presentation afterwards.
all older youth can create artwork of any type and enter the contest.
a person reading a cookbook had better know terms like fold, cream the butter, or soft ball have special meanings, or he'll make a mess instead of a cake.
setup and decorating begin at 9 a.m. the day of the dances, and we would love to have anyone interested come down and help.
i awoke early, and eschewing tv or personal pursuits, curled up on the couch with a stack of books that i could recite in my sleep (which i did).
here the town and county's gain is directly related to the size and success of the festival.
park fun is pagosa springs' summer recreation program, designed to keep your child happy and busy while you work or take a moment for yourself.
tickets are $5 and are available at the center and at wolftracks.
the first thing: seal off the u-scan area with a tall fence.
meanwhile, it is nearly impossible for  people struggling to stay in agricultural production to say no to thousands of  dollars an acre to sell their land.
the booklet, "a message to garcia," was written in 1899 by the philosopher elbert hubbard.
call to let us know what you plan to bring so we don't all come with pickled shrimp.
it was written for the americans of that day (it  was civil war time), and later used as a reading book in schools, where it was  used to inspire leadership.
children's chorale brings home first-place trophies
coming to us from the durango area is soaring tree top adventures, with dionne beggrow.
this price includes an eddie spaghetti cd.
meditation sunday for unitarians sunday, may 14, is meditation sunday at the pagosah unitarian universalist fellowship.
by karl isberg staff writer pagosa springs police investigators have some interesting evidence from one of two recent burglaries in town, and are seeking help in identifying possible suspects.
"jessica almost qualified in the four hundred.
i breastfed, and responded to each and every cry with anxious alacrity.
roy boutwell wichita falls, texas 100 years dear editor: on june 7, my dear grandfather, harold comstock, will celebrate his 100th birthday.
worshipful john doe means exactly the same thing as the  honorable john doe.
it's hard to beat sleeping away an afternoon in a field full of wildflowers, only to wake up rejuvenated, casting for cutthroats as the sun goes down.
- wednesday, oct. 11, 8 p.m., a gibbous (bulging/more than half) moonrise.
the pagosa hut and trail system will allow users to take extended overnight trips that include the turkey springs area, middle mountain, monument park, hotz springs and connections to the piedra river and devil mountain.
registration is underway for  the 2006-2007 school year.
june 7 - psac "falling forward: web site updating and front page," 1:30-4:30 p.m.
some time during the past year, when i was watching the tv show, "jeopardy," a question was asked.
pdf files of the alternative maps and other maps being used in the analysis  will soon be available on the web at: http://ocs.fortlewis.edu/forestplan.
2001 - initiation of behavior and temperament testing of potential  adoptable animals.
at this  point, the metal shelter will become an isolation ward for all incoming animals.
he entered in to rest on may 5, 2006 at 6:35 p.m. at the age of 48 at the pine ridge nursing home.
thursday evening, u.s. forest service officials met with archuleta county  authorities and affected property owners to discuss the successes and failures  of last winter's restricted access and snow removal arrangements on mill creek  road, and where the group should go from there.
our regular pagosa pretenders family theatre activity is 11 a.m. saturday, may 13.
families can purchase wristbands that bundle the full day of entertainment and fun, including a lunch provided by kiwanis, t-shirt decorating, a family swim at the spa, and the eddie spaghetti concert and spaghetti dinner held at the community center at 4:30 p.m. individual wristbands for the full day of activities are $25.
how do they go against the recommendations of cdot on the increased traffic  at 160 and great west?
a reminder: classes may 23-24 are cancelled.
all head coaches for mustang division should attend.
she married her high school sweetheart, otis thomas, april 28, 1956, and began a new family together in fort worth.
we're very excited about being  able to provide that place.
judges are needed for two juried shows - psac annual juried fine art show (june 29-july 17) and psac annual juried photo show (oct. 12-nov. 1).
"the tanks would come in and fire, and we'd move in to get (hit with) all the artillery," recalls trujillo.
the staff is  recommending that the taking of prairie dogs on public lands be prohibited  statewide on all species from march 1 to may 31 to provide protection of  breeding adults and dependent young.
once the rotary telephone disappeared from the scene, this twit was adrift as far as technology goes and observing him at the u-scan terminal is like watching a gibbon try to drive a ferrari.
one new hut at hotz springs is  complete and the other at monument park is very close.
country hearth and home is open monday through friday 8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. and saturday by appointment.
- department of revenue/state titles and registrations section, (303) 205-5608.
view major lunar standstills at chimney rock by karen aspin special to the sun a major lunar standstill occurs on an 18.6-year cycle.
mystery trips at the den are very popular and are scheduled on a reservation basis.
in recent years, property owners have put  pressure on the town and county to allocate more resources for animal control.
bill nobles has recommended red and white clover on the rest of the grounds as an interim yard cover while we are deciding on permanent arrangements.
the pirates won the southwestern league title this season.
they sent him up to me so unprepared."
each day, classes begin promptly at 8:30 a.m. and last until noon.
however, state statute requires them to follow the department of revenue's
i've covered life's events as a photojournalist for more than 25 years, and i'll share my knowledge with aspiring child photographers.
membership rates are: youth, $10; individual-senior, $20; regular individual, $25; family-senior, $25; regular family, $35; business, $75; patron, $250; benefactor, $500, director, $1,000; guarantor, $2,500 and up.
this strategy, she said, would allow the county to meet the needs of  disabled or physically challenged voters, would keep the county in line with  the help america vote act and would keep the initial cash outlay for the direct  recording equipment at a minimum until the bugs could be worked out of the new  technology and the county coffers could better weather the expense.
- the restoration fellowship church, 264 village drive early voting to ease the pressure on election day, the board of county commissioners also approved early voting for archuleta county.
in the past, electors voted at a polling place based on their place of  residence.
we're not opposed to water storage and we're not opposed to a reservoir at dry  gulch, but this project is extremely expensive and ties up way too much
when you support the  education center you support a family of important educational programs in our  community.
the pagosa pretenders family theatre is known for its spontaneous  productions such as "2001: a space oddity" and "escape to  broadway.
and she ran a very tough race.
veteran's birth certificate to determine parents' benefits.
with a packed agenda for its monthly meeting, the pawsd board rapidly advanced through the first several items with minimal discussion, and it appeared progress would be swift and complete.
we would like to have several of these work days over the course of the summer and early fall.
the first meeting of the gaming group will be monday, may 15.
shortly after his graduation, he moved with his wife joan to san diego, california, where he worked in the home construction industry for many years.
the proposed dry gulch project has come under fire from the five rivers  chapter of trout unlimited and the san juan citizens alliance.
the community will benefit as the festival grows and the festival needs  community support to grow.
and although not new, i would like to welcome aboard the new owner of the liberty theatre, mark monaco.
but, when the change proposed is massive, there is a line between governmental control, community impact and private property rights in need of illumination, a zone of compromise that must be recognized.
thanks again, forward looking dear editor: i wish to thank all the forward looking citizens who took the time to  become informed and vote for our hospital.
another problem that i felt would be that some of  miyazaki's artistic liberties in his adaptation seemed out of place at times.
they complain of "offensive" titles, such as "worshipful master" for the leader of a lodge.
but, i am still agitated.
the junior and senior high science students enjoyed watching a demonstration on plasma making.
in most cases, service can be provided with 48 hours advance notice.
" the pirates have had more than a week off and kurt-mason said he has worked his charges hard in preparation for the playoffs.
this policy requires all motor vehicle transactions to be accompanied by  any department of revenue accepted form of secure and verifiable  identification.
"the response from the community, and especially from local merchants, has been fantastic."
pajak and ray had six girls in their division.
pdf files of the alternative maps and other maps being used in the analysis will soon be available on the web at: http://ocs.fortlewis.edu/forestplan.
therefore, in order to bring the direct recording equipment to archuleta  county as per the hava mandate, madrid said she opted to establish vote  centers.
once again, the fiber festival supports that priority by providing the small livestock farmers a venue to promote their products, thus making a rural lifestyle economically feasible.
"we love doing it," said the whites.
medicare recipients can still enroll in the medicare prescription drug program after may 15, but will incur a 1-percent lifetime penalty for each month they wait.
fred catchpole, assignee of w.c. and pearl mccomas, today received five bids for the purchase of the pagosa drug store fixtures and stock of goods, the best bid being made by l.c. jackisch of cedaredge, colo.
pagosa springs fbla received the peak iii chapter achievement award completed by and accepted by emilie schur.
june 16 - psac "the secret of your success:
however, days absent could exceed 31, because trips are defined as any out- of-archuleta county-excursion, with a one-day or multi-day trip both counted as one.
from the department of defense or veteran affairs.
(temporary paper license with previous colorado license is  considered acceptable.)
it took action on several issues and referred other items for further study and discussion.
they are  pretty similar.
for more information and registration, call me at 264-4486 or visit www.wendysaunders.com and www.pagosa-arts.com.
the archuleta county education center would also like to say thank you to  everyone who purchased tickets and attended our luncheon.
while growing up, she worked hard to raise five  kids, and although my stepfather was there, i'm sure, at times, the pressures  of motherhood were tough to bear.
in addition, your membership helps to keep art thriving in pagosa springs.
two pirates reached base in the top of the third inning.
they tell me they have never looked into va benefits or in some cases may have not had a good experience with a va representative or vso in the past and did not pursue matters any further.
why is the town going to pave almost one mile, as a "gesture of good will," more of great west than first planned several years ago?
horrified, sophie sets out the following day into the wastes to find a wizard who can break the curse.
one of the biggest challenges of an animal shelter is to avoid cross  contamination of new animals arriving with current residents or having to move  an aggressive 130-pound dog from one kennel to another for cleaning.
the choir size varies from 65 to 95 local volunteers under the direction of pam spitler and larry elginer, accompanied by melinda baum.
the four-day session fee is $195 (psac members $155).
members of the choir have been invited to sing with "music in the mountains" in durango this summer.
the next trip, may 25, is already full, but we are putting names on a waiting list.
h1, h2, j1, j2, f1, f2, etc. requires  verification of colorado employment or education.
"we will not cancel it or give refunds if the moonrise is obscured by weather.
prior to the election, madrid said electors will receive a signature card in the mail.
meditation sunday for unitarians sunday, may 14, is meditation sunday at the pagosah unitarian universalist  fellowship.
regardless, this  movie is a wonderful family film, and is one of the most beautiful animated  features from 2005 you'll see.
they, too, walk to  village lake.
as we were entering the american airlines terminal to fly home, i saw senator john kerry get into a stretch limo, which probably gets five miles per gallon.
the story is important history, well researched and easy to read.
field bindweed (convovulus arvensis) is one of the most widespread and difficult-to-manage weeds growing throughout the united states.
membership also entitles those who meet annual income guidelines to scholarships for eye glasses, hearing aids, dental, prescription drugs and medical equipment.
no previous experience required for  this beginning hand drumming class.
freshman jackson walsh had another good day in the 3,200.
for whimsy, david  edgar's "bluetail reef cruiser" and "goggle-eyed swallow  tail," fish made from recycled plastic containers.
all exhibits are shown at the psac gallery in town park.
no one likes the high price of gasoline, but we're getting exactly what we asked for, and it's not all george's fault.
"i remember one time on hill 351, we had our 'whites' over us.
and although julien concurs with yeomans that the largest comet fragment will pass by earth without incident, julien asserts it is a small , truck-sized hunk that will strike earth, causing tsunamis, underwater volcanic chain reactions and the destruction of life on earth as we know it.
contact the archuleta county education center at 264-2835, or stop by our office at 4th and lewis streets, for additional information on any of our programs.
the event is open to the public with tickets priced at $20.
this thought came to me when i was  reflecting on mother's day and time spent together during one of her more  recent visits.
each cost $150,000, but the fancy  advertising failed.
i streak to the u-scan and every terminal is occupied.
the family recalled how excited lauren had been about receiving scholarships for college and thought a scholarship fund and program might a good place to start.
nothing respectful about bootjack management's last-minute request to increase density in a residential area.
the colorado class 3a soccer playoffs have begun.
build a 112-unit, seven-building complex anywhere in the county where land prices permit such a venture to profit and someone will complain.
he was born in pagosa springs to john and anne comstock in 1906.
the town and county are relying on the humane society to maintain a  facility that can handle all impounded pets.
(yes, srp is being held later than usual this year.)
winners will be announced may 27, with all art entries displayed at the library.
the complete list for license numbers for all game management units  can be found at the colorado division of wildlife's (dow) web site:  http://wildlife.state.co.us.
bring donations at 11 a.m. music by brother to brother starts at noon.
last sunday's concert in celebration of cinco de mayo was fabulous.
rhapsody" with soloist matthew brunson, "once upon a time" with  soloist tiffany brunson, "america the beautiful," "poor  wayfarin' stranger" with soloist larry baisdon, "do you feel the  rhythm?," "i'm gonna sing" and "this little light of  mine."
due to nature's unpredictability there is no guarantee you'll enjoy a moonrise between the spires, even at a scheduled event during the second half of a year.
a meeting of all owners of autos is hereby called for saturday evening at the town hall for the purpose of organizing a motor club.
- place garbage for pickup outside just before collection and not the night before.
children preschool through age 10 can create their contest posters at the library friday, may 19, directly after school.
do you search out the best cheeses and just the right wines?
he began his career laying carpet and linoleum.
plus we had ... an awesome viewing of the milky way."
despite the strong turnout, there were two notable absences - archuleta county director of county development blair leist and archuleta county commissioner robin schiro.
i also liked her first-place winner: "cherries under ice" by janet collins, sedona, ariz.
psac also has several committee openings for volunteers - exhibit and gallery, art camps and workshops, home and garden tour, and public relations.
" lynch also drew comments from her coach.
however, despite the poignancy of the event, those in opposition did not stay for the revelry.
the pagosa area trails council depends on community volunteers to get the job done.
he was previously nominated  for his masterpiece "spirited away," which won the academy award for  best animated feature back in 2002.
"we think the project is much bigger than any substantiated need.
the  society's purpose is to provide a safe haven for animals in need, promote  adoptions, reunite lost animals with their owners and to humanely reduce pet  overpopulation through community education and aggressive spay and neuter  programs.
after their demand that the question of zoning and the  land use code be put to county voters was denied, the handful trickled out of  the meeting room.
hours: are monday to saturday, 8 a.m.-5 p.m. eca dance, music classes begin soon by carla roberts special to the preview elation center for the arts is offering many new weekly classes this spring  and summer.
the winner of the adult contest will create the piece of art or photograph that best represents any image evoked by "people of the moon," written by kathleen o'neal gear and w. michael gear, the last book in the program series.
outdoors mule deer association makes donation by joe lewandowski special to the sun the colorado mule deer association has donated $9,000 to the colorado  division of wildlife to aid mule deer habitat improvement.
all of a sudden, they pounded us - shell after shell after shell.
each table setting, fabulously decorated on the theme of a children's book, will be auctioned off in its entirety at the end of the evening.
there aren't many of our old friends left in pagosa, but the memories are compounded by my 85th april birthday.
without this photocopy, a title will not be issued.
some trails just need maintenance and upkeep such as minor reroutes, brush and downed timber clearing and new drainage features.
volunteer orientation and speaking of volunteers: the summer volunteer orientation will be held at the library at 10 a.m. tuesday, june 6.
starting at 4:30 p.m., an eddie spaghetti concert and spaghetti dinner will take place.
in the end, united missouri bank got the nod, largely because of its low rate and extensive experience in lending to health care facilities.
as always, the choir is pleased to provide free admission for this program  as its gift to the community.
thank you ricardo for being a sport, and thank you mariachi rio grande.
unfortunately, it lost to "wallace and gromit: the curse of the were-rabbit" earlier this year.
events in surrounding areas will be included when deemed of interest to our readers.
the auction is set for 1 p.m., with more music to follow.
- shearing of sheep and goats throughout the day.
if you are a member of archuleta seniors, inc. and would like to spice up your life with a mystery trip, come to the den to find out more about it.
even as the program enters its fourth year, it remains completely dependent on the generous contributions of a long list of pagosa area citizens, merchants and financial institutions, who have supported it to the benefit of local tourism.
- keep garbage in airtight containers inside your garage or storage area.
and, i should note, somewhat of a role model and hero at the store.
perspective judges should live outside archuleta county, submit a resume and three samples of their work.
the colorado trappers association had requested to add mink, marten, long- and short-tailed weasel, opossum, ringtail, western spotted skunk, swift fox and gray fox to the list of small game species.
there was also a play for the highlight films.
the boys' 4x400 relay of gill, moore, furman and orion sandoval ran the race in 3:42.33, for second place.
each student is being encouraged to grow a garden this summer as a family activity.
without the benefit of legal council present, board members and staff  struggled to find fair and equitable ways of handling relatively minor, yet  complex questions, which ultimately absorbed the better part of three hours.
therefore, the choice has come down to two different units, one built by braun, inc., and the other by leader.
perhaps it could be because of personal challenges, lack of motivation, the competition has a new service, technique, product, or maybe there's just more competition in pagosa (and surrounding area) these days.
"we're looking for new supporters too, so we can meet this goal," cano said.
even if you can only make one or two work days, your  help will be much appreciated and the reward will be an amazing trail we can  all enjoy.
county administrator bob campbell said leist had submitted his resignation  to county officials roughly two weeks prior, but had agreed to stay at his post  until completion of the land use code adoption process in june.
again, the early morning hours may provide the best viewing opportunities during the latter portion of the comet's passage.
the inaugural graduation will be held tuesday evening, may 16, at 6:30 p.m. combined with that ceremony will be an awards night which will honor student activities and accomplishments.
the mountain high gardeners will help us spruce up some of the planting beds.
" field events are set to start at 10 a.m. saturday at bayfield.
the  arrangement seemed equitable, the plan sufficient, and we set out.
if you get voicemail, leave a message, as tickets are sold on  a first-come, first-served basis.
burma shave - around the curve - lickety split it's a beautiful car - wasn't it?
with time to iron out details before next winter, mill creek road residents are, nonetheless, facing stiff challenges.
in 1999 and 2000, as pagosa springs junior high school choir director, she brought home superior ratings and the judge's choice trophy as well.
the subject matter and instruction for this special class centers on landscapes of glen canyon and lake powell.
while my father taught me how to take it easy, to slow down and relax, my mother took those lessons to new heights, and it is due to her that i have mastered the art of pre-bedtime napping.
"cherries under ice" did not fit in with her other top picks,  which all expressed the idea that the past is always a part of one's present  identity, ancestors travel with us as we move forward.
there will an exhibit and sale of the calendar images at the gallery, may 18-june 5, with an opening reception 5-7 p.m. may 18.
she supervises a staff of two, nearly 50 volunteers, senior center operations and activities.
a number of top-three finishes paced boys' results.
for proponents, the approval marked a new beginning for county land use,  including institution of county-wide zoning; but for the plan's opponents, the  approval marked the beginning of the end.
nothing respectful about plans to put in a wal-mart when the moratorium  is lifted come june.
25 years ago taken from sun files of may 14, 1981 the town board, at a special meeting monday, agreed to take over the operation of the proposed geothermal heating system, providing that a land exchange could be satisfactorily completed.
also missing, and one who offered to call into the session, was schiro.
the first major 3d shoot will be june 25, with setup on june 24.
"all who attended were very pleased."
youth baseball skills-assessment day for mustang division (9- and 10-year-olds) is saturday, may 13, from 1-3 p.m. at the high school baseball complex.
i've never seen anything like this and the execution is excellent.
for more information, call amato at 903-8814.
she wore many hats and served her lord well through years in the united methodist women, where she served 10 years as president at her local church, as well as district offices and was chairman of the administrative board for five years.
an intermediate class is now in the works; right now we are finalizing the schedule and what will be covered.
high land values force developers outward from towns to create  affordable and profitable developments.
- oct. 21 - hunters' ball.
75 years ago taken from sun files of may 15, 1931 the town board has authorized the construction of a cement crossing and sidewalk on the north side of san juan street from the corner of fifth street to the alley at the arlington hotel.
lodge management is encouraging people not to walk up to the nesting area to check on the swans.
she thought it was her husband jake burma shave - cautious rider to her reckless dear let's have less bull and more steer burma shave - the midnight ride of paul for beer let to a warmer hemisphere burma shave - don't stick your elbow out so far
they are usually scheduled the third friday of the  month.
library news 'where the wild things are'- at the auction by christine eleanor anderson preview columnist the seeds of learning benefit suction is 6 p.m. friday, may 12, at the community center.
they have two living adult children as well as grandchildren residing in pagosa springs - now the fifth generation to call the four corners home.
by making food available  to a bear, people train it to associate humans with food.
coach gallegos was proud of the way his team played.
students participating in the show are heather andersen, shaina etcitty, caitlin forrest, hayley goodman, kelsey king, matt krone, charlie hoch, ursala hudson, saber hutcherson, josh pringle, emilie schur and ashley snyder.
(they're optimists and they've named the fetuses cyrus and mandy).
for more information contact inez lobato-winter at 264-2740 or 946-2288,  laurie echavarria at 759-9913 or theresa lucero at 264-4534.
the manner in which the building was entered, with the exterior door kicked in, leads officers to suspect a link with the burglary at the adobe building.
she gave me freedom, and has taught, by her own example, acceptance.
ride in style, comfort and safety.
having read the book just last summer, i can say that the film hardly follows the book at all.
maxwell asked sun readers to examine the photo accompanying this story and, if they recognize the key ring, to call him at the pagosa springs police department, 264-2131, ext. 241.
individual sessions are $45 psac member, $55 general ($65 after may 14).
the series is specifically directed toward artists, but would also benefit any business.
the commissioners heard testimony to expand the number of small game  species that can be legally taken.
remember, "a fed bear is a dead bear."
some might call her trust naiveté, yet my mother had confidence in  the better side of human nature.
september 2000 - two direct donations made for acquisition of cloman  property, 11.25 acres for new shelter site.
long-term responsibility
the regular second saturday of the month pagosa pretenders family theatre activity will be at town park at 11 a.m. this week, not in the library.
the device uses a mixture of propane and oxygen and is detonated in a burrow.
the thief or thieves stole an antique cash register as well as some knives and belt buckles, among other items.
in the meantime, the forest service has offered three other short-term options for consideration, and by meeting's end, residents unanimously agreed to pursue one, over the others.
"mr. graves has said that due entirely to my pressure upon senator sam bratton and commissioner rhoads a bill was put through congress giving mr. graves the power to spend that $80,000 free and without red tape as he saw fit.
"the whole gist of it is that you want people to vote near where they  work.
you only got to decide where you were going,  not if.
americans have wasted energy like we have wasted food and every other commodity we have for years, and now we're "paying the fiddler."
benefits include improved posture, increased strength and energy and less chronic stiffness.
i don't need to valorize motherhood.
an account has been established at wells fargo for those wishing to contribute directly to the program.
for mls tickets, call chimney rock interpretive association at 264-2287,  beginning may 15.
they refer to the shame  a good man should feel at the thought he had broken a promise, and they remind  us of the price so many have paid for the liberties and freedoms masons are  pledged to protect.
make checks payable to kirk zellner.
the book was, "the man without a country," written by edward everett hale in 1863, and the other, "a message to garcia," a 15-page booklet written by elbert hubbard.
"i was planning on making a career of the military when i met my wife," said trujillo with a smile.
not only do i use the service, but i am, with all due modesty, the u-scan king of pagosa springs.
the pirates came with swords drawn and a slightly different look on defense.
- to assure that wildlife remains the primary focus at colorado's state  wildlife areas, the commission approved new restrictions at several of the  areas around the state.
participants should wear sunscreen and hats, as we'll be photographing outside (water bottles provided).
the horse attempted to cross the railroad bridge and fell through, breaking its leg and making it necessary to kill it.
a door to an office inside the building was kicked in, but the office was vacant and nothing was taken.
it evolved into the pagosa springs community choir, a non-profit organization which provides two free performances each year.
rodriquez continued to pitch shutout ball for monte vista through the top of the fourth inning after hujus reached first on a walk, but was left stranded again.
the  entire stretch lies within national forest jurisdiction.
monthly dance at center on the horizon by siri schuchardt special to the preview spring has sprung, and it is time for the next community center monthly  dance.
the council was instrumental in the development of the archuleta county/town of pagosa springs master trails plan that was adopted in 2003.
sports hotline general information concerning the pagosa springs recreation department can be obtained by calling the pagosa springs sports hotline at 264-6658 or logging on to townofpagosasprings.com and going to the parks and recreation link.
- united states or united states territory certified court order of  adoption (must include date of birth).
michael promises to play a wide variety of music.
in addition to providing more space, the new shelter will keep animals healthier, make animal care easier, offer improved impound and isolation areas and provide critical rehabilitation space for those needing time to adjust or heal.
the cost is $40 for an 8x8 space and $50 for a 10x10 space, including one 3x6 table.
offensive titles some don't understand the historic source of the terms used in freemasonry.
this month, the drama and story presentation will take place in town park, not at the library.
according to julien, who claims to have regular telepathic contact with extraterrestrials, the 1995 fragmentation of sw3 was the work of a race of malevolent extraterrestrials responding to the united states' nuclear program and the then burgeoning star wars defense system.
as established by the board's approval, all three centers are within the pagosa springs area - none are located in the outlying areas of the county.
let's be proud of our heritage and where we came from.
i was used to that, but the book made the feeling of love of country more so.
the first will take place in july, and involve $10 million at a guaranteed lower rate.
if you are interested in helping support senior services in our community, tax deductible donations will be accepted by either county senior services or archuleta seniors, inc.
may 21 - pagosa springs watercolor club, 10 a.m.
a combined score of 180 is sufficient for the candidate to receive a "green card" - a document stating the customer is granted probationary status and can use the u-scan, under supervision.
the dow, of course, stocks several million  catchable and sub-catchable trout in a broad variety of state waters every  summer.
gandalf murphy and the slambovian circus of dreams will take the stage  sunday, june 11 on reservoir hill.
three months (or 100 visits, whichever comes first) and the customer's record is reviewed by management.
after a leisurely drive north through the rio grande valley with stops in santa fe, chimayo, and ranchos de taos, our first evening found us at a hotel in taos proper.
attending from pagosa springs high school, in addition to the reward  recipients, were kelly crow, ben devoti, patrick ford, darran garcia, jamilyn  harms, casey hart, jennifer haynes, anna hershey, kerry joe hilsabeck, kristin  hopper, kim judd, jessica lynch, elise mcdonald, aaron miller, kyle peterzen,  michael spitler, chesea taylor, trevor trujillo, katie vowles, jenni  webb-shearston and adrienne young.
leist did not call during the session, and david alvord, senior planner and  interim director of county development, filled leist's role.
eddie vita, president of the pagosa springs chapter of the association  presented the check to dow director bruce mccloskey.
overlays and tdrs have been combined as an incentive-only  and market-based program to encourage and compensate landowners and developers  for preserving some agricultural and open lands.
this is a real leap forward in medical care for our community that was started many years ago by foresighted individuals and previous boards.
then work on maintaining the cleanliness of our town all year long.
emerged from the misty hills of sleepy hollow, n.y., and exploded upon the hudson valley music scene with their stunning self-produced debut release, "a good thief tips his hat."
this is happening with todd and doug shelton at rock  ridge mobile home park where they wish to build houses.
how do they go against the recommendations of cdot on the increased traffic at 160 and great west?
polling places, procedures changed staff writer archuleta county voters accustomed to casting their ballots by precinct are  in for a change.
the features include the original japanese trailers.
tuesday, may 16 - lasagna, green beans, seasoned cabbage, banana and italian roll.
we're a chapter 7 kind of culture.
while involved parties will work out the finer points in coming months, residents must now attempt to form "an association" or other legal entity that can accept a special use permit from the forest service, and take responsibility for snow removal.
in the 1950s-1960s, the o'dell brothers started a business making shaving  cream.
- the size of the water line is inadequate for the water pressure needs of an animal shelter.
the date for the library book sale and annual friends meeting this year has been changed to sept. 8 and 9.
while staying  with howl, sophie learns of the agitation and struggle he faces with having to  hide from the witch of the wastes' henchman, and to avoid serving on both sides  in a war against two neighboring nations over the mysterious disappearance of a  prince.
the  improvisation class will offer creative activities to inspire young actors to  develop characters and relationships with other characters on stage.
go "wild" for the seeds of learning.
items don't need to be new, and can be  in the form of a service to be auctioned off.
if  you want to voice your concerns, madrid urges you to do so to one or more of  the individuals listed below.
meetings will begin at 6:30 p.m. and end at 9 p.m.
- aug. 11 - around the world in pagosa.
clean trash cans with ammonia or bleach occasionally to reduce odors that  attract bears.
today - psac pierre mion watercolor (figure) workshop, 9 a.m.-4 p.m.
and, while a group of resolute landowners  remain steadfast in their pursuit of answers - in part, by applying pressure on  county government to assume some responsibility - county authorities now seem  willing to take on a more active role.
the plant thrives in the arid western states and will grow on many sites where other plants cannot exist.
we hope to see you and hear your views on this subject and its treatment in the book.
the band has been featured recently in relix magazine, the new york times and on the cbs hit show, joan of arcadia.
cost of a trip is $5, plus money for lunch at a restaurant.
colorado has a "two strike" rule for dealing with problem bears.
there are 30 artists are crafters signed up.
rewards - most definitely, but even then it's sometimes hard to see when you are in the trenches.
music of slambovia at indiefest by crista munro special to the preview
white said one point she thought should be stressed is that, during the  major lunar standstill cycle, there are very few actual full moonrises between  the rock spires, and that this seems to be one of the biggest public  misconceptions - right up there with the notion that during chimney rock's full  moon programs, visitors will see a full moon rise between the stone pillars,  which is not the case.
be sure to bring games with you and, if you come on thursday, you might consider bringing lunch.
there are 16 teams in the running and the pagosa pirates (9-3-1), the no. 8 seed, take on no. 9 fountain valley (11-2-1), of colorado springs, friday at 4 p.m. at golden peaks stadium.
the program starts may 30.
handouts and easy-to-use instructions will be given.
the schedule includes: rockies vs. white sox at 9 a.m., orioles vs. angels at 10 a.m. and a's vs. royals at 11a.m.
it would take a terrific amount of dirt and fill as well as considerable rip-rapping and some work in the river with heavy machinery and drag lines.
while madrid said the machines are impressive in their ability to meet the needs of disabled or physically challenged electors, they are also new, utilizing relatively new technology and are, as of yet, unproven in a real election scenario.
the committee listed the rising cost of fossil fuel as a primary reason for building the system.
the castle is unlike anything ever seen in film, and has as much of a unique personality as the rest of the cast.
poster board and other materials will be furnished.
i think every young man should spend at least two years in the military."
white said 2005 ticket sales were brisk for mls events, which are  fund-raisers to support native puebloan involvement at chimney rock.
the council is a non-profit organization formed several years ago to promote trails and facilitate trail construction and maintenance in the pagosa area.
it's illegal to feed bears in colorado - in addition to being bad for the bear; you will be ticketed and fined.
if you would like to join this club, give her a call at 731-1574.
it loosens the arms, shoulders and chest, working gently on the joints and muscles.
if you  don't already have an instrument, quality flutes are available for this weekly  beginner's class.
space is limited; call now to reserve your space.
computer lab news the cavalry is coming.
art entries should be a poster depicting the child's response to that question.
if everyone on the manager's review committee agrees, a customer is granted permanent u-scan status.
he leaves a legacy of 13 grandchildren and 2 great-grandchildren.
he was transported to the pine ridge nursing home for the last four hours of his life.
the  photocopy must be a readable photocopy or it will be rejected.
white said one point she thought should be stressed is that, during the major lunar standstill cycle, there are very few actual full moonrises between the rock spires, and that this seems to be one of the biggest public misconceptions - right up there with the notion that during chimney rock's full moon programs, visitors will see a full moon rise between the stone pillars, which is not the case.
however, the planning commission's unanimous approval serves only as a recommendation, and the question will be put to the board of county commissioners for final approval at 9 a.m. may 23 in the south conference room of the pagosa springs community center.
the location is inconvenient for the public.
at 2 p.m., eddie spaghetti will read his book, "a visitor in the dark," and sing a few songs from his latest cd.. the day of fun in the park lasts from 11 a.m.-4 p.m., and includes several fun activities that are free of charge.
we must  continue to celebrate our cultures that seem to be slowly getting lost.
formed four corners animal resource entities with 12 other animals  groups in the surrounding area to collaborate on animals challenges and  successes.
burma shave - drove too long - driver snoozing what happened next is not amusing.
he is passionate in his  belief that "acting stems from instinct and tuition."
tapping into the popularity of independent musicians that's been fueled to  great degree by the internet, indiefest will deliver 10 top-notch sets over two  days from a diverse collection of artists.
a percentage of that goes directly to the town and county coffers as sales tax revenues.
being in the military for seven years gave me so much discipline.
other disintegration theories include break up caused by thermal stress when a comet passes near the sun, or disintegration caused by an explosion created by an outburst of trapped volatile gasses.
he's jammed on stage with joe cocker, arlo guthrie and new  riders; opened shows for david bromberg, jorma kaukonen, merle sanders,  subdudes, dave mathews and david lindley; and recorded in nashville for  grammy-winning producer, jon vezner.
the film, titled "delivering justice - all the king's men," is a story of financial crime victims and their efforts to recover.
in competitive events, in addition to lee and andersen, tad beavers  received sixth place in international business, trey quiller received sixth  place in business math, shanti johnson received sixth place in public speaking  ii, julia nell received sixth place in public speaking i, veronica zeiler  received 10th place in accounting ii, and tesh parker received tenth place in  international business.
the site is open for guided tours beginning may 15.
veteran's corner are you a veteran, and what are your benefits?
2001 - spay/neuter programs six years old, 8-percent decline in number of  incoming animals.
create a colorful  costume with dancer and costume designer carla roberts.
the short answer is that archuleta seniors, inc. plays an important role at the senior center, but is not supervised by the director.
it features traditional landscape painting, plein aire work in big gilded frames, contemporary painting, quite a bit of different photography, some digital prints, some bronze and ceramic sculpture, some pottery, a fiber quilted wall hanging, some metal art, a piece of silver jewelry and a lot of diverse painting from figurative, to abstract, from oil to pastel to acrylic and water media.
register for junior golf program the rising stars junior golf program has announced the addition of daniel jarvie to the staff of instructors and volunteers.
on may 12, fragment c and a variety of other fragments will pass within 7.3 million miles of earth, this is closer than any comet's passage since 1983.
they agreed, and we drove up the ski valley road, found a  riverside pullout
so, speaking of volunteering and youth, get ready for a wonderful couple of days dedicated to families and youth, sponsored by seeds of learning child care center.
control in localities with desirable vegetation, inaccessible areas, as well as many agricultural systems is nearly impossible with herbicides.
learn to play bridge the den has a very active bridge group, and this popular card game is our top den activity.
"we should do well in the field events and, maybe, we'll qualify someone in each event."
the plan was simple, i would act as tour guide and aside from two planned activities, the goal was to venture north through santa fe, chama, taos, pagosa springs and durango, with stops at as many espresso joints, quilting shops and fishing holes as possible - she, and my sister, are avid and skilled quilters; i am an avid fly fisherman; and me and my mother are coffee addicts.
d, port neches, tx  77651.
kyler cooper, playing in center field, started the inning with a home run.
jenny, a full-time mom to two boys, ages five and three, put it so aptly as she huffs up the hill with her load in a double-occupancy baby jogger: "i just want them to make something of themselves."
while my father taught me how to take it easy, to slow down and relax, my  mother took those lessons to new heights, and it is due to her that i have  mastered the art of pre-bedtime napping.
i use the u-scan every time i go to the store.
starting monday, may 15, the town of pagosa springs hosts its annual clean-up week.
the prohibition would be in effect during late-season hunts in specific game management units.
his address is: mr. harold comstock, 715 ave.
but now i'm talking to the rest of you.
the quirky  quartet then began touring throughout the northeast and rapidly developed a  fiercely loyal, all-ages following.
the municipal court shall consider the following factors in determining whether any of the above-described property constitutes 'junk': - whether or not a vehicle is currently licensed or has been licensed during the past two years; - whether or not a vehicle is in good operating condition; - whether the property is an eyesore to the other people in the community and whether it is aesthetically pleasing; - whether or not weeds are growing around or in the vehicle or property; - whether the property is stored or kept in a garage or enclosed building; and - whether the property being used for the purpose for which is/was originally made.
last fall, following several similar meetings, the forest service agreed to rebuild three-tenths-of-a-mile of the road to an all-weather standard, install a road closure gate, build a parking lot, and provide a public winter access trail from the parking lot to the forest.
they install and service what they sell, have over 18 years experience and offer free, in-home consultation.
i found myself transfixed by the aboriginal detail and maze-like paths in "satellite 781," an acrylic and ink composition by julie king, nacogdoches, texas.
there will be a tractor train ride sponsored by rotary, as well as a jump house, balloon characters, paper hat decorating and games.
in 1907, ana jarvis began a campaign to establish a national mother's day.
come to the seeds of learning playin' in the park celebration and look for us by the straw bale seating area.
the den's caring volunteers deliver the meals to homes mondays, tuesdays, wednesdays and fridays while taking the time to check in with the individuals.
i've got the other ingredients i need at home.
these abstract figurative  works are black and white with shades of gray; only the black is almost purple.
white said 2005 ticket sales were brisk for mls events, which are fund-raisers to support native puebloan involvement at chimney rock.
" another saying was, "when put to the test, an ounce of loyalty is worth a pound of cleverness."
within two years the indians had paid off my debt."
monte would score another in sixth on another long home run to left-field by catcher matt gonzales and the score went 5-2 for the home team.
we will host an audience interactive time based on  the book "common ground," by molly bang.
roy boutwell 100 years dear editor: on june 7, my dear grandfather, harold comstock, will celebrate his 100th  birthday.
check out our web page at www.archuleta.colostate.edu for calendar events and information.
2007-2008 - phase two of shelter project.
if you are interested in helping revive what was once a great chance to see, learn and hear the traditions that many of our residents grew up with, in pagosa springs and the surrounding areas, come help us get this going again.
no border crosser or  usa b1/b2 visa/bcc cards.
the next meeting of the new ebay club will be held at the center at 9 a.m. thursday, may 18.
giorgio's  work is a digital print while day's work is a palladium print.
corbin mellette won the iml title in the 100-meter dash, finishing the race in 12 seconds.
by 1952, trujillo had earned enough points to be pulled back from the front or to return to the united states.
it will be a fun evening.
please give ted a call at 264-2111 or visit the web site, www.twinklet@pagosa.net.
draft night for mustang division is monday, may 15, at 6 p.m. in town hall.
archuleta was a member of the 77th tank battalion.
on her journey, she comes across wizard howl's moving castle, a giant, lumbering mechanical beast that crawls across the countryside at great speeds.
michelle and i are planning an evening of good food and good conversation and if this idea appeals to you, you're invited to join us 6 p.m. may 31.
while enjoying retirement, ovie always stayed busy with many interesting adventures.
the gateway show is an interesting collection of work from 85 artists in 28 states.
of the objects identified, 834 are asteroids with a diameter of one kilometer or larger, and 785 have been classified as potentially hazardous asteroids.
a hunter from  utah offered the winning bid of $45,000.
students will attend classes in voice, improvisation and monologue/scene studies.
his music has taken him across the continent a dozen times, and  twice around europe.
"many people do not realize that a few simple precautions can minimize the chance of unwanted encounters with bears.
what began as an event conceived of and sponsored by one family - the belt family of echo mountain alpaca - has moved into the non-profit world with a board of directors.
cost for the entire week is $95.
music will be provided by the fabulous high rollers, out of durango.
local chatter inspiration in a small package
ormonde won the high jump at 6 feet, two inches.
an exterior door at the adobe building, 475 lewis st., was kicked in and a suspect or suspects entered the building.
rodriquez walked and jaron sacrificed him in to tie the score again at 7-7.
as chancey said of bruvel's work: "he has such a  unique vision.
the price of the three-day workshop is $240 for psac members and $265 for nonmembers, the extra $25 will automatically give you a one-year psac membership.)
do courts use ritual opening and  closing court sessions?
chapter 11 of the municipal code of the town of pagosa springs defines junk  and outlines procedures for abating junk.
two pagosa artists in farmington national show by leanne goebel special to the preview pagosa springs artist linda echterhoff received an honorable mention in the  "gateway to imagination" national juried art competition at the  farmington museum and visitor's center at gateway park.
they realized a scholarship to a student with special needs inspires a youngster, giving them a sense that there are those who believe in them and in their ability to achieve.
some classes have started,  others are forming now.
madrid said the decision to concentrate the vote centers in pagosa springs  had much to due the with distribution and concentration of voters in the pagosa  area, economics, the availability of grant funds and the county's  responsibility to meet the 2002 help america vote act (hava) requirements.
it's a technique i employ nightly, and i've used napping to great effect on trout streams.
the center will come alive friday, may 19, with music from dj michael  murphy from durango.
of course, while a lid and pid would satisfy county requirements and alleviate the forest service of further responsibility of road ownership, getting them approved by a majority vote remains the primary obstacle to a final resolution.
certainly, formulating a long-term solution will take a while, perhaps even  years.
plus we had ... an  awesome viewing of the milky way."
the inaugural graduation will be held tuesday evening, may 16, at 6:30 p.m.
bruvel manages this without stimulating the grotesque.
surprisingly, chancey chose few other works that could be considered  abstract expressionism for the gateway show.
now is a good time to come out and sharpen your eye for this year's county fair tournament.
"i'm hoping we get most of our boys' relays to state - at least three of four," said the coach.
for more information on this hut and trail system go to the pagosa area  trails council web site at pagosahuts.com.
pagosa springs' cantare, the only "community ensemble" which competed, received a superior rating of 93.5 out of 100, which was the highest score in their division.
she is a special education teacher at red rocks elementary school in morrison.
your membership can provide a great discount on the purchase of a dental water jet and electric toothbrush.
performing as a solo act, a sideman or with his various bands, hayes has  given over 3,000 performances in many of america's finest music venues  including the fox theater-boulder, the berkshire performing arts center, the  great american music hall-san francisco, and at several prominent music  festivals.
this fund-raising project, entitled the florida "family  funraiser," includes airfare from albuquerque, resort accommodations, a  rental car and three-day disney jump passes.
and, while a group of resolute landowners remain steadfast in their pursuit of answers - in part, by applying pressure on county government to assume some responsibility - county authorities now seem willing to take on a more active role.
enjoy a soak at the spa for your family, lunch, t-shirts and more fun activities included in your package price.
local chatter inspiration in a small package the summer after i finished the sixth grade, we went to visit my aunts at the home place in kentucky.
he then had chemo and was fine until february of this year.
last week we reported that morris opler, an anthropologist who did much work on the reservation during 1933-34, saw wirt as owning a virtual stranglehold on apache finances and even on bureau of indian affairs policies.
having obtained voter approval for a new hospital, the district suddenly  faced the enviable position of selecting from a list of lenders to borrow from.
artists may enter up to two entries and those may consist of watermedia, oil, pastels and drawings (a photography juried show will be held in october).
"the service has done a lot for me," stated trujillo.
despite the extravagant animation, this is not miyazaki's best film,  especially when compared to some of his most recent masterpieces "spirited  away" and "princess mononoke."
for more  information on the pagosa quality fishing project, call thadeus cano at  264-2370.
the main thing to know about our  sled was that it had no brakes.
after serving two and a half years in the navy at the end of world war ii, ovie returned home to minneapolis and attended the minneapolis school of art where he graduated with a degree in industrial design.
there is also a mini-documentary detailing hayao miyazaki's visit to pixar studios for one of the first u.s. premieres of the film, and a japanese interview with director pete docter of pixar studios.
they agreed, and we drove up the ski valley road, found a riverside pullout
those shortcomings were detailed in a letter from the forest service to "mill creek road users" in march 2006, and have prompted the agency to look for new ways of handling access restrictions and snow removal next winter, and in the years beyond.
there will be one or more tables reserved for singles.
pagosa gymnasts continue successful season by jennifer martin special to the sun last weekend, pagosa gymnasts competed in denver at vertical sports.
we hope to see you at our meeting  on may 17.
the canvassing committee finished final canvassing the afternoon of wednesday, may 3.
people of all ages can enjoy the experience of soaring over a mile of stainless steel helicopter-grade cable through 27 trees to 31 stainless steel platforms.
volunteers needed for home meal program are you looking for a way to volunteer some time to your community and make  an immediate impact on someone's life?
the lad at terminal 4 is picking his nose.
the council has also been working with the forest service over the past several years to construct a trail system in martinez canyon, just west of pagosa lakes.
there is concern that dogs, other animals or people will bother the adult swans and cause them to leave their nest.
pirate girls (91) finished third, behind winner bayfield (107) and centauri (98).
(temporary paper license with previous colorado license is considered acceptable.)
they sent tanks and half-tracks and trucks to get us out.
i encourage everyone to read the code, ask questions, and suggest changes,  as the next steps in the process begin and continue.
ever hear  of baffle them with bs? janet valdez some brakes dear editor: when i was growing up in the northwest, my brother and i shared a sled.
he wrote that wirt's power rested on a rather strong base; his ability to get what he wanted from congressmen and governors, for this reason he encountered no opposition.
once a bear has found a feeder in your yard, it will likely look around for other easy foods within reach.
- the location of the existing shelter has become a desirable residential  district and homeowners are applying pressure to get the animal shelter to move.
"we cannot afford the travel that's involved and i think our resources  are better spent for the immediate needs in archuleta county," lynch said.
meanwhile, it is nearly impossible for people struggling to stay in agricultural production to say no to thousands of dollars an acre to sell their land.
it will be an interactive drama based on the book "common ground," by molly bang.
nasa scientists don't see things quite the same way.
if you are a 2006 member of archuleta seniors inc., your fare is $10.
the $50 award was for  her mixed media work, "seed pod" an organic floral structure made of  cardboard, fiber pulp and packing tape.
in 1930, german astronomers arnold schwassmann and arno arthur wachmann discovered the comet as it passed within 5.8 million miles of earth - roughly 24 times the earth-moon distance - and calculated its 5.5-year orbital period .
moore, furman, sandoval and a.j. abeyta were second in the 4x800 relay, in 8:40.61.
" kurt-mason reported his starters "are all healthy" (kailey smith's broken nose being the only notable injury - and not enough to keep her out of action) and ready for competition.
for any questions, concerns or additional information about any of the pagosa springs recreation department adult or youth sports programs, call 264-4151, ext.
at 6 p.m. friday, may 12, head to the community center where a tasty dinner catered by wildflower catering will be served, at 40 differently designed tables for this "once upon a time" benefit dinner.
he returned stateside and was based at camp carson, colo. after 21 months of active duty, trujillo was issued an early discharge.
jaron walked to open monte's half of the fourth inning.
this is not a talent acquired easily, or with haphazard effort.
white said most of the available 2005 tickets were sold out by mid august.
everyone is invited to participate, at $50 per person.
december - festival of trees.
inc. is archuleta seniors, inc. part of the senior center, supervised by the senior services director?
the canvassing committee finished final  canvassing the afternoon of wednesday, may 3.
the dialogue is well translated, and the english cast is well fitted with the characters, especially billy crystal providing the voice of calcifer.
the den has an opportunity for you to make new friends while you donate one lunch hour per week to the home-delivered meal program.
we have lots of fun with it; it is a community celebration where we can get  together and help out with an important cause.
diamond points out that, despite our own society's apparent inexhaustible wealth, ominous warnings have begun to emerge even in robust areas like montana.
and a cure was not to be
in 1999 and 2000, as  pagosa springs junior high school choir director, she brought home superior  ratings and the judge's choice trophy as well.
their much-celebrated newest release "flapjacks from the sky" has  garnered high praise from music writers, sparked generous activity at radio  stations across the country, and continues to invoke wave after wave of  enthusiastic response from music fans worldwide.
that is bad for everyone.
as the community has grown, stray and nuisance animals have increased.
marketing your biz with print media," 9:30 a.m.-noon.
the site is open for  guided tours beginning may 15.
this eye-opening piece of fiction by the gears gives us plenty to contemplate besides water in a time of drought.
and although wilderness and coffee may seem disparate, the two, in fact, are inextricably connected.
rosters in pinto division (6-8) have been finalized.
kenneth marquez, interim dean of students and interim president dr. david svaldi, handed certificates and pins to the students on the president's academic distinction list and the vice president's honor roll.
- gulf war: aug. 2, 1990, through a date to be set by law or presidential proclamation.
in addition to requiring seeing your secure and verifiable identification (svi), effective june 1, 2006, the department of revenue requires with all new and duplicate title applications, a photocopy of an svi to accompany the paperwork to the state.
he will join jim amato to direct program activities.
hale's book had to do with a navy lieutenant who said he never wanted to see his country again, and those who saw to it that he never did and how the man regretted his decision.
- the commission heard testimony on a proposal to restrict collection of antler sheds on public lands only from april 1 through dec. 31, starting in 2007.
"i wanted to get in again when we jumped into iraq.
bindweed mites spend the winter on the underground buds of bindweed rhizomes.
trujillo walked and bahn outran a bad throw to first, but both were left on base.
the enchanting sound of native american flute reflects the solitude of earth, sky and the gift of nature.
a rosary will be held friday, may 12 at 6 p.m. at immaculate heart of mary catholic church.
candy bars are available at made in colorado, holy smokes, agape gifts,  from school families or by calling 903-3382.
children's programming for may runs through friday, may 19.
the vote put an end, at least temporarily, to plans for such an unacceptably large project in that spot.
the arrangement seemed equitable, the plan sufficient, and we set out.
was i trying too hard?
schedules will be  announced in the preview for three weeks prior to the beginning of rehearsals  and will be posted online at www.pagosachoir.org.
your call will be returned in the order it  was received.
the diversity is needed "to improve the number, quality and variety of jobs that are available to local residents."
make checks payable to kirk  zellner.
bring a lunch and we will all eat together in the canyon.
"our defense has been solid in practice during the last week," said the coach.
the division of wildlife donates one mule deer license to the  association that can be used by a hunter anywhere in the state.
help a fellow veteran who may be going in the same direction to the same va facility.
"the grant will enable our program to provide additional meals and  transportation services to the young at heart senior citizens," said  musetta wollenweber, director of senior services.
the council will provide tools; please wear a good pair of work boots, work gloves and bring sunscreen and water.
collectively, the board hopes it won't need the $2 million, but hopkins suggested construction costs are rising rapidly, and the money will be available if necessary.
"if vote center's work, we'll stick with three and have a back-up  (dre)"
community planning committees have produced a comprehensive plan in an attempt to insure that pagosa springs does not lose its quaint and rural aspect - that quality many of us came here for and that quality that continues to bring tourists to our area.
salad bar every day, 11:30 a.m.
may 22 - deadline for pagosa reads!
once board chair pam hopkins called the meeting to order and secretary bob  scott recognized an official quorum, hopkins administered the oath of office to  scott, kitzel farrah, neal townsend and michelle visel, all reelected to the  board in a special election last week.
the story is about the chaco anasazi, and the internecine war that results from an intersection of overpopulation, drought and class rebellion.
the optional fourth session is available for $60, per person, minimum four students.
tomorrow they will come out to go to the auction table.
as the county of archuleta and the town of pagosa springs have grown, so  has the population of the dogs and cats in the community.
here is a flavor of what goes on during the two days of the festival: - half-day and full-day training workshops in beginning and advanced  spinning, weaving, knitting, felting, dyeing, locker hooking and color theory.
for general or vendor information  contact pauline benetti at 264-5232, e-mail to pauline@pagosafiberfestiva.com  or log on to the web site, www.pagosafiberfestival.com.
contact psac at 264-5020 for information and your advance ticket purchase.
"how  can you not love a picture of a cow?"
bruce hayes to perform in pagosa bruce hayes performs in a 6:30 p.m. house concert may 20 at the karas house in holiday acres.
you can walk home with your own fanciful or elegant table setting.
the family she loved and enjoyed included husband otis thomas; daughter jackie wommack and husband gary; son ronnie thomas, all of azle; daughter janet jones and husband wes of richland hills; seven grandchildren; five great-grandchildren; favorite cousin and lifetime friend, sue jane marutsky and husband joe of grand junction.
for a second year, the festival will sponsor a navajo rug auction sunday  evening at 6 p.m. with registration beginning at 5.
in a meeting lasting nearly two hours, the assembly gathered at the county extension building, where forest representatives described shortcomings associated with snowplowing and gate management agreements, which led to unauthorized road use and significant off-road resource damage, following a mandatory gate closure.
inside the sun police seek to identify evidence
the final regulations will be considered at the july commission meeting.
if we are going to tell landowners that their land is important to the rest of us by putting them in a scenic or wildlife overlay district, then we should back that up by giving them more value for their land.
here is a flavor of what goes on during the two days of the festival: - half-day and full-day training workshops in beginning and advanced spinning, weaving, knitting, felting, dyeing, locker hooking and color theory.
"the captured : a true story of abduction by indians on the texas frontier," by scott zesch, st. martins press, new york, 2004.
and, speaking of that, watch for lots of information - in the preview and in a flyer that will be sent home with the kids from the schools - about the summer reading program.
i know that we see some of you almost every day - and believe me, we love seeing you and saying "hi."
burma shave - the one who drives when he's been drinking depends on you to do his thinking.
perhaps of southwest colorado.
hale's book had to do with a navy lieutenant who said he never wanted to  see his country again, and those who saw to it that he never did and how the  man regretted his decision.
pagosa springs' cantare, the only "community ensemble" which  competed, received a superior rating of 93.5 out of 100, which was the highest  score in their division.
this sculptor has not only  mastered technique and aesthetic, but explores ideas and communicates those  ideas to the viewer.