arguably one of the hottest teams in the country, one of the best running backs and they finished second in their conference, yet no bid.
i was out for a few days this week, and realized it's been a while since i offered up a blog.
-good move in my opinion by wku locking coach taggart up.
so without further adieu... -i think the fact that wku didn't get invited to a bowl game is a real shame.
gray television, inc. -
he has had two top recruiting classes in the sun belt and the players all seem  to have really bought into his message.
a rough start the wku men's basketball team has looked good in their  last two wins.
-i think the wildcats will get a tougher game out of indiana on  saturday than most people think.
iu gave coach tom crean time to build the  program after it was decimated by kelvin sampson and it looks like they have  finally turned the corner.
avoid work, read about sports!
iu gave coach tom crean time to build the program after it was decimated by kelvin sampson and it looks like they have finally turned the corner.
oh, and the third and fourth place finishers in their league did.
font size: i was out for a few days this week, and realized it's been a while since  i offered up a blog.
arguably one of the hottest teams in the country, one  of the best running backs and they finished second in their conference, yet no  bid.
he came in to a  tough situation and in two short years seems to have turned the program around.
he has had two top recruiting classes in the sun belt and the players all seem to have really bought into his message.
-the lady toppers are just struggling right now, and that's all you can  really say.
copyright © 2002-2012 - designed by gray interactive media - powered by clickability
- not many thoughts on hs basketball, mainly because i haven't seen a lot of it yet.
goodbye football, hello basketball!
-the lady toppers are just struggling right now, and that's all you can really say.
i'll be at some games tonight and look forward to seeing some of the teams compete.
-chane behanan vs. george fant should be a very good match-up to watch, although right now it looks like behanan is the better player.
he came in to a tough situation and in two short years seems to have turned the program around.
-i think the wildcats will get a tougher game out of indiana on saturday than most people think.
1-25-12 new season starts for hilltoppers tonight happy holidays!
i'll be at some games tonight and look forward to seeing some of the  teams compete.
no reason to think he can't lead  the hilltoppers to a number of conference championships.
taggart is also the highest paid employee at the university, which now makes football king at western.
no reason to think they won't be 6-6 going into the game against louisville.
a rough start the wku men's basketball team has looked good in their last two wins.
taggart is also the highest paid employee at the university, which  now makes football king at western.
- not many thoughts on hs basketball, mainly because i haven't seen a lot  of it yet.
here's a blog post about sports.
that being said, i'll still take uk by 8-10.
no reason to think they won't be 6-6 going into the game against  louisville.
no reason to think he can't lead the hilltoppers to a number of conference championships.
(yea i just used the word conundrum.)
-chane behanan vs. george fant should be a very good match-up to watch,  although right now it looks like behanan is the better player.
(yea i just used the word conundrum.)
that my friends, is a real conundrum.