you can  follow any responses to this entry through therss 2.0.
and i am totally sober as i write this.
what does concern me, though, is that notre dame is up in week two.
well, richrod unveiled his qb for the season opener – he doesn’t have one.
have us write for your website advertising rates contact the handicappers i’m not sure that 3 is better than 1 as you probably know if you have read this blog much i am a diehard  michigan fan – the kind that bleeds maize and blue.
filed under college football.
well, richrod unveiled  his qb for the season opener – he doesn’t have one.
given that  you’ll have a sense of how much i have enjoyed the last year or two of  football, and the last decade of basketball.
i’m optimistic now, though – in rod i trust.
i don’t know what the point is, but it clearly works for him – he’s a speedster.
that was to be expected – they  hadn’t been recruited by rodriguez, and they just weren’t suited to  his system.
i’m optimistic now, though  – in rod i trust.
rodriguez intends to give all three players significant playing time.
as you probably know if you have read this blog much i am a diehard michigan fan – the kind that bleeds maize and blue.
share this post tweet comments are closed
or rather, he has three.
now he’s at arkansas and about to be eligible again.
robinson is an athletic freak with a weird habit – he hasn’t tied up his cleats since he was seven years old.
sheridan isn’t the  most overwhelming talent, but he has the advantage of experience and age, and  will be a factor.
they  were spoiled by four good years from chad henne, but he’s now in his  second year as backup with the dolphins, and a void was left in his stead.
sheridan isn’t the most overwhelming talent, but he has the advantage of experience and age, and will be a factor.
i don’t think you can qb by committee against legitimate teams.
i don’t know what the point is, but it  clearly works for him – he’s a speedster.
if you haven’t been keeping track, michigan’s biggest problem  right now is quarterback – i.e. they really don’t have one.
i don’t think you can qb by committee against  legitimate teams.
this post tweet posted byt.o. whenham on aug 23 2009.
that was to be expected – they hadn’t been recruited by rodriguez, and they just weren’t suited to his system.
the being said, the press conference by coach rich rodriguez today pretty much terrified me.
that doesn’t concern me in that game that much – it’s only western michigan.
last year we made due with nick sheridan and david cone mostly, but it was more than ugly.
i won’t feel as comfortable in that, though, if we have yet to  make a qb decision.
if you haven’t been keeping track, michigan’s biggest problem right now is quarterback – i.e. they really don’t have one.
all that being said, i still think we will win 8 or 9 games this year.
last year we made due with nick sheridan and david  cone mostly, but it was more than ugly.
that doesn’t concern me in that game that much – it’s  only western michigan.
what does concern me, though, is that notre dame is up  in week two.
or rather, he  has three.
given that you’ll have a sense of how much i have enjoyed the last year or two of football, and the last decade of basketball.
now he’s at arkansas and  about to be eligible again.
so why am i terrified.
this year sheridan is still around, and he is being challenged by two true  freshman – early enrollee tate forcier and denard robinson.
both comments and pings  are currently closed.
forcier is the brother of former michigan and stanford qb jason, and he’s an impressive all-round talent – the likely long term starter from the group.
i have no respect at all for the irish, and i want to beat them senseless.
uber frosh ryan mallett was supposed to be the answer as a sophomore last year, but he made a knee jerk reaction and left as soon as rodriguez was hired because he didn’t think he fit in with the system.
forcier is  the brother of former michigan and stanford qb jason, and he’s an  impressive all-round talent – the likely long term starter from the  group.
this year sheridan is still around, and he is being challenged by two true freshman – early enrollee tate forcier and denard robinson.
there is certainly enough there to win well more than the three games we won last year.
and  i am totally sober as i write this.
i have no respect at all for the irish, and i want to beat them  senseless.
they were spoiled by four good years from chad henne, but he’s now in his second year as backup with the dolphins, and a void was left in his stead.
he just tapes his ankles and flops around in his loose shoes.
robinson is an athletic freak with a weird habit – he hasn’t  tied up his cleats since he was seven years old.
the being said, the press conference by coach rich  rodriguez today pretty much terrified me.
i won’t feel as comfortable in that, though, if we have yet to make a qb decision.
he just tapes his ankles and  flops around in his loose shoes.
uber  frosh ryan mallett was supposed to be the answer as a sophomore last year, but  he made a knee jerk reaction and left as soon as rodriguez was hired because he  didn’t think he fit in with the system.
rodriguez intends to give all three players significant playing  time.
there is certainly enough there to win well more than  the three games we won last year.