granted, if you spend the money you’re not guaranteeing the program will “rise”; however, if you don’t the opposite is just as likely.
that would suggest it is in the university’s best interest to invest in developing the necessary facilities for uk athletics independent of what such an investment might mean for the competitive success of the football and basketball teams.
even though the new facilities would be expected to support the cost of their own bond service once built, the initial cost of bonds during the 2 – 3 years of construction and any startup phase would have to be paid by the university.
kentucky is supposed to be an academic institution first, and it looks to me like they are putting their money where their mission is.
:-) a sea of blue -- kentucky sports for the discerning fan by glenn logan on nov 7, 2011 8:12 am est up reply actions being a uk football fan relates to being a woman in a man’s world.
then again maybe not.
by kywineman on nov 7, 2011 11:48 am est up reply actions as ww points out addressing mega super-confernces.
simplistically, if you had $3 million dollars extra a year you could afford $30 million dollars of expense and have 10% return on your investment and these days 10% looks pretty damn good.
on the one hand a new hospital, on the other a new football stadium.
i think about the difference between uk basketball and the rest of the sec.
- george orwell by wild weasel on nov 7, 2011 11:33 am est reply actions that uk would be left out.
tweet  24 comments  |  0 recs  | do you like this story?
it's gonna be a great day.
" by hslex on nov 7, 2011 6:46 am est reply actions blue... there is no other color to bleed !!!
after all, the bottom line is raising more money for everything – football, basketball, field hockey, the university, the albert b. chandler and the like.
i chose kentucky because i followed the basketball program.
at current tax free bond yields, the $20 million currently diverted to the university could be expected to support approximately $570 million in 30-year bonds.
kentucky was one of about fifteen of them.
i fully expect the idea of “super conferences” to evolve into an actuality — most likely when the economy has returned to something near normal — and i don’t think it’s an impossibility that uk would be left out of such groups if it doesn’t have a similar evolution of its football program to match the standards of funding, facilities, etc.
add in concessions, parking and souvenirs and you easily get to $3 million dollars.
assuming the $820 million figure reasonably reflects the university’s fair claim on the state’s bonding capacity, something i’m not willing to concede, anecdotal evidence suggests any bonding proposals by the university for uk athletics are not being warmly received in frankfort.
if they are going to sink more money into athletics, it’s going to be into basketball, where there is a virtual guaranteed roi.
they’ll increase the money as needed to keep us “respectable” in the sec.
check out the sb  nation youtube channel!
the basketball program is the sacred cow at kentucky, and it will  get what it needs one way or the other.
but, imo, that would be a short sighted perspective.
by greg alan edwards on nov 7, 2011 3:09 pm est up reply actions community blog posts and discussion.
:-) blue... there is no other color to bleed !!!
but before you wax all polemic, consider that there are many  good causes requiring money that uk can borrow, and sports is understandably  not at the very top of the list.
interest rates are low but so are state revenues.
football would require a much more serious and ultimately uncertain effort.
but, tucked away in that huge cost center that is uk, you find that uk athletics is a ‘profit center,’ not only paying its own way but actually throwing off $20 million in diverted revenue to the university.
a combination arena/stadium might be the only way to get football facilities upgraded.
on one hand it assumes filling the stadium for each game on the rosy assumption but it also doesn’t take into account higher seat prices justified with a better product, increases in the blue white fund requirements, increases in alumni donations to the school and all of the incremental boost in revenue that comes with a successful program and the positive national press that derives from success.
at first glance, even for the rabid fans of the bbn, the choice seems reasonably straight forward.
lexington, the city, will make it happen.
the basketball program is the sacred cow at kentucky, and it will get what it needs one way or the other.
alabama and florida and tennessee football fans are like that — they will fill their stadiums regardless (especially since they probably know that if the team does really badly, they’ll get a new coach).
i can only say it’s disappointing and even a bit amazing that we find ourselves in this position.
what kind of tv contract would that demand for these schools – nothing.
the answer to why uk's football team is underfunded by glenn logan on nov 7, 2011 12:43 am est in kentucky wildcats football tweet email print there has been much debate on this blog and others about why kentucky  doesn't draw in the great recruits, great coaches, and produce football teams  that are competitive with the other schools in the sec.
that $820 million number is set by the state legislature.
i am now and shall forever be the cat in the hat, the artist formerly known as abc!!!
by a2d2 on nov 7, 2011 7:35 am est reply actions
just taking this years attendance figures we’ve left about 60000 seats empty for the six games held at commonwealth and we still have another home game on the schedule.
tweet 24 comments | 0 recs | read more: kentucky wildcatssign in with your yahoo!
in sum, it is a much longer-term roi on football compared to basketball, even though the numbers are much bigger in the end.
but that too would be a choice.
but football is not, and the  reason is that the uk athletics administration cannot borrow money independent  of the university.
by teamweaver on nov 7, 2011 5:57 am est up reply actions imo, the place to start is with this number… “in the decade of this ad’s tenure, the trustees received $820 million in bonding debt authority.”
as matt said, this is a matter that deserves public discussion about where the flagship university of the commonwealth should put its priorities.
by a2d2 on nov 7, 2011 7:51 am est up reply actions a sea of blue -- kentucky sports for the discerning fan by glenn logan on nov 7, 2011 7:59 am est up reply actions
by eagletdl on nov 7, 2011 8:08 am est reply actions that louisville makes than uk makes, i am gonna unload on them.
- ambrose bierce by hoboat33 on nov 7, 2011 2:43 pm est up reply actions has connotations far reaching beyond today’s money, today’s players, and today’s fans.
matt jones at ksr highlighted an important piece at the herald-leader,  where a uk trustee explains in detail most of the reasons uk doesn't spend the  cash to upgrade the facilities to sec level.
newsletter signup about us frequently asked questions terms of use privacy policy guiding principles advertise with us contact us certain photos copyright © 2012 by associated press or getty images.
suffice it to say that the football program has a lot of competition  for the dollars it needs to upgrade facilities.
by teamweaver on nov 7, 2011 5:28 am est reply actions 2 recs … and a very lucid argument.
and this article sounds ominous… hat tip to teamweaver is this post.
i woke up feeling blue this morning.
doubt the power of money?
we talk about randall probably a little too much.
suffice it to say that the football program has a lot of competition for the dollars it needs to upgrade facilities.
on the other hand, bonding capacity can be found for the new university of kentucky albert b. chandler hospital.
2012 nfl mock draft ufc ncaa tournament 2012 schedule nba trade rumors daytona 500 2012 nfl draft 2012 glenn logan bigskycat ken howlett jleverenz jc25 a2d2 alex scutchfield copyright © 2012 vox media, inc.
those schools will throw money at their football programs because the fans make it a priority, and because, like uk basketball, it’s a virtual guaranteed money-maker.
any bonds sold to finance the construction of new facilities would have to be amortized over the term of the bonds – interest and principal.
i totally agree with glenn in that we cannot simply build a new stadium with the “build it and they will come” rationale.
i only had a few schools that taught my subject.
a sea of blue -- kentucky sports for the discerning fan by glenn logan on nov 7, 2011 8:00 am est up reply actions
honestly, i’ve looked and i can’t find a good figure for the actual revenue directly attributable to commonwealth stadium or rupp arena
plus, building a team in the sec to the level that would fully leverage a new or substantially upgraded stadium is a dicey proposition at best – the competition is not going to just sit back and say, “look, kentucky’s trying to compete in football, too.
can we not just make sure the trustees holding the purse strings take some economic and investment style decisions?
by greg alan edwards on nov 7, 2011 8:31 am est reply actions
kentucky is supposed to be an academic  institution first, and it looks to me like they are putting their money where  their mission is.
they are decades ahead and making up that ground in any significant degree is probably too costly to consider.
uk football on the other hand can’t have a down year, or the fans go away again.
however, such an investment on the part of the uk would be costly.
so far, no one seems to be willing to look farther than next weekdown the road.
arizona had no school that tought my subject
we (these schools) would be begging almost any conference for admittance.
that number is based on the released attendance figures which tend to be inflated.
but i’m willing to bet doubling and quadrupling it is a big number with a similar impact on the amount contributed by uk athletics to the university.
some would think that a reasonable burden for them to bear and i would be one of those, but other constituencies would disagree.
as you can well believe, there are no budget surpluses at uk and the administration has already built the funds coming from uk athletics into their long-term budget projections, probably into perpetuity.
i am sure he has begged and begged for more leash to spend more on football.
now if a playoff system were instituted then we might have to upgrade or be replaced but even then i am not sure.
not, look at how great florida is.
i encourage each and every one of you who have wondered about what structural problems hold back uk from creating the kinds of programs we see everywhere around the sec to read matt's post and the herald-leader article.
i also think a lot of people might owe him an apology.
even when we have a bad year (for us anyway), the national focus is “what has happened to kentucky?”
to obtain a roi, someone must be first interested in making the investment.
a man is nothing more than a summation of his scars!
exciting sports coverage.
a sea of blue -- kentucky sports for the discerning fan by glenn logan on nov 7, 2011 8:11 am est up reply actions that greg linked to yesterday?
i do expect that sports economics (read: football becoming the overriding factor in reorganization) will eventually force the university to rethink its priorities.
this was a great comment, tw, worthy of a front-paged fanpost.
thus they would join other basketball-first schools such as duke, indiana, kansas, memphis, vanderbilt, villanova, perhaps even uconn and syracuse, and those that do not field fb teams: georgetown, st. john’s, et al.
if i had listened, i wouldn’t be here today, living and dying, with the choices i made i guess we now know how things really are in a lot of ways.
what if alabama, lsu, auburn, taam, florida, georgia, arkansas and tennesee (?) were to decide that their fortunes lied elsewhere under a different structure, forming a super-conference.
maybe this would include inviting a texas, oklahoma, florida state and notre dame, with another two additional schools at a later date.
no matter how good florida or sc or ut or really any of the other schools might be, the focus is always on uk.
why would i you know.
that answer might not necessarily mean more money to athletics.
the simple thing is this: this can be changed.
by twocee on nov 7, 2011 2:00 pm est up reply actions
but you know what they say about life and fairness.
in addition to the political climate in frankfort, this tradeoff reflects the priorities of the board of trustees and their willingness to champion the university’s funding proposals.
many of us have  lamented kentucky's apparent lack of support for the football program, and  pointed the finger mostly at the athletics department.
read more: kentucky wildcats
the flip side to that is that the potential cash cow that is the athletics department, and in particular, the football program, is getting starved for money.
navigation: jump to content areas: screen name password remember forgot password?
the other question is, what if they do spend this money?
if basketball wants a new arena, they will eventually get one, and we both know this.
i simply don’t see the economics working to convince the trustees to put more money into football.
i think respectable to them will mean an occasional lower tier bowl appearance and a .500 record, with a couple of sec wins.
having discussed the big ticket items above, a large number of the projects kentucky athletics would like to build would be much smaller and, although geared toward improving recruiting or the competitive success of our various teams, they wouldn’t be expected to materially bring more money into uk athletics.
further, anecdotal estimates suggest that a new football stadium could expect todouble the revenue currently earned by commonwealth stadium.
of course, it isn't the whole story, but the reality is that kentucky cannot fund major projects like a stadium renovation entirely out of private funds.
more money and bonding capacity would have to be found.
"man i don't want to talk about guys (moss) who left us, you know.
but football is not, and the reason is that the uk athletics administration cannot borrow money independent of the university.
the rupp situation will be fixed, the commonwealth situation will not.
by greg alan edwards on nov 7, 2011 9:24 am est up reply actions earlier response to gae: appreciate link, good read, new perspective.
reality suggests the university’s bonding needs are limited by the competing requirements of the various political constituencies under the commonwealth’s umbrella debt service capacity.
while such a sum would be enough to build a new basketball arena or renovate commonwealth, it probably couldn’t do both and certainly couldn’t cover the full cost of building a new football stadium.
it is a revealing, almost  exposé-like look into many of the ins and outs of who gets money and  why.
many of us have lamented kentucky's apparent lack of support for the football program, and pointed the finger mostly at the athletics department.
of course, it isn't the whole story, but the reality is that kentucky  cannot fund major projects like a stadium renovation entirely out of private  funds.
it is a revealing, almost exposé-like look into many of the ins and outs of who gets money and why.
war is god's way of teaching americans geography.
note the words of edward dahlberg: "there is a strange and mighty race of people called the americans who are rapidly becoming the coldest in the world because of this cruel, man-eating idol, lucre.
this is simple economics, you have to spend money to make money and this is a very basic look.
the flip side to that is that the potential cash cow that is the athletics  department, and in particular, the football program, is getting starved for  money.
they have to have the ability to borrow money, and that province  is reserved to a board of trustees that is very reluctant to dole out the  ability to borrow cash to athletics.
more butts in the seats means increases gate revenue, parking revenue, concessions, jerseys, donations to athletics and donations to the general fund.
they could just walk away from the sec couldn’t they – what’s to stop them – loyalty, that’s a joke when it comes to greed and power.
the question in my mind is, how did we get here??
it may be that is the main factor holding football back.
for football to make more moolah than basketball and get a lot less payback.
why are we the only sec organization to do this, and again referencing the article, why do we not get funded out of the general fund??
imo this could happen and the sec be left with the remaining schools who are the perennial cellar dwellers.
however, attracting more in-state students actually expands the tuition/cost deficit that state funding has to fill and more students in general further increases the demand pressure on the commonwealth’s limited bonding capacity to expand dorms, classrooms, etc. – accentuating the funding problem for uk athletics.
the university of kentucky is a service center of the commonwealth and in real terms that mean’s
a conference full of great teams cannibalizes itself in football.
blue... there is no other color to bleed !!!
i encourage each and every one of you who have wondered about what  structural problems hold back uk from creating the kinds of programs we see  everywhere around the sec to read matt's post and the herald-leader  article.
matt jones at ksr highlighted an important piece at the herald-leader, where a uk trustee explains in detail most of the reasons uk doesn't spend the cash to upgrade the facilities to sec level.
this ought to provide good fodder for discussion.
but before you wax all polemic, consider that there are many good causes requiring money that uk can borrow, and sports is understandably not at the very top of the list.
display: expanded collapsed bring good students.
- ambrose bierce by hoboat33 on nov 7, 2011 1:05 pm est reply actions you are still asking an organization that historically thinks of football as an afterthought to throw dollars after an assumed roi.
but i honestly think expecting or asking for more than that is a losing proposition.
so, even if bonds could be used to finance these smaller projects, payments of interest and principal would cut directly into the funds available to distribute to the university.
i knew that athletics dept gave money back to uk, but what i didn’t know was that we are theonly sec team to do so… but only at uk is athletics required to help fund the university at its own peril
you assume that putting more money into recruiting and more money into facilities that are not a stadium will improve the level of play enough to fill commonwealth stadium game after game.
but it’s a discussion worth having, i think.
you can put it on the board....
by kansasukcat on nov 7, 2011 6:00 pm est up reply actions
id sign in with facebook use openid openid remember don't have openid?sign up by glenn logan on nov 7, 2011 12:43 am est in kentucky wildcats
i don’t think that the organization will take that bet.
that is a sizable chunk of change which seems to be an excellent investment in the future.
by a2d2 on nov 7, 2011 8:57 am est up reply actions
i will point out, though, that “if we build it, they will come” is probably wishful thinking when it comes to football.
football would take at least five years to take hold after construction, just because watching a relatively uncompetitive team, even from new seats, won’t materially increase revenue.
confirmation of what should have been obvious: uk made its choice in middle of last century and will have to live with the consequences.
for basketball, it would yield money immediately after a new arena was put into service.
by greg alan edwards on nov 7, 2011 8:34 am est up reply actions if your wings don't sweep....
by eagletdl on nov 7, 2011 9:51 am est up reply actions there were voices, telling me right form wrong
so i was going to have to move anyway, by oldkentucky on nov 7, 2011 2:58 am est reply actions the fact that you were an out-of-state student means you were a profit center for the university.
i would simply like to see more spent on football recruiting and football player facilities; not necessarily to be equal with the top sec programs like florida and alabama but several levels above our current state.
by dan harris about 24 hours ago 45 comments | 3 recs by dan harris 7 days ago 98 comments | 4 recs by dan harris 14 days ago 37 comments | 6 recs by jleverenz about 18 hours ago 3 comments by greg alan edwards 3 days ago 4 comments by greg alan edwards 4 days ago 13 comments by greg alan edwards 4 days ago 60 comments by sam henson 4 days ago 11 comments by jeffy 6 days ago 9 comments by wild weasel 6 days ago 3 comments by jleverenz 6 days ago 15 comments by greg alan edwards 7 days ago 9 comments + new fanpost all fanposts > +7 updates more from sbnation.com >
footballtweet there has been much debate on this blog and others about why kentucky doesn't draw in the great recruits, great coaches, and produce football teams that are competitive with the other schools in the sec.
any commercial use or distribution without the express written consent of associated press and getty images is strictly prohibited.
you will have to trust me on that.
yes, basketball is king at uk but i and a few others will always be the squeaky wheels.
videooriginal programming.
if your wings don't sweep....
a sea of blue -- kentucky sports for the discerning fan by glenn logan on nov 7, 2011 8:53 am est up reply actions big time
they have to have the ability to borrow money, and that province is reserved to a board of trustees that is very reluctant to dole out the ability to borrow cash to athletics.
id add a sea of blue to my yahoo!
i was living in arizona at the time.
will this make it harder for the athletics dept to do anything??
" "in times of universal deceit, telling the truth will be a revolutionary act."
if we’re not filling the current stadium, don’t even think about building a new one – it makes no economic sense.
the new boards and sound upgrades at least something.
uk football would still be an afterthought in the national media.
we need to maximize our current situation first – we have to fill the stadium for games by raising the level of play and giving the fans a reason to go to the game and back the program with dollars.
opencalais - powered by thomson reuters
similar estimates, but even more lucrative, suggest a new basketball arena modeled on the nba archetype could be expected toquadruple the revenue of rupp.
mitch tries hard, i am positive, he really is a football guy.
that elevated level of play and increased interest in the football program has a tremendous impact on the economics.
i am inclined to agree with everything in here.
regardless of the method of funding projects can’t we just simplify it to economic justification and roi?
and i think you would have to assume that at current ticket prices, as i don’t know that improved play could justify higher prices among the current fanbase.
as matt said, this is a matter that deserves public discussion about where  the flagship university of the commonwealth should put its priorities.
and no matter what the team did last year, rupp is filled to the brim.
if it was just a matter of health care needs always trumping college sports entertainment, how could arkansas be so morally corrupt as to spend $300 million to expand their athletic facilities?
i am away at a funeral, so i didn’t see it earlier.
metaphorically speaking, of course…..;-) i am now and shall forever be the cat in the hat, the artist formerly known as abc!!!
rupp is filled for exhibition games!
at an average ticket price of, say, $40 that comes to $2.4 million dollars.
it would be the university or non-revenue sports that would shoulder the cuts to finance any new construction.