there is a remedy for what is, in american eyes, football's gravest defect.
observer sport monthly
both  are easy to follow; you can immediately understand the point of each one.
if that is the case, then the failure  of the world's most popular sport to gain full acceptance in the world's most  sports-obsessed country suggests that there are, after all, limits to american  unilateralism.
any such pub would invariably be  located in an obscure corner of a large city and filled with people speaking  languages other than english.
the game's rules could be changed to make scoring much easier, which would mean  that even if the match were drawn at the end of 90 minutes, one or the other  team would almost certainly score in extra time.
each belongs to the family of games whose object is to  put a ball (or similar object) in a goal.
a fourth team sport, ice hockey, is widely played across the northern tier of the country and has a professional league with teams located across the border in canada and throughout the united states, even in cities whose climates are so benign that ice has never formed in them: indeed, the franchise in tampa, florida, won this year's championship.
they do not require elaborate equipment and satisfactory informal games can be  staged without the full complement of players.
altering the rules to encourage scoring is an old and well established  practice in american sport.
one possible reason is that such  changes would make the american version of football substantially different  from the game played everywhere else, and here americans are reluctant to be  out of step with the rest of the world.
altering the rules to encourage scoring is an old and well established practice in american sport.
this is why, perhaps, football and basketball are the team sports with the widest global appeal.
to do the same thing for football might well require dramatic modifications in the way the game is now played - the abolition of the offside rule, for example, or awarding points that count in the final score for corner kicks, which, as in prize fights that do not end in knockouts, would give an advantage to the side that makes the most determined efforts to score.
draws were more common in american football until two decades ago when, responding to the national irritation with them, the managers of the sport changed the rules.
while people from oslo to athens  and from london to vladivostok were avidly following the european football  championship in june, americans ignored it.
for  spectators they are, in a sense, alternatives.
it is no surprise that each of the two has established a beachhead in the last great expanse of unoccupied sports territory, the people's republic of china.
north americans don't need  football because they already get what it has to offer from basketball.
baseball, american football and basketball have long since put down deep roots, claimed particular seasons of the year as their own (although they now overlap) and gained the allegiance of the sports-following public.
football and basketball are also easier to play than the other team games.
they do not require elaborate equipment and satisfactory informal games can be staged without the full complement of players.
most american sports fans would regard the method used for deciding international championship matches that end in a draw even after extra time - the penalty shoot-out - as absurdly arbitrary and no more fitting a way to determine a winner than flipping a coin.
if architecture is, as is sometimes said, music set in concrete, then football and basketball may be said to be creativity embodied in team sports.
the action of a basketball game and of a football match are easier to follow than that of other team sports as well because the ball is larger than in cricket and baseball and is never hidden in a tangle of bodies or a scrum, as it is in american football and rugby.
one in particular of those three sports - basketball - poses a singular  obstacle to the national acceptance of football.
michael mandelbaum is one of america's leading authorities  on us foreign policy and international relations and the author of the ideas  that conquered the world: peace, democracy and free markets in the twenty-first  century (public affairs) printable version | send it to  a friend |
this is why, perhaps, football and basketball are the team sports with the  widest global appeal.
the changes helped to sustain, and indeed to expand, the popularity of all three, since, as one astute student of baseball put it, 'offense [scoring] is making things happen.
draws were more common in american football until two decades ago  when, responding to the national irritation with them, the managers of the  sport changed the rules.
and both football and basketball players can perfect their skills practising entirely alone.
americans want conclusive results from their games.
defense is keeping things from happening.
why have these efforts  failed?
baseball, american football and basketball have  long since put down deep roots, claimed particular seasons of the year as their  own (although they now overlap) and gained the allegiance of the  sports-following public.
the game's rules could be changed to make scoring much easier, which would mean that even if the match were drawn at the end of 90 minutes, one or the other team would almost certainly score in extra time.
if architecture is, as is sometimes said, music  set in concrete, then football and basketball may be said to be creativity  embodied in team sports.
clip privacy  policy  |  terms & conditions  |  advertising  guide  |  a-z index  |  inside guardian.co.uk   | about this site join our dating site today guardian.co.uk © guardian news and media limited 2011
the two are too similar for them both to succeed.
the rules and strategies of cricket, baseball, rugby and american football, by contrast, are less straightforward.
the observer search executive jobs  search all jobs the sports column
most american sports fans would regard the method used for deciding  international championship matches that end in a draw even after extra time -  the penalty shoot-out - as absurdly arbitrary and no more fitting a way to  determine a winner than flipping a coin.
their marked similarities, however, also mean that the two sports duplicate each other.
now collegiate games cannot end in draws and  professional contests very rarely do.
spectators see the same thing in the two games: episodes of spontaneous coordination, with players devising and implementing schemes for scoring.
there is, too, the problem of the frequency with which football matches end in a draw.
they provide the same satisfactions.
even in as large and wealthy a country as the united states, where the national appetite for playing, and even more so for watching, games is enormous, the cultural, economic and psychological space available for sport is limited and that space is already taken.
one in particular of those three sports - basketball - poses a singular obstacle to the national acceptance of football.
football and basketball are therefore the team  sports that most vividly evoke a common human fantasy: to leave the ground and  fly through the air.
they see, that is, acts of creation.
the best-selling author of the  meaning of sport explains michael mandelbaum sunday 1 august  2004
euro 2004 was the latest episode in the long history of american  indifference to the world's favourite sport, which continues despite strenuous  efforts to put the game on the same footing as america's three major team  games: baseball, american football and basketball.
and both football and basketball  players can perfect their skills practising entirely alone.
baseball and  basketball have rules forbidding draws: the two teams must play until one of  them wins.
basketball players spring  off the floor to launch shots at the basket and soar to capture missed shots as  they bounce off the rim, even as football players leap upward to intercept a  kicked ball with their heads to control it, tap it to a team-mate, or redirect  it into their opponents' goal.
why have these efforts failed?
their marked similarities, however, also mean that  the two sports duplicate each other.
football and basketball are therefore the team sports that most vividly evoke a common human fantasy: to leave the ground and fly through the air.
north americans don't need football because they already get what it has to offer from basketball.
they  see, that is, acts of creation.
it is no surprise that each of the two has established a  beachhead in the last great expanse of unoccupied sports territory, the  people's republic of china.
in the course of the 20th century, baseball, american football and basketball each did so several times.
the two games are both played partly in the air.
for spectators they are, in a sense, alternatives.
each belongs to the family of games whose object is to put a ball (or similar object) in a goal.
skip to main content euro 2004 was the latest episode in the long history of american indifference to the world's favourite sport, which continues despite strenuous efforts to put the game on the same footing as america's three major team games: baseball, american football and basketball.
why has this not happened in the us?
both are easy to follow; you can immediately understand the point of each one.
a fourth team sport, ice hockey, is widely played across the northern tier  of the country and has a professional league with teams located across the  border in canada and throughout the united states, even in cities whose  climates are so benign that ice has never formed in them: indeed, the franchise  in tampa, florida, won this year's championship.
people would much rather watch things  happen.'
if that is the case, then the failure of the world's most popular sport to gain full acceptance in the world's most sports-obsessed country suggests that there are, after all, limits to american unilateralism.
spectators see the same thing in the two games: episodes of spontaneous  coordination, with players devising and implementing schemes for scoring.
there is, too, the problem of the frequency with which football matches end  in a draw.
baseball and basketball have rules forbidding draws: the two teams must play until one of them wins.
in the course of the 20th century, baseball,  american football and basketball each did so several times.
in the united states, the only way  to see the greece-portugal final, or any other match in the tournament, was to  make a special, costly arrangement with a satellite broadcasting company or to  find a pub that was showing one of the games.
the two are too similar for  them both to succeed.
people would much rather watch things happen.'
the changes helped  to sustain, and indeed to expand, the popularity of all three, since, as one  astute student of baseball put it, 'offense [scoring] is making things happen.
the  rules and strategies of cricket, baseball, rugby and american football, by  contrast, are less straightforward.
even in  as large and wealthy a country as the united states, where the national  appetite for playing, and even more so for watching, games is enormous, the  cultural, economic and psychological space available for sport is limited and  that space is already taken.
the presence of four major team sports - more than in any other country - has made the barrier to entry in the competition for the affections and the dollars of american sports fans extraordinarily high, so high that even the world's most popular game has not been able to surmount it.
one possible reason is that such changes would make the american version of football substantially different from the game played everywhere else, and here americans are reluctant to be out of step with the rest of the world.
the presence of four major  team sports - more than in any other country - has made the barrier to entry in  the competition for the affections and the dollars of american sports fans  extraordinarily high, so high that even the world's most popular game has not  been able to surmount it.
one reason has to do with the existing popularity of the big three.
michael mandelbaum is one of america's leading authorities on us foreign policy and international relations and the author of the ideas that conquered the world: peace, democracy and free markets in the twenty-first century (public affairs)
home uk news  world news politics business & media  comment & leaders focus 7 days sport review travel  cash observer woman the observer magazine food music search
basketball players spring off the floor to launch shots at the basket and soar to capture missed shots as they bounce off the rim, even as football players leap upward to intercept a kicked ball with their heads to control it, tap it to a team-mate, or redirect it into their opponents' goal.
the action of a basketball game and of a  football match are easier to follow than that of other team sports as well  because the ball is larger than in cricket and baseball and is never hidden in  a tangle of bodies or a scrum, as it is in american football and rugby.
because the two games are similar, they have the same kind of appeal.
to do the same thing for football might well require dramatic modifications  in the way the game is now played - the abolition of the offside rule, for  example, or awarding points that count in the final score for corner kicks,  which, as in prize fights that do not end in knockouts, would give an advantage  to the side that makes the most determined efforts to score.
now collegiate games cannot end in draws and professional contests very rarely do.