there are also potential liabilities to playing basketball, even pickup basketball, for football players.
popular posts grissom back on cmt for ‘southern nights’
“i choose not to play pickup in the offseason for reasons like that,” vogler said.
“it’s just too big of a liability to get  hurt playing basketball.”
“it was a tough choice, but when it gets down to it, would you rather  dunk on somebody or get the thrill of a touchdown in front of 102,000  people?”
running back blake sims practiced briefly tuesday, but has missed every practice since spring break when he tweaked his hip playing pickup basketball.
the two said they still miss the hardwood, however.
football duo brings basketball background to field
hubbard said it was a difficult choice, but in the end decided he wanted to play football.
so who’s the better basketball player between the two?
posts - add new - powered by wordpress - designed by gabfire themes share this on facebook
head coach nick saban discourages players from  playing basketball in their time off.
“but growing up, being a man, you have choices to make.
if a guy’s going one way, you’re going to try and beat him the other way.”
“i choose not to play pickup in the offseason for reasons like  that,” vogler said.
both sports require balance, strength and speed.
running back blake sims practiced briefly  tuesday, but has missed every practice since spring break when he tweaked his  hip playing pickup basketball.
we played basketball way back in the days,” hubbard said.
view results loading ... - home - news - announcements - briefs - metro/state - national - sports - baseball - basketball - basketball (m) - basketball (w) - club sports - cross country - cross country (m) - cross country (w) - fishing - football - golf - gymnastics - rowing - soccer - softball - swimming & diving - swimming & diving (m) - swimming & diving (w) - tennis - track & field - track & field (m) - track & field (w) - volleyball - lifestyles - dance - fashion - food - games - literature - theatre - tv - opinion - videos - print edition - classifieds - advertising - contact us - gameday - changing tides - classifieds - print edition - current poll - join the cw - advertising - contact us © 2012, ↑ the crimson white log in-
by marc torrence  on april 11, 2012 12:06 am cst share tweet
that’s what you need to ask,” hubbard said.
the scene - theatre - top news - tornado ap stories - tornado coverage - tornado perspectives - track & field - track & field (m) - track & field (w) - tv - ua response - videos - volleyball - world - your views meta - log in - entries rss - comments rss - wordpress.org serving the university of alabama since 1894 - home - news - announcements - briefs - metro/state - national - sports - baseball - basketball - basketball (m) - basketball (w) - club sports - cross country - cross country (m) - cross country (w) - fishing - football - golf - gymnastics - rowing - soccer - softball - swimming & diving - swimming & diving (m) - swimming & diving (w) - tennis - track & field - track & field (m) - track & field (w) - volleyball - lifestyles - dance - fashion - food - games - literature - theatre - tv - opinion - videos - print edition - classifieds - advertising - contact us football duo brings basketball background to field by marc torrence on april 11, 2012 12:06 am cst share tweet the university of alabama football team practiced tuesday afternoon outside coleman coliseum./cw|megan
both have spoken with  grant, but said there was never a serious discussion about switching sports.
a man has to be accountable for his choices, and i just went one way and decided that’s the way i was going to go.”
the choice wasn’t so hard for vogler.
head coach nick saban discourages players from playing basketball in their time off.
there are also potential liabilities to playing basketball, even pickup  basketball, for football players.
that’s what you need to  ask,” hubbard said.
but vogler and hubbard have been battling it out long before the two joined  the alabama football team.
“me and [vogler] have had some good battles in life, especially in basketball.
both players were highly recruited in basketball and football coming out of high school.
“who’s better at what position?
“me and [vogler] have had some good battles in life, especially in  basketball.
“sometimes when you’re watching the basketball games it does get a little frustrating, but my primary focus when i got here was to play football.
“basketball is just like football and vice versa,” hubbard  said.
“i talked to him a little when i first got here,” vogler said.
“it was a tough choice, but when it gets down to it, would you rather dunk on somebody or get the thrill of a touchdown in front of 102,000 people?”
but vogler and hubbard have been battling it out long before the two joined the alabama football team.
hubbard said it was a difficult choice, but in the end decided he wanted to  play football.
both have spoken with grant, but said there was never a serious discussion about switching sports.
- cheerleaders on team usa for international competition - the great divide: old money vs. new money - jack blankenship for ua president [video] - classical identity often overlooked - alabama in cuba study abroad program, a rare opportunity for students - ‘tuscaloosa runs this’ to be printed - bama hosts warren hayes - cartoon march madness – final four polls do you think the supreme court should overturn obama’s healthcare plan?
both players were highly recruited in basketball and football coming out of  high school.
“it’s just too big of a liability to get hurt playing basketball.”
“if you want to play out on the wing, knock down a couple  of threes, i’ll be hanging out out there.”
“sometimes when you’re watching the basketball games it does get a  little frustrating, but my primary focus when i got here was to play football.
the two often find themselves lined up opposite each other in practice, whether they’re in coverage on a passing play or locked up in a blocking battle during a run.
“vogler will tell you, i was probably the first person to dunk on him,  but then he came back on and threw my shot in the stands.”
- newsletter - newsroom notes - obituaries - online exclusive - opinion - opinions - our view - photos - print edition - recovery efforts - rowing - slideshows - soccer - softball - sports - swimming & diving - swimming & diving (m) - swimming & diving (w) - tennis - tennis (m) - tennis (w) -
“it was tough,” he said.
the two often find themselves  lined up opposite each other in practice, whether they’re in coverage on  a passing play or locked up in a blocking battle during a run.
popular posts - grissom back on cmt for ‘southern nights’ - the mystery of duron carter: where is the high-powered recruit?
“but growing up, being a man,  you have choices to make.
“if you want to play out on the wing, knock down a couple of threes, i’ll be hanging out out there.”
for many dual athletes like hubbard and vogler, playing basketball can help  with skills on the football field.
the mystery of duron carter: where is the high-powered recruit?
“it’s just weight distribution.
he was even recruited by alabama basketball coach anthony grant when he coached at vcu.
“basketball is just like football and vice versa,” hubbard said.
he was even recruited by alabama basketball coach anthony  grant when he coached at vcu.
“if you want to play in the post, probably him,” vogler said of hubbard.
“if you want to play in the post, probably him,” vogler said of  hubbard.
so i’m going to keep playing football and worry about basketball when  i’m done with this sport.”
“hopefully if i’m lucky enough to get a  touchdown here in my career, i’ll say it was a lot better than taking a  dunk.”
cheerleaders on team usa for international competition the great divide: old money vs. new money jack blankenship for ua president [video] classical identity often overlooked alabama in cuba study abroad program, a rare opportunity for students ‘tuscaloosa runs this’ to be printed bama hosts warren hayes cartoon march madness – final four polls do you think the supreme court should overturn obama’s  healthcare plan?
a man has to be accountable for his choices, and i  just went one way and decided that’s the way i was going to go.”
“vogler will tell you, i was probably the first person to dunk on him, but then he came back on and threw my shot in the stands.”
smith tight end brian vogler and linebacker adrian hubbard are not strangers by any means.
for many dual athletes like hubbard and vogler, playing basketball can help with skills on the football field.
hubbard said he had offers from schools in the sec, acc and pac-12  to play basketball.
“hopefully if i’m lucky enough to get a touchdown here in my career, i’ll say it was a lot better than taking a dunk.”
both sports require balance, strength and  speed.
if a guy’s going one  way, you’re going to try and beat him the other way.”
so i’m going to keep playing football and worry about basketball when i’m done with this sport.”
hubbard said he had offers from schools in the sec, acc and pac-12 to play basketball.
the university of alabama football team practiced tuesday afternoon outside  coleman coliseum./cw|megan smith tight end brian vogler and linebacker  adrian hubbard are not strangers by any means.
recent posts - white team wins steak dinner, a-day 24-15 - print edition – april 12, 2012 - students find acting opportunities as tv extras - out-of-state students band together in new group - if the tide were the x-men recent comments - robert_foster on remember ‘innocent until proven guilty’ in trayvon martin case - brad erthal on remember ‘innocent until proven guilty’ in trayvon martin case - dropping_facts on remember ‘innocent until proven guilty’ in trayvon martin case - austingaddis on remember ‘innocent until proven guilty’ in trayvon martin case - roman122 on sunday school and sustainable energy archives - april 2012 - march 2012 - february 2012 - january 2012 - december 2011 - november 2011 - october 2011 - september 2011 - august 2011 - july 2011 - june 2011 - may 2011 - april 2011 - march 2011 - february 2011 - january 2011 - december 2010 - november 2010 - october 2010 - september 2010 - august 2010 - july 2010 - june 2010 - april 2010 - march 2010 - february 2010 - january 2010 categories - affected communities - announcements - art - baseball - basketball - basketball (m) - basketball (w) - blogs - briefs - campus - campus pulse - cartoons - city response - club sports - columns - cross country - cross country (m) - cross country (w) - cw double-take - dance - election - fashion - featured story - film - fishing - food - football - foster - games - games & puzzles - golf - golf (m) - golf (w) - gymnastics - homecoming - interactive - letters to the editor - lifestyles - literature - metro/state - multimedia - music - national - news - news?