you would have to see it to believe it.
there's too much football history, heritage, tradition and titles for fans to change their habits.
download the free orlando sentinel ucf sports app now available in the app store
but, hey, it had to end  sometime, right?conference usa leader southern miss beat the knights 78-65 and  put an end to ucf's 16-game home winning streak, but maybe the end is just the  beginning.
that's what happened last week at ucf when coach donnie  jones' knights beatmemphis for the first time in school history and center josh  crittle climbed up on the scorer's table as ucf fans rushed down from the  stands.
add the bandwagon effect (which is quite large) to these football giants which adds to mass amounts of money already, ucf will need at least a decade to even have a chance-chance meaning top 20 name recognition and the benefits that come with it.
copyright © 2012, orlando sentinel os-bianchi-ucf-southern-miss-0129-20120128 orlando dunkman: make him shoot, pass and of course dunk!
at its heart, ucf is still very much florida tech.
sure, there have been pockets of football success under current coach george o'leary and former quarterback daunte culpepper, but never sustained excellence.
the ucf crowds for games against memphis and houston have even surpassed some early-season crowds at basketball powerhouse florida.
future big east opponent louisville, averages 21,000 per game.
"we want to help start a tradition," said kruger, speaking  again through the mouth hole of his bright yellow costume.
" ucf's average attendance  (5,379) is nearly double that of futurebig east rival usf (2,872).
"ah, man, what an incredible feeling standing up there  (on the scorer's table), seeing the crowd and taking in the atmosphere,"  crittle said.
and let's face it, it's much easier for an off-broadway program like ucf to join the basketball elite than it is in football.
basketball is somewhat easier to develop and compete but football draws more natural support and is huge regarding tv revenues.
next week, after they fall to a nobody school like palm beach atlantic, mike will jump off the bandwagon, trash the school and berate the fans.
a fan dressed like a banana.
mbianchi@tribune.com.
even in  defeat, ucf students are going bananas over basketball.
maybe because the seats closest to the floor — in the jam-packed "knightmare" section — are filled with rowdy students instead of buttoned-down corporate executives.
try to imagine the delirium in the amway center if dwight stood on top of the scorer's table after the magic beat the lakers, thrusting his fists in the air and screaming euphorically as fans poured onto the floor in one mass mob of madness.
landoflibtardia at 6:01 am january 30, 2012
ucf held off a late marshall rally, claimed a 67-60 over the herd wednesday night.
with all due respect to the 19,000 fans  that traditionally fill the $500 millionamway center to watch their  dysfunctionalmagic millionaires, they don't make nearly as much noise as the  7,790 who showed up saturday night.
not only  that, but the knights average about 1,500 more fans per game than themiami  hurricanes. ask yourself this: in what other sport can ucf outdraw a more  established state program like 23rd-rankedflorida state?
you cannot differentiate between the two.
at that moment, i felt like i was on top of the world.
not saying there's as much interest in ucf basketball  as there is fsu basketball, but the knights are at least in the conversation.
ucf's athletic program is a blank canvas with fans  hungering for a masterpiece to be unveiled in football or basketball.
to: - home > sports > ucf knights is ucf closer to basketball school than football school?
"ah, man, what an incredible feeling standing up there (on the scorer's table), seeing the crowd and taking in the atmosphere," crittle said.
regarding ease of development, there is no doubt basketball is easier to develop than football.
coachhater at 12:15 pm january 30, 2012 since bedonkeyis a relative new comer to orlando, let's give a little backgrond.
(here are the full legal terms you agree to by posting a comment.)
and the best part of it all: ucf's star player — keith clanton — grew up in orlando, loves it here and hasn't asked to be traded toucla.
mike bianchi pictures: 2011-12 ucf knights basketball season pictures: 2011 ucf basketball media day pictures: ucf guard marcus jordan photos check out our sports pictures of the day topics university of central florida knights college sports university of central  florida arena university of california, los angeles atlantic coast  conference a nearly packed house.
listen to his radio show every weekday from 6 to 9 a.m. on 740-am.
the largest basketball crowd ever was 9.825, back in 2009.
follow him on twitter at bianchiwrites.
ever  outdrawing florida or florida state?
the sentinel makes no guarantee of comments' factual accuracy.
this is just bedonkey stirring the pot and jumping, ever so briefly, on the ucf bandwagon.
turning florida, florida state and miami into basketball schools would be impossible.
and if you haven't seen it, you're missing the best sports show in town.
maybe because the seats closest to the  floor — in the jam-packed "knightmare" section — are  filled with rowdy students instead of buttoned-down corporate executives.
seriously, could you imagine ucf's football program on any given saturday ever outdrawing florida or florida state?
both football and basketball are improving but under the radar sports such a baseball, track and field, soccer are the easiest to impact as we are seeing.
but, hey, it had to end sometime, right?conference usa leader southern miss beat the knights 78-65 and put an end to ucf's 16-game home winning streak, but maybe the end is just the beginning.
the ucf crowds for games against memphis and houston have even  surpassed some early-season crowds at basketball powerhouse florida.
everything you want in  a home game.
ucf's athletic program is a blank canvas with fans hungering for a masterpiece to be unveiled in football or basketball.
ucf was originally a basketball only school.
i went to a basketball game and a football frenzy  broke out.
everything you want in a home game.
« previous story more ucf knights: coverage of ucf knights sports, scores, stats, and players next story » - marcus jordan, kasey wilson lead ucf to 84-69 win over palm beach atlantic - ucf basketball aims to break two-game losing streak against palm beach atlantic comments (21) add / view comments | discussion faq stillwater at 7:37 pm january 31, 2012 1.
ucf has been to the ncaa tournament four times as a division i school and six times as a division ii school.
sure, there have been pockets of football success under current coach george o'leary and former quarterback daunte culpepper, but never sustained  excellence.
"we want to help start a tradition," said kruger, speaking again through the mouth hole of his bright yellow costume.
but at ucf, there is none  of that.
turning florida, florida state and miami into basketball  schools would be impossible.
try to imagine the delirium in the amway center if dwight stood on top of the  scorer's table after the magic beat the lakers, thrusting his fists in the air  and screaming euphorically as fans poured onto the floor in one mass mob of  madness.
century long football traditions (that continued to develop) are incomparable to 10-20 year traditions.
seriously, could you imagine ucf's football program on any given saturday
download the free orlando sentinel ucf  sports app now available in the app store
a nearly packed house.
ucf app for iphone download the free ucf sports app now available in the app store ucf apparel show off your knight pride with ucf apparel a tribune newspaper website
a fan  dressed like a banana.
- columnists - our blogs - your blogs - cartoons - videos - surveillance videos - viral videos - news videos - orlando magic videos - sports videos - entertainment videos - political videos - home delivery - place an ad - jobs - find a job - post your resume - post a job - top 100 companies - sentinel careers - higher education - cars - buy a car - autos a-z - research cars - find a dealer - other vehicles & boats - real estate - new construction - search: foreclosures database - apts & rentals - commercial property - find a realtor - what's selling - sell a home - apts & rentals - foreclosures - new construction - apts & rentals - find a realtor - what's selling - sell a home - classifieds - jobs - cars - real estate - apts & rentals - foreclosures - public notices advanced search - hot topics: - gary carter - daytona 500 - jeremy lin - kate upton - sports text alerts advanced search x - include all of these words: - include any of these words: - include this exact phrase: - exclude: - select a date range this week past 30 days past 3 months past year - create a custom date range from:
advertisement marcus jordan, tristan spurlock and isaiah sykes say they never doubted ucf would hold for win over marshall ucf held off a late marshall rally, claimed a 67-60 over the herd wednesday nigh...
ucf a basketball school?
player development is high however, as ucf turns under radar recruits into impact nfl players as good or better than most.
" ucf's average attendance (5,379) is nearly double that of futurebig east rival usf (2,872).
ask yourself this: in what other sport can ucf outdraw a more established state program like 23rd-rankedflorida state?
but at ucf, there is none of that.
it's took almost a decade before ucf football attracted enough attention that people started to say that the university as a "football" school.
not only that, but the knights average about 1,500 more fans per game than themiami hurricanes.
ucf is both a football school and basketball school.
not saying there's as much interest in ucf basketball as there is fsu basketball, but the knights are at least in the conversation.
there's too much football history, heritage,  tradition and titles for fans to change their habits.
ucf, the harvard of east orlando.
even in defeat, ucf students are going bananas over basketball.
create a custom date range from: to: home  >  sports  >  ucf knights is ucf closer to basketball school than football school?
the new arena has certainly contributed to the excitement.
include all of these words: include any of these words: include this exact phrase: select a date range this week past 30 days past 3 months past year
all comments are filtered for vulgar language, for web addresses and for e-mail addresses.
pictures: see photos from every football game from the 2011 ucf knights season pictures: see band, fans and cheerleader photos from the 2011 ucf knights football season pictures: see pictures from the 2011 ucf knights men's soccer season pictures: see pictures from the 2011 ucf knights women's soccer season reporter illiana limon blogs about ucf ...
- mike bianchi - - bio | e-mail | recent columns - related - pictures: 2011-12 ucf knights basketball season - pictures: 2011 ucf basketball media day - pictures: ucf guard marcus jordan - photos - check out our sports pictures of the day - topics - university of central florida knights - college sports - college basketball - see more topics » - x basketball college football football florida state seminoles florida state university memphis tigers amway arena miami hurricanes orlando magic houston cougars conference usa southern miss golden eagles university of central florida arena university of california, los angeles atlantic coast conference big east conference dwight howard george o'leary daunte culpepper south florida bulls
and let's  face it, it's much easier for an off-broadway program like ucf to join the  basketball elite than it is in football.
even though the 'noles are leading theacc and averaging more fans than ucf, they've only had one crowd this year bigger than the 8,700 fans who showed up at theucf arena for the memphis game.
those will cause comments to generate an error message or not to post.
"if dwight howard played in here and heard the enthusiasm we  bring, maybe we could convince him to stay," said brian kruger, a senior  in engineering speaking through the mouth hole of his banana costume.
at that moment, i  felt like i was on top of the world.
mikey, i think we'll need to add some seats before we competes.
"it was something i'll remember forever.
"if dwight howard played in here and heard the enthusiasm we bring, maybe we could convince him to stay," said brian kruger, a senior in engineering speaking through the mouth hole of his banana costume.
home winning streak ends but tradition may be just beginning comments 11:03 p.m. est, january 28, 2012 something amazing happened at ucf  saturday night.
football didn't exist at ucf until 1979.
i went to a basketball game and a football frenzy broke out.
the arena only holds a maximum of 10,000.
basketball has been played at ucf since 1969, the year after the university began holding classes.
however, on the night of which you write attendance was less than 8,000.
with all due respect to the 19,000 fans that traditionally fill the $500 millionamway center to watch their dysfunctionalmagic millionaires, they don't make nearly as much noise as the 7,790 who showed up saturday night.
and if you haven't seen it, you're missing  the best sports show in town.
which  just goes to show how relatively easy it would be to turn ucf into a basketball  school.
and besides, how does attempting to develop athletics have anything to do with reducing academics?
which just goes to show how relatively easy it would be to turn ucf into a basketball school.
if only the locals were as excited about the students' academic prospects, not just sports.
registration on orlandosentinel.com is required to comment.
copyright © 2012, orlando sentinel
- home delivery - place an ad - jobs - cars - real estate - apts & rentals - foreclosures - classifieds - public notices 74° f saturday, feb. 18, 2012 1:18 pm est - home - hot deals - shopping - events - obituaries - traffic - blogs - columnists - subscribe - send a news tip - el sentinel - contact us - local - obituaries - breaking - traffic - politics - michelle parker - orange - seminole - lake - volusia - osceola - crime - law - casey anthony - weather - radar - get email alerts - hurricane hq - hurricane guide - hurricane blog - orange - seminole - lake - osceola - volusia - marine - sports - orlando magic - nba all-star game - varsity - gators - knights - seminoles - recruiting - nascar - golf - tickets - fan shop - business - deals - personal finance - your career - technology - real estate - disney - frugal force - blog-o-nomics - social tech - entertainment - events - restaurants - bars & clubs - music - arts & theater - movies - movie times - tv - celebrity - horoscope - comics / puzzles - life/family - schools - growing bolder - moms at work - food/recipes - home/garden - fashion - religion - weddings - pets - celebrations - health - breast cancer awareness - vital signs - cancer awareness - dental health - diabetes - fitness - medicare guide - nutrition - travel - vacation deals - cruises - getaways - attractions - daily disney - beach - golf - springs - legoland - bike week - news - opinion - editorials - letters to the editor - other views - ticked off!
home winning streak ends but tradition may be just beginning mike bianchi sports commentary 11:03 p.m. est, january 28, 2012 something amazing happened at ucf saturday night.
readers may report inappropriate comments by clicking the report abuse link.
you  would have to see it to believe it.
the first basketball game was played before the school had even decided if the athletic teams should be called the knights or the citronauts.
and the best part of it all: ucf's star player — keith clanton  — grew up in orlando, loves it here and hasn't asked to be traded toucla.
more from knights notepad blog - ucf baseball wins opener, to play doubleheader saturday - ucf baseball team has high expectations for 2012 season, fired up for opener friday against long island - ucf baseball slated to have four games broadcast on television - check out the recap of our ucf athletics live chat - dallas linebacker domenic spencer signs with ucf check these out!
the beginning of a basketball tradition.
by contrast, the average crowd at rupp arena, in lexington, is around 23,000.
even though the 'noles  are leading theacc and averaging more fans than ucf, they've only had one crowd  this year bigger than the 8,700 fans who showed up at theucf arena for the  memphis game.
that's what happened last week at ucf when coach donnie jones' knights beatmemphis for the first time in school history and center josh crittle climbed up on the scorer's table as ucf fans rushed down from the stands.
the college of engineering and computer science at ucf is the best in the state.