baseball is god's way of telling us that he loves us and he wants us to be happy! :-)
but hey, watch whatever sport appeals to you.
« jerry falwell and jim wallis  | main |  » february 15, 2005 why baseball is better than football hope springs eternal.
blogroll church directory this is an archive of the old stones cry out site.
there has never been a year when we so desperately need baseball.
but i can only name about 3 baseball players.
had baseball been around when ben franklin was air bathing and enjoying a brew, he'd agree with me.[read more] tracked on february 15, 2005 05:42 pm baseball...
(i could probably name at least 2 players from each team.)
posted by: paula whidden at february 15, 2005 02:26 pm "whoever wants to know the heart and mind of america had better learn baseball.
it's just more personal.
people who during the normal season barely have contact with the fans are within a closer setting and much more relaxed and open to communicating.
pm i can name well over 5 basketball players...
pm spring training is part of what makes baseball unique.
posted by jim at february 15, 2005 07:53 am trackback pings listed below are links to weblogs that reference why baseball is better  than football: » baseball: proof that god loves us and wants us to from the  anchoress i know, i know, i'm playing with a ben franklin quote about  beer, but times, change!
as a salute to the beginning of spring training, here's the classic (1987)  boswell piece:why is baseball so much better than football?
football is over, basketball--well, can anyone name more than about five players anymore, and hockey has a death wish, with the rest of the season about to be cancelled.
this year, baseball returns to the nation's capital, and one of the  nation's best sports writers,thomas boswell, is as enthused as he can be.
i love the crack of the ball on the bat, the twack of the leather as the catcher takes in a 90 mph ball...
football is over, basketball--well, can anyone name more than about five  players anymore, and hockey has a death wish, with the rest of the season about  to be cancelled.
" --french-born historian jacque barzone posted by: jim jewell at february 15, 2005 03:58
lotharbot at february 15, 2005 05:06 pm
this year, baseball returns to the nation's capital, and one of the nation's best sports writers,thomas boswell, is as enthused as he can be.
theanchoress at february 15, 2005 01:22
even those who are considered huge, take the quiet moment to sign autographs and say "hi".
« jerry falwell and jim wallis | main | » hope springs eternal.
posted by jim at february 15, 2005 07:53
am listed below are links to weblogs that reference why baseball is better than football: » baseball: proof that god loves us and wants us to from the anchoress i know, i know, i'm playing with a ben franklin quote about beer, but times, change!
for the current site,  click here.
had baseball been around when ben franklin was air  bathing and enjoying a brew, he'd agree with me.[read more] tracked on february 15, 2005 05:42 pm
tomorrow is the first day of baseball spring  training.
i've been to spring training games in phoenix and in some ways, i like them better than the main event.
tomorrow is the first day of baseball spring training.
as a salute to the beginning of spring training, here's the classic (1987) boswell piece:why is baseball so much better than football?