i guarantee if i tried to do fantasy basketball in my office, i wouldn't get any more than three or four players.
last week, i talked about how fantasy basketball is better than fantasy  football, but the fact of the matter is that fantasy basketball can be just as  frustrating as fantasy football, and in many ways, football is the superior  product.
in fact, many of the reasons i listed last week for why i like basketball more can actually be used as a reason for why football is better.
the views expressed by rotowire.com represent only the views of the writers; they do not represent the views of the nba or any nba team.
the views expressed by rotowire.com represent only the views of   the writers; they do not represent the views of the nba or any nba  team.
nba.com is part of the turner sports and entertainment digital network
in basketball, you "lose" in turnovers even when you  pull ahead in other categories.
if you're in just one football league, it's so easy to keep track of it.
still, you wouldn't bench chris paul if he only had two games this week, would you?
when kobe bryant makes a steal and runs down the court for a thundering dunk, you can smile and say "i got credit for a steal, two points, and my field goal percentage went up slightly."
you can gain big points in a hurry.
i had to make a trade to pick up a second quarterback just because i  can't let damian beat me.
you can find out easily if a player is out, doubtful, questionable, or probable, and usually a few days before sunday.
head-to-head once a week is awesome.
and with all those games (including late games), most of which aren't on t.v., it's less fun to "watch" your games.
why  fantasy football is better than fantasy basketball
all you have to remember is what day(s) you can pick up free agents, and you can then spend about five minutes making your moves for the week.
that's what happens when you have 82 games instead of 16.
what started as a nice piece of  information for regular gamblers has become invaluable to fantasy players as  well.
when your quarterback and receiver happen  to be teammates and hook up for score?
cst anyone can do it!
when your defense returns an  interception for a touchdown?
and with all those games (including late  games), most of which aren't on t.v., it's less fun to "watch" your  games.
i'm in some head-to-head basketball leagues and the whole category thing is just kind of dull.
you can win a league without doing much more than that.
hey, i won 5-to-3-to-1 this week!
you can win a league without doing much more  than that.
the closest fantasy basketball comes to this is when a player is playing only one or two games.
i have a key week 10 battle against a rival, but my qb is on a bye.
last week, i talked about how fantasy basketball is better than fantasy football, but the fact of the matter is that fantasy basketball can be just as frustrating as fantasy football, and in many ways, football is the superior product.
i'm in some  head-to-head basketball leagues and the whole category thing is just kind of  dull.
all you have to remember is what day(s)  you can pick up free agents, and you can then spend about five minutes making  your moves for the week.
if you're in just one football league,  it's so easy to keep track of it.
commentscomments copyright © nba media ventures, llc.
you just don't have the time.
that's nice and all, but what happens when your running back explodes for a 50-yard td?
ok, i hate bye weeks, but they do add a little strategy.
i had to make a trade to pick up a second quarterback just because i can't let damian beat me.
when kobe bryant  makes a steal and runs down the court for a thundering dunk, you can smile and  say "i got credit for a steal, two points, and my field goal percentage  went up slightly."
you can find out easily if a player is out, doubtful, questionable,  or probable, and usually a few days before sunday.
your california privacy rights and terms of use.
i guarantee if i  tried to do fantasy basketball in my office, i wouldn't get any more than three  or four players.
in basketball, you "lose" in turnovers even when you pull ahead in other categories.
the big play can turn your week around.
in basketball, you  often find out about injuriesafter the game has started, when it's too  late to do anything about.
when your defense returns an interception for a touchdown?
in football, you have one  team to beat in points and you can spend all day sunday watching your  match-up.
in football, you have one team to beat in points and you can spend all day sunday watching your match-up.
in basketball, you often find out about injuriesafter the game has started, when it's too late to do anything about.
no portion of nba.com may be duplicated, redistributed or manipulated in any form.
ok, i hate bye weeks, but they do add a little  strategy.
when your quarterback and receiver happen to be teammates and hook up for score?
additionally, a basketball player is far more likely to sit out a game with minor injuries or "flu-like symptoms."
in fact, many of the reasons i listed last week for why i like  basketball more can actually be used as a reason for why football is  better.
we have one up and running in my office.
that's nice and all, but what happens when your  running back explodes for a 50-yard td?
even better, you can set up a football league very  easily.
i have a key week 10 battle against a rival, but my qb is on a  bye.
by kenn_ruby nov  6, 2009 9:42 pm
the closest fantasy basketball comes to this is  when a player is playing only one or two games.
by accessing any information beyond this page, you agree to abide by theprivacy policy /
even better, you can set up a football league very easily.
what started as a nice piece of information for regular gamblers has become invaluable to fantasy players as well.
additionally, a basketball player is far more  likely to sit out a game with minor injuries or "flu-like  symptoms."  that's what happens when you have 82 games instead of 16.