believe it or not, the run game comes basically verbatim from what the  university of colorado did in the early 1990s (except for the option runs, of  course) — football is not as complicated as people think.
moreover, walsh often combined the two zone beaters — the  horizontal and vertical stretch — with the third category, the man  beating concept, into a single “triangle” read that also was  designed to defeat man coverage.
it is important for the quarterback to pre-read the coverage to get an  indication of the coverage, but, more importantly, a progression read requires  the quarterback to know where each of the receivers will be given the pattern  called.
as anyone who reads this site knows, all  football begins as arithmetic.
increasingly, the answer to this  has been to package concepts together, such that the quarterback has different  options depending on what the defense does after the snap.
as i’ve said  previously: (more…) posted in the category: passing 15 comments how do you beat cover 2 with trips?
i’ve covered all ofthis previously, but it’s worth  mentioning again because don’t take my word for it: ryan mallett  explained it all to jon gruden recently.
my coaches were no slouches  â€“ there was an nfl pedigree throughout the staff, and they  were fresh from coaching the first pick in the nfl draft when they came to my  school.
here, arkansas runs the shallow and the wheel to the short and tight side (short side of the field and where there is only a tight-end).
recent posts new grantland blog: analyzing cleveland’s top two draft picks new grantland: andrew luck and robert griffin iii:
gruden’s eyes light up.)
while these plays were sold as attacking the full field, i often thought to myself, “if everyone comes open at the same time, aren’t we really wasting half the field, and sometimes more than half of the eligible receivers?”
i could watch these guys all day washington state’s spring game: the return of the pirate “a very wise coach once told me, ‘if you really want  play-action, you better pull a guard’” — andrew luck and  robert griffin iii agree noel mazzone’s offensive philosophy and inside zone with built in  quick screens get smart about urban meyer’s ohio state spread the real deal: longtime nfl o-line coach larry zierlein breaks down nfl  draft prospects the monster defense, overload blitzes and angle stunts smart links – kellen moore, louis ck, george whitfield, kevin  sumlin, wr nfl draft rankings – 4/13/2012 chris brown writes  and edits smart football, which is dedicated to football analysis, strategy,  philosophy and history.
[robinson] to [roy] roundtree in the spring game) at 15-20 yards downfield; i.e., behind the lbs and in front of the free safety.
offensive coordinator tom moore typically sends in three plays: two passes and a run or two runs and a pass, and peyton makes his choice among those three options.
steve spurrier, of course, is one of the masters of the fade, and this isnot the first time lsu has won a big game on a well-thrown fade.
my talent would never have allowed for me to dream of  playing after college (i considered myself blessed to be there), and i always  knew i would go into coaching.
indiana’s ben chappellthrew for 480 yards and three tds, by completing  over 70% of his passes.
in essence, the quarterback reads defenders, who dictate where the ball will go.
while both players were impressive in their play-action fakes — and someone like peyton manning is even more impressive — if you’re a linebacker or safety and you see a pulling guard, you basically can’t help but tell yourself: “it’s a run.”
progression reads require the coach/quarterback  not have their mind made up ahead of time.
calling two  plays in the huddle remains very common, however.
(more…) given that humans lack clairvoyance, there is no such thing as the perfect play-caller and thus much of the development in football strategy has centered on how to get into (or out of) a given play because the defense is well suited to defend the one that was called.
but at some point — most notably withbill walsh’s 49ers — a “new” concept began emerging, though it wasn’t actually new at all but was instead a very clever twist on what gillman had synthesized.
were it not third and 16, the automatic adjustment you’d see against this defensive look is thebubble screen.
black!”) or will kill that play so they can run the pass play (i.e. “kill! kill!”).
asbill walsh  once explained: let's go deep
here, arkansas runs the shallow and the wheel to the short and tight side  (short side of the field and where there is only a tight-end).
the  purpose here is to form atriangle read, which is formed by combining a two-man  “vertical stretch, i.e. one guy high and one guy low, and a two-man  “horizontal stretch,” i.e. one guy outside and one guy inside.
i’ve discussed lots of variants of the shallow, but one of my  favorites remainsbobby petrino’s.
the future is now  — the stars are aligning for a generation of great nfl quarterbacks draft day 2012:
progression reads: a progression read is designed to have two, three, four, or five sequential choices of where to throw the ball.
the first problem is the name, “fade.”
being third and 16 it’s not a given that indiana could convert, but this defense is not well equipped for the formation.
brian put up the photo below, followed bymuch hand-wringing: indiana uses the snag route concept to break a man wide open (shown below), and the question arises as to who to blame and if players were out of position.
the above photo, however, shows most of what you need to see: you’re probably in trouble.
» popular posts buddy ryan’s “polish goalline” tactic dana holgorsen’s west virginia “airraid” offense “a very wise coach once told me, ‘if you really want  play-action, you better pull a guard’” — andrew luck and  robert griffin iii agree the most important game in the history of the spread offense, and its  legacy former texas a&m coach mike sherman’s letter to texas high  school coaches drew brees and the saints’ pre-game chant understanding coverages and attacking them with passing game
(and if he is, you use the fake-bubble and go play.)
if #1 throttles down, the lb will come off #2 and get to his zone.
if #2 is a te or wing, then one of the stack backers (sam, will, whatever) is responsible for seam elimination (as we like to call it).
it is no surprise then that maybe the two best play-action teams in college  football season were stanford and baylor, two teams that just so happened to  produce the two best quarterbacks in college football, andrew luck and robert  griffin iii.
brian cook of mgoblog put up some photos from last week’s game between michigan and indiana, where michigan pulled out the victory but indiana’s ben chappellthrew for 480 yards and three tds, by completing over 70% of his passes.
with the trustysmash concept with the divide route.
but i prefer seven, because it leaves  more margin for error.
as simple as it seems — “run out there and i’ll throw it  up” — it’s a surprisingly subtle play, and is often taught  improperly.
this works because of numbers: there are three receivers against two short  defenders; the deep safety is not in position to tackle the bubble for a short  gain.
but now that the game is here, there’s one aspect that absolutely is at the top of my list: the game features arguably the two best quarterbacks in the league who run undoubtedly the best — and most interesting offenses.
â the best vertical  or horizontal stretches use more than two receivers, with three or more  receivers being used in various “zone flood” routes.
the answer,most coaches would agree, is most  anything you like, especially with the techniques michigan used.
i’d say that if you play cover two against trips (which can definitely be done — more on that later), the first thing an opposing coach will try you with is the smash with a divide or seam/post right down the middle.
for a 3-3-5 defense, the alignment of the #2 reciever changes who is responsible for this.
the future of the nfl: more up-tempo no-huddle how to use “backside tags” to attack the entire field in the  passing game
typically, manning gets the ball snapped with  under six seconds left on the play clock; he both wants to take his time  surveying the defense and limit late shifts before the snap.
if you caught the defense in the right look it was mathematically impossible for them to defend you: if you ran the three-level flood route against cover 2, they had two guys (a corner and a safety) to defend three receivers; and if you caught a cover 3/4-under defense with your all-curl concept, it was easy pick’ins: all this has been detailed before, and if you can identify what coverage you are facing it is still better to run a true three-level vertical stretch or five-receiver horizontal stretch against the right coverage — if you get that right, there’s very little the defense can do.
red right [formation] 24 wham [run to the right] and 70 curl [pass play].”
the base play looks like this: the post and the wheel are “alert” routes, in that they aren’t part of the basic reads but the quarterback can look at them first if the defense gives it.
the play-pass is the one fundamentally sound football play that does  everything possible to contradict the basic principles of defense.
it’s an abdication of a coach’s responsibility: it’s the coach’s job to orchestrate the assault on a defense â-
walsh realized that you could combine the horizontal and the vertical stretch to create a kind of “new” stretch, though one made up of both of gillman’s first two categories.
this is a great concept, but is quarterback intensive: the quarterback has to look for the quick pass and then reset his feet with depth and then go through another progression — not something every quarterback can do.
but let’s take a step back to understand why the triangle  stretch works, along with its negatives.
example of a “mirrored” pass pattern i have always considered myself a sort of “free thinker” when it came to football.
there are only so many candidates.
if the perfect pass play was the holy grail of  modern football, then the triangle is its best personification to date and  walsh its galahad.
the play-pass is one of the best ways to cool all of that emotion and intensity down because the object of the play-pass is to get the defensive team to commit to a fake run and then throw behind them.
if the perfect pass play was the holy grail of modern football, then the triangle is its best personification to date and walsh its galahad.
recommended reading search smart football archives select month  april 2012  march 2012  february 2012  january  2012  december 2011  november 2011  october 2011  september 2011  august 2011   july 2011  june 2011  may 2011  april 2011  march 2011  february 2011  january  2011  december 2010  october 2010  september 2010  august 2010  july 2010  june  2010  may 2010  april 2010  march 2010  february 2010  january 2010  december  2009  november 2009  october 2009  september 2009  august 2009 categories select category blogpoll books business chase stuart  defending spread defending the spread defense dialogue draft football history  game management gameplanning grab bag grantland notes offense option pass  protection passing podcast quarterbacking run game spread srs stat history stats teams of interest
responsibility: it’s the coach’s job to orchestrate the assault on  a defense â€“- why isn’t the quarterback given a specific  starting point and a full complement of options?
i’ve covered all ofthis previously, but it’s worth mentioning again because don’t take my word for it: ryan mallett explained it all to jon gruden recently.
nfl watches football display case sports memorabilia slots of vegas is the home of online slots.
passing 13 comments how to use “backside tags” to attack the entire field in the  passing game wednesday, 21 december 2011 , by :  chris this article is by my friend dan gonzalez, who, in addition to being an  expert on offense and the passing game, has written a book about both called concept passing: teaching the modern passing game.
play-action from under center: play-action from shotgun: on passing downs and when peyton is in the shotgun, you’ll see most of the traditional routes that other teams run, but far and away his favorite is the “levels” play.
all of the major “new” (in relative terms) passing concepts are based on a triangle read.
and manning’s menu of plays are both simple and have been constant  for a decade.
enter the triangle stretch.
they rarely shift and instead rely on peyton to get them to the line and find the appropriate play.
while much is rightfully made about whether a quarterback does an effective job of selling a run fake on play-action, the reality is that the offensive line plays just as big of a role in convincing a defense that a play is a run.
even  then, there were two things i knew i wanted: (1) my system would establish  itself with the dropback pass and (2) i was going to give the quarterback as  many options as possible on a given pass play.
another name for  these are high/low or hi/lo reads.
this isn’t always possible, and the fade is an outside release play, but that should be the goal every time it is called.
although i think that’s a good rule of thumb, that’s all it is: the shallow needs to be the read before the square-in.)
even as a college player, i would sit in meetings or pick up a game plan handout and roll my eyes when i saw these words attached to a pass play.
another go-to concept is three-verticals, though manning likes to look for the inside slight off play-action as a quick throw right behind the linebackers.
in reviewing the game film of both players, i couldn’t help  but marvel at how many of their touchdown passes were well designed, well  executed “shot plays” that, while impressive, pretty much just  required both quarterbacks to throw the ball to wide open receivers.
start the action today!
and manning’s menu of plays are both simple and have been constant for a decade.
once the jam and re-route is accomplished, the lb will key #1.
colts the show peyton runs is amazing not only because of its effectiveness, but  also because of its simplicity.
ipreviously discussed packaging quick passes with five-step or dropback passes together.
widen the seam route to the corner’s zone, or outside 1/3.
(note that some people have said all routes should be read high to low, including the shallow.
i’ve discussed lots of variants of the shallow, but one of my favorites remainsbobby petrino’s.
alabama came outin a quarters or split safety look, but there was some coverage bust (it’s hard to say exactly but it was probably the cornerback chasing the post route all the way inside, as shown in the video below).
(more…) this article is by my friend dan gonzalez, who, in addition to being an expert on offense and the passing game, has written a book about both called concept passing: teaching the modern passing game.
it’s a wide trips bunch (trips but detached from the formation), the corner isn’t in position to get a jam, and you’re outnumbered.
calling two plays in the huddle remains very common, however.
this kind of read calls for throwing the ball with rhythm drops — i.e. on a five-step drop, the ball is thrown to the first receiver when the fifth step hits (the“rhythm” throw), the second receiver after a hitch-up or gather step (the“read” or “gather” throw), and the third receiver after resetting the feet.
typically the linebacker runs with the slot and the quick five yarder is open,  but once he’s hit that a few times manning will hit the inside square-in  for an easy first down.
so you need to find a way to get the ball down field, or at least give  yourself a chance to do so.
while much is rightfully made about whether a quarterback does  an effective job of selling a run fake on play-action, the reality is that the  offensive line plays just as big of a role in convincing a defense that a play  is a run.
check the latest2013 superbowl odds on their sports betting blog and more.
for example, the quarterback might call “
four verticals against  cover 3 is not designed for the home run.
examples includeall-curl.
in that case you pick the most aggressive horizontal stretch of them  all,four verticals.
the insight behind the triangle is that the  horizontal and the vertical stretch are combined to create a single  straightforward read for the quarterback that provides answers no matter what  the defense presents.
i see petrino’s version as  essentially the meshing of a pro style approach with a college sensibility; the  reads are simple but there are nuances built in so that it works against almost  any coverage.
that’s all well and good, but is still cumbersome and, most importantly, the defense can still make the offense wrong after the quarterback has made his decision at the line.
gruden’s  eyes light up.)
my talent would never have allowed for me to dream of playing after college (i considered myself blessed to be there), and i always knew i would go into coaching.
they fit together through a system of pattern variations, or “tags,” which i’ve created to give the quarterback a well defined method of attacking the full width and depth of pass defenses.
this worked for the same reason the bubble screen worked: the cornerback  (one guy) can’t guard two guys (the corner route and the flat route).
osu fans, buy oklahoma state tickets including oklahoma state cowboys football tickets today.
if you caught  the defense in the right look it was mathematically impossible for them to  defend you: if you ran the three-level flood route against cover 2, they had  two guys (a corner and a safety) to defend three receivers; and if you caught a  cover 3/4-under defense with your all-curl concept, it was easy pick’ins: all this has been detailed before, and if you can identify what coverage  you are facing it is still better to run a true three-level vertical stretch or  five-receiver horizontal stretch against the right coverage — if you get  that right, there’s very little the defense can do.
as i’ve said previously: (more…)
chris also contributes tograntland as well as  elsewhere.
passing 21 comments teaching a quarterback where to throw the football tuesday, 04  january 2011 , by : chris if your quarterback can’t deliver the ball to the open receiver, it  doesn’t matter how well designed, well protected, or otherwise well  executed your pass plays are.
still, there was an abundance of mirrored pass  patterns (see diagram 1 below) in our system, where receivers on both sides of  the formation ran the same routes.
in  essence, the quarterback reads defenders, who dictate where the ball will go.
this is a great concept, but is quarterback intensive: the quarterback has to  look for the quick pass and then reset his feet with depth and then go through  another progression — not something every quarterback can do.
they  rarely shift and instead rely on peyton to get them to the line and find the  appropriate play.
believe it or not, the run game comes basically verbatim from what the university of colorado did in the early 1990s (except for the option runs, of course) — football is not as complicated as people think.
(more…) when sid gillman revolutionized and all but invented the modern passing game , he did it through a “conceptual” approach to pass plays based on three “pass concepts”.
buy top-rated adjustable basketball goal systems from the basketball hoop experts at pro dunk hoops today!
answer from mgoblog contributor (and defensive coach)
once you get the defensive team distracted and disoriented, they begin to think about options and, therefore, are susceptible to the running game.
(more…) posted in the category:
and a huge  part of that was because both of their offenses involved heavy doses of  play-action with pulling linemen.
and in the case of both stanford and baylor it also  means “power” in another sense: the“power-o” play where  the linemen block down and a backside guard pulls to lead.
the read is the same though: alert (post/wheel), shallow to square-in to  comeback.
(more…) posted in the category: offense 15 comments snag, stick, and the importance of triangles (yes, triangles) in the  passing game tuesday, 09 august 2011 , by :  chris when sid gillman revolutionized and all but invented the modern passing game , he did it through a “conceptual” approach to pass plays based on  three “pass concepts”.
even then, there were two things i knew i wanted: (1) my system would establish itself with the dropback pass and (2) i was going to give the quarterback as many options as possible on a given pass play.
this kind of read calls for throwing the ball with rhythm drops —  i.e. on a five-step drop, the ball is thrown to the first receiver when the  fifth step hits (the“rhythm” throw), the second receiver after a  hitch-up or gather step (the“read” or “gather” throw),  and the third receiver after resetting the feet.
some teach five yards
in the passing system i have coached myself (and have since installed for my clients on a consultant basis), pass plays have “frontside” and “backside” component.
i’ve described the “levels” concept (with video) previously here.
(more…) posted in the category: passing 25 comments bobby petrino’s shallow cross concept – concepts, routes, and  protection monday, 18 april 2011 , by :  chris
because football is governed by its  immutable twins of strategy — arithmetic and geometry — these  remain the foundation for all effective pass plays: simple stuff vertical stretches — these place two or three  receivers at different levels vertically up the field to “stretch”  the defense.
play-action from under center: play-action from shotgun: on passing downs and when peyton is in the shotgun, you’ll see most  of the traditional routes that other teams run, but far and away his favorite  is the “levels” play.
the answer,most coaches would agree, is most anything you like, especially with the techniques michigan used.
being third and 16 it’s not a given that indiana could  convert, but this defense is not well equipped for the formation.
against press man coverage,he should get the defender’s feet moving; the goal is not to get “around” the defender but to get through him, by making the defender move and then having the receiver run on a path immediately past him.
but,â of course, it’s not so easy to figure out what coverage the defense is in before the play; indeed, with the advent of combo coverages and pre- and post-snap shifts,â it’s often is difficult to even determine what the coverage was evenafter the play.
on the actual play, the corner sat on the flat route and the corner route — one on one with the safety who had no help to either the inside or outside, and thus had little chance to make a play — was wide open.
from bunch, the outside receiver widens on his hitch route to get the  corner to widen and then simply breaks down.
for example, the quarterback  might call “
baylor bears tickets are available now.
although i think  that’s a good rule of thumb, that’s all it is: the shallow needs to  be the read before the square-in.)
(video below courtesy ofbrophy.)
this isn’t always possible, and the fade is an outside release play, but  that should be the goal every time it is called.
baylor, being a spread team, typically used the vaunted“inverted  veer” play, which is the spread offense’s read-based adaptation of  the old power-o. regardless, for opponents of both, a pulling guard meant  trouble for stanford’s and baylor’s opponents run defenses, which,  through the use of play-action, in turn meant trouble for their pass defense.
the qb is coached to look off the free safety and throw to the #2 receiver  away from him.
as simple as it seems — “run out there and i’ll throw it up” — it’s a surprisingly subtle play, and is often taught improperly.
and it’s absolutely true.
i’ll discuss each in turn.
this worked for the same reason the bubble screen worked: the cornerback (one guy) can’t guard two guys (the corner route and the flat route).
it’s almost idiotically simple — the inside receiver runs a ten-yard in route (often dallas clark) while the outside receiver (reggie wayne, most typically) runs a five yard in-route.
how would they do that?
it’s an abdication of a coach’s
the corner and safety drop deep, and the advantage of running the shallow to this side is the tight alignment brings the linebackers in, and the shallow ends up able to outflank those guys.
once you get the defensive team distracted and disoriented, they begin to  think about options and, therefore, are susceptible to the running game.
but at some point —  most notably withbill walsh’s 49ers — a “new” concept  began emerging, though it wasn’t actually new at all but was instead a  very clever twist on what gillman had synthesized.
we were taught sound mechanics and fundamentals and our system was a complex pro-style system.
the great thing about the smash is that you can outnumber the secondary both horizontally across the field (three guys running deep and stretching two deep safeties) but also vertically (high/low of the cornerback).
examples include thesmash concept and the frontside flood concept  (seehere for a diagram and here forâ  a video).
indeed, the play-action pass is probably the best weapon offenses have, one far too often underutilized by modern spread offenses.
indiana called the“snag” concept.
as anyone who reads this site knows, all football begins as arithmetic.
it is frustrating for coaches to watch because they can see that a  receiver who is later in the progression is wide open.
(my favorite  part of this is when mallett begins discussing the hot reads and
this conjures up the idea that the receiver’s job is to release off the ball and immediately start “fading” to the sideline, where the quarterback has to throw it to an increasingly vanishing spot between the defender and the sideline.
the weakness of the triangle stretch is that it’s typically only possible to only get a two-man horizontal or vertical stretch, whereas with a true “flood” you can place three (or more) receivers across the field on a given plane to truly defeat a defense.
the backside split end going deep, and, as a result, the trips side safety has  to make a very unfortunate choice between one receiver breaking for the post  and another breaking for the corner.
another go-to concept is three-verticals,  though manning likes to look for the inside slight off play-action as a quick  throw right behind the linebackers.
typically, manning gets the ball snapped with under six seconds left on the play clock; he both wants to take his time surveying the defense and limit late shifts before the snap.
for the passing game, on early downs they run a lot of play-action, where  the goal is either to beat the defense deep (through post routes and go routes)  or to hit a deep void with a deep crossing route or corner.
for runs, he basically has three choices:outside zone (the most common), inside zone, and draw (there are a few others mixed in as well).
for the passing game, on early downs they run a lot of play-action, where the goal is either to beat the defense deep (through post routes and go routes) or to hit a deep void with a deep crossing route or corner.
buy asooners football ticket and view the sooners football schedule online.
the name  of the game for defenses is confusion and movement, and even at the lower  levels you never know how a kid might react.
the objectives are threefold: 1.
there are three types of backside tags, each encompassing a specific  way to affect the backside of a pass defense: provide outlets if the primary combination is covered.
second, the receiver must leave at least six to seven yards between him and the sidelines.
the most famous example of hitting the wheel was the second play of the game last season against alabama.
oklamhoma sooners football tickets are available now.
as a result peyton gets his team to the line  and surveys the defense.
if #1  throttles down, the lb will come off #2 and get to his zone.
the route, at least from the receiver’s perspective, should be  thought of as an almost totally vertical route.
man or “object receiver” reads — these  are not necessarily distinct from the above horizontal and vertical stretches,  but the focus is on having a route or combination of routes that will defeat  man-to-man coverage.
were it not third and 16, the automatic  adjustment you’d see against this defensive look is thebubble screen.
too often young receivers want  to outside release, get jammed, and can barely get off the line of scrimmage or  get run basically out of bounds.
to my mind, there are reallyessentially two legitimate methods: the progression read and the coverage read.
this works because of numbers: there are three receivers against two short defenders; the deep safety is not in position to tackle the bubble for a short gain.
this  conjures up the idea that the receiver’s job is to release off the ball  and immediately start “fading” to the sideline, where the  quarterback has to throw it to an increasingly vanishing spot between the  defender and the sideline.
to illustrate, let me flip the question around: if you were iu’s quarterback or offensive coordinator (or if you were michigan and iu lined up like this against you), what would you call?
although a defense has some options and disguise some things, there are only so many things a defense can do: they might be able to disguise press or loose coverage, or rotate the secondary or send an unexpected blitzer, but they can’t move a cornerback from one side of the field to the other after the snap, and there might be blitzers but there are only so many candidates.
to my  mind, there are reallyessentially two legitimate methods: the progression read  and the coverage read.
progression reads: a progression read is designed  to have two, three, four, or five sequential choices of where to throw the  ball.
cheap seats available for denver broncos tickets, san francisco 49ers tickets and seattle seahawks tickets.
well-coached safeties are instructed to not come out of the  exact middle of the field until the ball is in the air.
the read is the same though: alert (post/wheel), shallow to square-in to comeback.
let's not make this too complicated most famously, peyton manning was supposedly given three plays to choose  from on every down, though this was likely a bit of hyperbole.
coverage reads: the simple form of this requires  that a pass concept be called and the quarterback is told to “throw it to  this guy if the defender does this; throw it to that guy if the defender does  that.”
there are three main forms this concept can take: (1) a base run  play with a simple pre-snap backside pass concept built in; (2) quick passes  combined with a draw play; and (3) quick passes combined with a screen pass.
i truly  believe it is the single best tool available to take advantage of a disciplined  defense.
as a result peyton gets his team to the line and surveys the defense.
but,â of  course, it’s not so easy to figure out what coverage the defense is in before the play; indeed, with the advent of combo coverages and pre- and  post-snap shifts,â it’s often is difficult to even determine  what the coverage was evenafter the play.
(more…) posted in the category: passing 15 comments combining quick passes, run plays and screens in the same play friday, 14 october 2011 , by : chris given that humans lack clairvoyance, there is no such thing as the perfect  play-caller and thus much of the development in football strategy has centered  on how to get into (or out of) a given play because the defense is well suited  to defend the one that was called.
the weakness of the  triangle stretch is that it’s typically only possible to only get a  two-man horizontal or vertical stretch, whereas with a true “flood”  you can place three (or more) receivers across the field on a given plane to  truly defeat a defense.
black!”) or will kill that play so they can run the  pass play (i.e. “kill! kill!”).
i’ve described the “levels” concept (with video)
we were taught sound mechanics and fundamentals and our system was a  complex pro-style system.
while these plays were sold as attacking the  full field, i often thought to myself, “if everyone comes open at the  same time, aren’t we really wasting half the field, and sometimes more  than half of the eligible receivers?”
i don’t believe he can take away a seam and be able to get to a curl against quality qb/wr combos.)(more…) give the media two weeks before the super bowl and they will find every weird angle to take to fill the void:
moreover, with the rise of no-huddle offenses, there aren’t as many opportunities to call multiple plays at the lineand have the quarterback check into one or another.
(tampa two refers to a variation of cover  two where the middle linebacker drops back to cover the middle of the field; if  they use this your speedy receiver might still beat him down the middle, but if  not you have the runningback on a checkdown over the middle.)
the insight behind the triangle is that the horizontal and the vertical stretch are combined to create a single straightforward read for the quarterback that provides answers no matter what the defense presents.
for runs, he basically has three choices:outside zone (the most  common), inside zone, and draw (there are a few others mixed in as well).
(more…) the shallow cross is, quite possibly, the best pass play in football: almost any quarterback can complete it; almost any receiver can run it (though there is more nuance than maybe one might initially realize to a good shallow route); it is a way to get “speed in space” without requiring a big arm; it works against most all coverages; and throwing a few of these tends to open up big plays downfield as defenders creep up.
as shown in the image, the corner route and the flat route form the high/low portion of the read, while the flat also forms part of the horizontal or out/in stretch, with the slant-sit or snag route forming the other part.
even as a college player, i  would sit in meetings or pick up a game plan handout and roll my eyes when i  saw these words attached to a pass play.
now let’s say you are confident that you won’t get much  pressure on your passer, and you want to hit a downfield pass, high/low reads  be damned.
most of these yards came from underneath throws, but chappell hit a few big plays, including abig gainer on third and 16.
right where you want them a properly coached cover 3 defense will use its lbs to re-route and not give up easy seam throws.
do not let #2  cross your face.
well-coached safeties are instructed to not come out of the exact middle of the field until the ball is in the air.
and in the case of both stanford and baylor it also means “power” in another sense: the“power-o” play where the linemen block down and a backside guard pulls to lead.
the stack backer will hunt a crossing route by #1 while the spur/bandit will hunt inside-out; i.e., curl to deep out to quick out.
the qb is coached to look off the free safety and throw to the #2 receiver away from him.
to  illustrate, let me flip the question around: if you were iu’s quarterback  or offensive coordinator (or if you were michigan and iu lined up like this  against you), what would you call?
on the actual play, the corner sat on the flat route and the corner route  — one on one with the safety who had no help to either the inside or  outside, and thus had little chance to make a play — was wide open.
more typically, the goal is to hit the shallow, as the read is shallow to  square-in to comeback on the backside.
my coaches were no slouches â there was an nfl pedigree throughout the staff, and they were fresh from coaching the first pick in the nfl draft when they came to my school.
(tampa two refers to a variation of cover two where the middle linebacker drops back to cover the middle of the field; if they use this your speedy receiver might still beat him down the middle, but if not you have the runningback on a checkdown over the middle.)
(my favorite part of this is when mallett begins discussing the hot reads and
limitations of progression reads: a tendency to stare at the receiver that is first in the progression,  which attracts other defenders.
why isn’t the quarterback given a specific starting point and a full complement of options?
a simple way to think about it is to tell the receiver to get no wider than a yard outside the numbers (i.e. the big numbers on the field between the hashmarks and the sideline).
but it was third and  16
surprisingly, however, this supposedly natural  skill — the ability to locate and throw the ball to an open receiver  — is taught in a variety of ways, some more effective than others.
just think about what kind of effect that has on the defense.
right where you want them a properly coached cover 3 defense will use its lbs to re-route and not  give up easy seam throws.
the title is a quote from former stanford and current san francisco 49ers offensive coordinator greg roman, from the video clip below.
third, consistent with the above two points, the receiver should  actually try to lean into the defender as he bursts upfield.
second, the receiver must leave at least six to seven yards between him  and the sidelines.
at the line he’ll either say the confirming word (i.e. “black!
if #2 is a wide slot, then either the spur or bandit is responsible.
check it all out here.
it is no surprise then that maybe the two best play-action teams in college football season were stanford and baylor, two teams that just so happened to produce the two best quarterbacks in college football, andrew luck and robert griffin iii.
the answer has been to combine plays but to simplify the reads for the  quarterback.
these three categories essentially made up the full panoply of choices for  the passing game for, well, for a really long time.
the stack backer  will hunt a crossing route by #1 while the spur/bandit will hunt inside-out;  i.e., curl to deep out to quick out.
i am  honored to host his excellent article on smart football.
horizontal stretches — these place two, three,  four, or five receivers horizontally across the field or a portion of it to  “stretch” defenders from left to right or right to left (or inside  to out or outside to in).
increasingly, the answer to this has been to package concepts together, such that the quarterback has different options depending on what the defense does after the snap.
below is another diagram showing what typically happens with the coverage: (more…)
who has the best food (uh, not indianapolis);what u.s. presidents are like what super bowl (in a matchup between super bowl iii, with broadway joe, against thomas jefferson, the third president, jefferson won because he “wanted it more.”); and opinion from every blustery ex-player and coach that can be found.
when i studied our game tapes (i was in charge of the passing game quality control as a senior) and opponent scouting tapes, i was not only living in the “now” — i was also searching for the methodology that i would use when i finally got to run my own offense.
prism online casino offers cutting edge animations, great dynamics and special sound effects make up for a unique gaming experience.
we all know why cover two is called cover two: it’s  because there are two deep safeties.
at the line he’ll either say the confirming word  (i.e. “black!
this is an easy read but hard to get to quickly.
dan also previously collaborated with me on an articleabout the four verticals pass concept.
the play-pass is the one fundamentally sound football play that does everything possible to contradict the basic principles of defense.
limitations of progression reads: coverage reads: the simple form of this requires that a pass concept be called and the quarterback is told to “throw it to this guy if the defender does this; throw it to that guy if the defender does that.”
typically the linebacker runs with the slot and the quick five yarder is open, but once he’s hit that a few times manning will hit the inside square-in for an easy first down.
check out the oklahoma state cowboys schedule and get yourosu football tickets today.
but let’s say iu wanted to be more aggressive and wanted to attack more than just the corner; let’s say they wanted to put pressure — and get a numbers advantage — against both the cornerbackand the safeties.
stanford, being a  more of a pro-style offense, runs the traditional power-o numerous times every  game.
that’s all well and good, but is still cumbersome and, most  importantly, the defense can still make the offense wrong after the quarterback  has made his decision at the line.
but i prefer seven, because it leaves more margin for error.
visit bangthebook.com for the best sportsbook and bookmaker bonus information.
if #2 is a wide slot, then either the spur or bandit is  responsible.
let me count the ways saturday,  09 october 2010 , by : chris brian cook of mgoblog put up some photos from last week’s game  between michigan and indiana, where michigan pulled out the victory but
and a huge part of that was because both of their offenses involved heavy doses of play-action with pulling linemen.
it is important for the quarterback to pre-read the coverage to get an indication of the coverage, but, more importantly, a progression read requires the quarterback to know where each of the receivers will be given the pattern called.
below is a diagram and clip of the same concept, except petrino now has the square-in/dig and the shallow coming from the same side.
but it was third and 16 so you need to find a way to get the ball down field, or at least give yourself a chance to do so.
against press man coverage,he  should get the defender’s feet moving; the goal is not to get  “around” the defender but to get through him, by making the  defender move and then having the receiver run on a path immediately past him.
moreover, walsh often combined the two zone beaters — the horizontal and vertical stretch — with the third category, the man beating concept, into a single “triangle” read that also was designed to defeat man coverage.
buybaylor bears tickets and view the baylor football schedule online.
red right [formation] 24 wham [run to the right] and 70 curl  [pass play].”
[robinson] to [roy] roundtree in the spring game) at  15-20 yards downfield; i.e., behind the lbs and in front of the free safety.
it’s almost idiotically simple —  the inside receiver runs a ten-yard in route (often dallas clark) while the  outside receiver (reggie wayne, most typically) runs a five yard in-route.
prevent “matching” of the undercoverage.
there are three main forms this concept can take: (1) a base run play with a simple pre-snap backside pass concept built in; (2) quick passes combined with a draw play; and (3) quick passes combined with a screen pass.
it’s a wide trips bunch (trips but detached from the  formation), the corner isn’t in position to get a jam, and you’re  outnumbered.
this common coaching directive, in which the quarterback is given the autonomy to choose his starting point on a pass play, has always bothered me.
if #1  continues vertically up the field, the lb will continue to run with #2.
thus coaches need to  know the progression as well as the quarterback — the qb’s job is  to throw it to the first open receiver in the progression.
(more…) posted in the category: passing 12 comments wisdom on how to (try to) defend four verticals with cover 3 wednesday, 11 august 2010 , by : chris question: how would you defend the four verticals pass play  withcover 3?
this common coaching directive, in which the  quarterback is given the autonomy to choose his starting point on a pass play,  has always bothered me.
this limitation means that a triangle can be throttled by certain coverages that rotate to the triangle side.
(this is one of my  reservations about kovacs.
the above photo, however, shows most of what you need to see: you’re  probably in trouble.
baylor, being a spread team, typically used the vaunted“inverted veer” play, which is the spread offense’s read-based adaptation of the old power-o. regardless, for opponents of both, a pulling guard meant trouble for stanford’s and baylor’s opponents run defenses, which, through the use of play-action, in turn meant trouble for their pass defense.
walsh realized that you  could combine the horizontal and the vertical stretch to create a kind of  “new” stretch, though one made up of both of gillman’s first  two categories.
the corner and  safety drop deep, and the advantage of running the shallow to this side is the  tight alignment brings the linebackers in, and the shallow ends up able to  outflank those guys.
(this is one of my reservations about kovacs.
let's not make this too complicated most famously, peyton manning was supposedly given three plays to choose from on every down, though this was likely a bit of hyperbole.
steve sharik : four verticals against cover 3 [is] really a 2-on-1 against the free safety.
too often young receivers want to outside release, get jammed, and can barely get off the line of scrimmage or get run basically out of bounds.
by using the play-pass as an integral pant of your offense you are trying to take advantage of a defensive team that is very anxious very intense and very fired-up to play football.
still, there was an abundance of mirrored pass patterns (see diagram 1 below) in our system, where receivers on both sides of the formation ran the same routes.
indeed, quarterbacks have called audibles at the line of scrimmage for decades, and a few years ago the hot idea was calling multiple plays in the huddle.
i see petrino’s version as essentially the meshing of a pro style approach with a college sensibility; the reads are simple but there are nuances built in so that it works against almost any coverage.
to make this work, the coaches and quarterback must understand the exact coverage called; there might be five receivers deployed but the coverage determines which two or three are “live” for the quarterback.
quarterbacks will lose patience or think that because the first receiver  in the progression was thrown to the first time that he won’t be there  when the play is called again.
more football tickets can be found online at front row king.
the name of the game for defenses is confusion and movement, and even at the lower levels you never know how a kid might react.
(more…) posted in the category: quarterbacking 18  comments running and throwing the fade route against press coverage thursday,  14 october 2010 , by : chris this past weekend saw that old classic, the fade route, used to win a  couple huge games in the sec: the game winner in the lsu-florida game was a  fade (the second try), and south carolina’s alshon jeffrey caught several  big time fade passes against formerly #1 alabama.
in reviewing the game film of both players, i couldn’t help but marvel at how many of their touchdown passes were well designed, well executed “shot plays” that, while impressive, pretty much just required both quarterbacks to throw the ball to wide open receivers.
stanford, being a more of a pro-style offense, runs the traditional power-o numerous times every game.
foxboro ticket king is your number one source for new england patriots tickets.
the method for this is  simple: two plays are called in the huddle, and then at the line the  quarterback either confirms the first play (usually by saying a color) or  “killing” the first play which indicates that the second will be  run (by saying “kill” at the line).
while both  players were impressive in their play-action fakes — and someone like  peyton manning is even more impressive — if you’re a linebacker or  safety
the most famous example of hitting the wheel was the  second play of the game last season against alabama.
there are three types of backside tags, each encompassing a specific way to affect the backside of a pass defense: for this article, i’m going to share a little of the thinking that goes into the first category of backside tags that we teach â- in our vernacular, these combinations are called “scan reads.”
and you see a pulling guard, you basically can’t help but tell  yourself: “it’s a run.”
the qb should deliver the ball on a  relative line (a la denard
in that case you pick the most aggressive horizontal stretch of them all,four verticals.
the spur/bandit must be a superior athlete.
the purpose here is to form atriangle read, which is formed by combining a two-man “vertical stretch, i.e. one guy high and one guy low, and a two-man “horizontal stretch,” i.e. one guy outside and one guy inside.
now let’s say you are confident that you won’t get much pressure on your passer, and you want to hit a downfield pass, high/low reads be damned.
indeed, in all but specialty situations they have basically two personnel groups — two wide receivers, two tight-ends, and one running back and three wide receivers, one tight-end and one running back — and they have run the same few plays for the last decade.
if #1 continues vertically up the field, the lb will continue to run with #2.
when i studied our game tapes (i was in charge  of the passing game quality control as a senior) and opponent scouting tapes, i  was not only living in the “now” — i was also searching for  the methodology that i would use when i finally got to run my own offense.
moreover, with the rise of no-huddle  offenses, there aren’t as many opportunities to call multiple plays at  the lineand have the quarterback check into one or another.
baylor bears football tickets to all games at floyd casey stadium and away.
i’d say  that if you play cover two against trips (which can definitely be done —  more on that later), the first thing an opposing coach will try you with is the smash with a divide or seam/post right down the middle.
(more…) if your quarterback can’t deliver the ball to the open receiver, it doesn’t matter how well designed, well protected, or otherwise well executed your pass plays are.
petrino moves his guys around a bit, but, the key feature is that unlikethe airraid guys, he has his runningback and his shallow going to the same side: the back runs a wheel route to pull the underneath coverage to the sideline and up the sideline, while the other two receivers run a post and a square-in, and on the backside the receiver runs a comeback.
although a defense has some options and  disguise some things, there are only so many things a defense can do: they  might be able to disguise press or loose coverage, or rotate the secondary or  send an unexpected blitzer, but they can’t move a cornerback from one  side of the field to the other after the snap, and there might be blitzers but
the theory for all this is simple.
a simple way to think about it is to tell the receiver  to get no wider than a yard outside the numbers (i.e. the big numbers on the  field between the hashmarks and the sideline).
i am honored to host his excellent article on smart football.
dan also previously  collaborated with me on an articleabout the four verticals pass concept.
indeed, quarterbacks have called audibles at  the line of scrimmage for decades, and a few years ago the hot idea was calling  multiple plays in the huddle.
especially since run plays that  involve a pulling guard means one thing: “power,” in the lowercase  sense of lots of bodies will be at the point of attack so the defense needs to  match numbers as well.
thus if you want to break someone downfield, you need to send three guys deep.
do not let #2 cross your face.
but now that the  game is here, there’s one aspect that absolutely is at the top of my  list: the game features arguably the two best quarterbacks in the league who  run undoubtedly the best — and most interesting offenses.
surprisingly, however, this supposedly natural skill — the ability to locate and throw the ball to an open receiver — is taught in a variety of ways, some more effective than others.
examples include themesh concept from the airraid, bunch  passes and option-routes.
example of a “mirrored” pass pattern i have always considered myself a sort of “free thinker” when  it came to football.
the best vertical or horizontal stretches use more than two receivers, with three or more receivers being used in various “zone flood” routes.
(more…) question: how would you defend the four verticals pass play withcover 3?
the answer has been to combine plays but to simplify the reads for the quarterback.
(more…) posted in the category: pass protection,
all of the major “new” (in relative terms) passing  concepts are based on a triangle read.
the base play  looks like this: the post and the wheel are “alert” routes, in that they  aren’t part of the basic reads but the quarterback can look at them first  if the defense gives it.
uncategorized wildcat tag cloud airraid auburn belichick bill walsh blitz blitz beater blog  buds books chase stuart chip kelly coaching defense flexbone florida football  football history football journalism gameplanning game theory holgorsen malzahn  michigan mike leach nfl offense option passing passing game pass protection  patriots pete carroll playcalling quarterbacking reading rich rodriguez run game smash spread spread offense stats strategy tebow urban meyer wildcat zone read blogroll
the shallow cross is, quite possibly, the best pass play in football:  almost any quarterback can complete it; almost any receiver can run it (though  there is more nuance than maybe one might initially realize to a good shallow  route); it is a way to get “speed in space” without requiring a big  arm; it works against most all coverages; and throwing a few of these tends to  open up big plays downfield as defenders creep up.
third, consistent with the above two points, the receiver should actually try to lean into the defender as he bursts upfield.
for this article, i’m going to share a little of the thinking that  goes into the first category of backside tags that we teach  â€“- in our vernacular, these combinations are called  “scan reads.”
that bill walsh guy just might have been onto something.
thus if you want to break someone  downfield, you need to send three guys deep.
if #2 is a te or wing, then one of the  stack backers (sam, will, whatever) is responsible for seam elimination (as we  like to call it).
most of these yards came from underneath throws, but  chappell hit a few big plays, including abig gainer on third and 16.
because football is governed by its immutable twins of strategy — arithmetic and geometry — these remain the foundation for all effective pass plays: simple stuff these three categories essentially made up the full panoply of choices for the passing game for, well, for a really long time.
(more…) this past weekend saw that old classic, the fade route, used to win a couple huge games in the sec: the game winner in the lsu-florida game was a fade (the second try), and south carolina’s alshon jeffrey caught several big time fade passes against formerly #1 alabama.
petrino moves his guys around a bit, but, the key feature is that  unlikethe airraid guys, he has his runningback and his shallow going to the  same side: the back runs a wheel route to pull the underneath coverage to the  sideline and up the sideline, while the other two receivers run a post and a  square-in, and on the backside the receiver runs a comeback.
more typically, the goal is to hit the shallow, as the read is shallow to square-in to comeback on the backside.
score... heh heh heh...score...
by using the play-pass as an integral pant of your offense you are  trying to take advantage of a defensive team that is very anxious very intense  and very fired-up to play football.
but  let’s say iu wanted to be more aggressive and wanted to attack more than  just the corner; let’s say they wanted to put pressure — and get a  numbers advantage — against both the cornerbackand the safeties.
(the deep crossing route concept isdescribed here.)
get daily freenfl picks.
the backside safety is occupied by the backside split end going deep, and, as a result, the trips side safety has to make a very unfortunate choice between one receiver breaking for the post and another breaking for the corner.
(the illegitimate way is to simply “scan”  across — the most common tactic when a quarterback who gets in trouble  — but this should never be taught to a young quarterback as an every down  technique.)
i truly believe it is the single best tool available to take advantage of a disciplined defense.
i don’t believe he can take away a seam and be  able to get to a curl against quality qb/wr combos.)(more…) posted in the category: passing 19 comments smart football super bowl preview: manning vs. brees sunday, 07  february 2010 , by : chris give the media two weeks before the super bowl and they will find every  weird angle to take to fill the void: who has the best food (uh, not  indianapolis);what u.s. presidents are like what super bowl (in a matchup  between super bowl iii, with broadway joe, against thomas jefferson, the third  president, jefferson won because he “wanted it more.”); and opinion  from every blustery ex-player and coach that can be found.
for a 3-3-5 defense, the alignment of the #2 reciever  changes who is responsible for this.
check out this sports picks service that offers top sportsbook bonus code for top books.
offensive coordinator tom moore typically sends in  three plays: two passes and a run or two runs and a pass, and peyton makes his  choice among those three options.
below is another diagram showing what typically happens with  the coverage: (more…) posted in the category: grab bag 24  comments page 1 of 2 1 2
players can start the action with just one click and watch the paylines give away golden prizes.
this limitation means that a triangle can be throttled  by certain coverages that rotate to the triangle side.
about featured articles “a very wise coach once told me, ‘if you really want  play-action, you better pull a guard’” — andrew luck and  robert griffin iii agree monday, 23 april 2012 , by :  chris the title is a quote from former stanford and current san francisco 49ers  offensive coordinator greg roman, from the video clip below.
asbill walsh once explained: let's go deep
control safety rotation or displacement.
as  shown in the image, the corner route and the flat route form the high/low  portion of the read, while the flat also forms part of the horizontal or out/in  stretch, with the slant-sit or snag route forming the other part.
colts the show peyton runs is amazing not only because of its effectiveness, but also because of its simplicity.
from bunch, the outside receiver widens on his hitch route to get the corner to widen and then simply breaks down.
ipreviously  discussed packaging quick passes with five-step or dropback passes together.
the great thing about the smash is  that you can outnumber the secondary both horizontally across the field (three  guys running deep and stretching two deep safeties) but also vertically  (high/low of the cornerback).
take away the quick seam throw by jamming and running with #2.
four verticals against cover 3 is not designed for the home run.
the route, at least from the receiver’s perspective, should be thought of as an almost totally vertical route.
the method for this is simple: two plays are called in the huddle, and then at the line the quarterback either confirms the first play (usually by saying a color) or “killing” the first play which indicates that the second will be run (by saying “kill” at the line).
this is an easy read but hard to get to  quickly.
why every team should install its offense in three days (and other  political theories on coaching offense)
in the passing system i have coached myself (and have since installed for  my clients on a consultant basis), pass plays have “frontside” and  “backside” component.
oklamhoma sooners tickets to all games at oklahoma memorial stadium and away.
(note that some people have said all  routes should be read high to low, including the shallow.
they fit together through a system of pattern  variations, or “tags,” which i’ve created to give the  quarterback a well defined method of attacking the full width and depth of pass  defenses.
(the illegitimate way is to simply “scan” across — the most common tactic when a quarterback who gets in trouble — but this should never be taught to a young quarterback as an every down technique.)
we all know why cover two is called cover two: it’s because there are two deep safeties.
to make this work, the coaches and quarterback must understand the  exact coverage called; there might be five receivers deployed but the coverage  determines which two or three are “live” for the quarterback.
brian put  up the photo below, followed bymuch hand-wringing: indiana uses the snag route concept to break a man wide open (shown below),  and the question arises as to who to blame and if players were out of position.
but let’s take a step back to understand why the triangle stretch works, along with its negatives.
the backside safety is occupied by
alabama came outin a  quarters or split safety look, but there was some coverage bust (it’s  hard to say exactly but it was probably the cornerback chasing the post route  all the way inside, as shown in the video below).
especially since run plays that involve a pulling guard means one thing: “power,” in the lowercase sense of lots of bodies will be at the point of attack so the defense needs to match numbers as well.
the play-pass is one of the best ways to  cool all of that emotion and intensity down because the object of the play-pass  is to get the defensive team to commit to a fake run and then throw behind  them.
(the deep crossing  route concept isdescribed here.)
follow him on twitter@smartfootball and email him at  chris [at] smartfootball dot com.
jump to the 2:05 mark.
indeed, the play-action pass is probably the best weapon offenses  have, one far too often underutilized by modern spread offenses.
steve spurrier, of course, is one of the masters of the fade, and  this isnot the first time lsu has won a big game on a well-thrown fade.
indeed, in all but specialty situations they  have basically two personnel groups — two wide receivers, two tight-ends,  and one running back and three wide receivers, one tight-end and one running  back — and they have run the same few plays for the last decade.
the qb should deliver the ball on a relative line (a la denard
and it’s  absolutely true.
below is a diagram and clip of the same  concept, except petrino now has the square-in/dig and the shallow coming from  the same side.