plainfieldrob | january 2, 2008 10:26 am | reply actually, since the democrats do not have the 60 votes to cut off republican filibusters, it's quit impossible to successfully pass legislation without some repbulican/independent cooperation.
the fixer - other news - region - nation - world - blagojevich - obama - education - elections - evoter's guide - polling place - absebtee ballot - weather - current conditions - active desktop - u.s. map - state map - sports - chicago sports - scoreboard - bears - bulls - blackhawks - cubs - white sox - wolves - rush - fire - sky - colleges - top stories - pro sport - top stories - baseball - basketball - football - hockey - soccer - golf - auto racing - horse racing - scoreboard - high schools - yourseason.com - main page - boys basketball - boys soccer - football - girls basketball - girls volleyball - recruiting - schools - search - preps blogs - basketball:joe henricksen - soccer: joe trost - football: tom lemming - volleyball: phil brozynski - girls basketball: tina akouris - preps: tucker & o'brien - business - stock market - malcolm berko - opinions - open line - letters to the editor - lifestyles - astro-graph - celebrations - food - dear abby - dr. peter gott - blogs - e-town - beacon basketball - between the bylines - game guys - green house - jason's take - naperville potluck - on the move - sports beacon - entertainment - movies - rogerebert.com - centerstage - articles - bars +
disruptive funding shortfalls have ripple effects throughout the american scientific community, displacing today's scientists and discouraging tomorrow's.
now sens. dick durbin and barack obama and u.s. rep. judy biggert are trying to find a way to soften the "severe blow" to high-energy physics.
according to the congressional roll call, durbin and biggert voted in favor of the $555 billion budget, and obama -- in keeping with his recent habits -- was too busy campaigning for president to even cast a vote.
we must work together to restore funding in basic physics research to maintain america's role as the innovator in technology, to retain our leading scientific institutions and their skilled workforces, and to provide opportunities for future scientists.
will smoking ban work? is the next entry in this blog.
by beacon blog on december 21, 2007 5:29 pm | 2 comments | no trackbacks by dave parro our illinois congressional delegation went into damage-control mode friday afternoon, sending out apress release urging the bush administration to increase funding for fermilab.
leave a comment name email address url remember personal info?
apparently the united states' scientific standing in the world is important  enough totalk about, but not to fight for when it really counts.
clubs - chicago events - fitness - food - lifestyles - music - places a to z - theatre - travel & tourism - user reviews - virtual l navigator - visual arts - words - ebert - marketplace - classifieds - autos - ads - homes - pets - jobs - yellow pages - photo store - auctions - obits - classifieds - musings on the news of the day
categories: no trackbacks trackback url: http://blogs.suburbanchicagonews.com/cgi-bin/mt-tb.cgi/1423 2 comments albert | december 26, 2007 11:52 am |
so where were those three earlier this week?
to mr. parro, you might also have pointed out that had mr. hastert not quit, then perhaps our local representative might have been able to point out and work to correct the funding issue out prior to the bills approval.
the batavia research facility is facing drastic cuts after congress passed  a federal budget this week that slashed funding for the sciences.
apparently the united states' scientific standing in the world is important enough totalk about, but not to fight for when it really counts.
reply ummm last time i checked guys the democrats control both houses of congress and the conference committee.
disruptive funding shortfalls have ripple effects throughout the  american scientific community, displacing today's scientists and discouraging  tomorrow's.
their own letter sums up the situation quite well, which means they do in  fact understand why funding science is important: the facilities at fermilab are essential for the basic scientific  research that nurtures technological and scientific advances, and that fuels  american innovation.
comments (you may use html tags for style) categories - honor flight (1) - news (269) - abortion (17) - cold-case murders (14) - education (23) - elections (83) - gangs (11) - immigration (5) - missing persons (2) - oswego crash (10) - oswego family tragedy (5) - odd (3) - police (66) - politics (140) - sports (6) - inauguration (11) - legislation (15)
fermilab is one of a handful of our nation's premier  training sites for scientists, and a centerpiece of the system of doe national  laboratories.
"just think what oberweis will do with this" was the previous entry in this blog.
their own letter sums up the situation quite well, which means they do in fact understand why funding science is important: the facilities at fermilab are essential for the basic scientific research that nurtures technological and scientific advances, and that fuels american innovation.
advertise here - blogs - send
now sens.  dick durbin and barack obama and u.s. rep. judy biggert are trying to find a  way to soften the "severe blow" to high-energy physics.
monthly archives - april 2009 (6) - march 2009 (24) - february 2009 (15) - january 2009 (18) - november 2008 (1) - october 2008 (22) - july 2008 (10) - june 2008 (14) - may 2008 (16) - april 2008 (20) - march 2008 (27) - february 2008 (29) - january 2008 (36) - december 2007 (18) - november 2007 (18) - october 2007 (23) - september 2007 (26) - august 2007 (40) - july 2007 (46) - june 2007 (20) pages - subscribe to this blog's feed search about this entry this page contains a single entry by beacon blog published on december 21, 2007 5:29 pm.
kind of late to be asking the president for help.
find recent content on the main index or look in the archives to find all content.
fermilab is one of a handful of our nation's premier training sites for scientists, and a centerpiece of the system of doe national laboratories.
better late than never?
musings on the news of the day better late than never?
- contact us - reader services - advertising services - subscribe now - select a publication or site - daily publications - chicago sun-times - the beacon news - the courier news - the herald news - lake county news-sun - the naperville sun - post-tribune - the southtownstar - pioneer press - pioneer local - pioneerlocal.com - barrington courier review - buffalo grove countryside - the doings claredon hills edition - the doings hinsdale edition - the doings la grange edition - the doings oak brook edition - the doings weekly edition - the doings western springs edition - - deerfield review - elm leaves - evanston review - forest leaves - franklin park herald - journal - glencoe news - glenview announcements - highland park news - lake forester - - lake zurich courier - libertyville review - lincolnshire review - lincolnwood review - morton grove champion - mundelein review - niles herald-spectator - norridge-harwood heights news - northbrook star - - oak leaves - park ridge herald-advocate - skokie review - vernon hills review - wilmette life - winnetka talk beacon blog - home - news - crime - elections - schools -
the batavia research facility is facing drastic cuts after congress passed a federal budget this week that slashed funding for the sciences.
search search site yahoo!
- contact us - about us - advertise with us - make us your home page - newsletters - subscribe - customer service - online photo store affiliates - yourseason.com - rogerebert.com - public record search - searchchicago - homes - searchchicago - autos - searchchicago - directories - centerstage express links - obituaries - tv listings - blogs - video - photo store - the fixer form partners sun-times media - blockshopper.com - legacy.com - boocoo - zip2save my yahoo - © copyright 2010 sun-times media, llc - terms of use - privacy policy - submission guidelines - about our ads - media kit
but alas, we have no local representative any longer...
we must work together to restore funding in basic physics research  to maintain america's role as the innovator in technology, to retain our  leading scientific institutions and their skilled workforces, and to provide  opportunities for future scientists.
by beacon blog on december 21, 2007 5:29 pm | 2 comments | no trackbacks by dave parro our illinois congressional delegation went into damage-control mode friday  afternoon, sending out apress release urging the bush administration to  increase funding for fermilab.
according to the congressional roll call, durbin and biggert voted in favor  of the $555 billion budget, and obama -- in keeping with his recent habits --  was too busy campaigning for president to even cast a vote.