tyler june 19th, 2011 4:12 pm et way to write an article filled with stereotypical depictions of the  american view on soccer.
when it comes to competitive countries that should be able to win a world cup it should be like this, the more the better.
perhaps, just perhaps, it is the coaching.
why don't we have a great national team.... soccer is a very physical sport.
we are so much more respected now than we were 10 years ago but stupid articles like this are a weak attempt to keep our image at mediocre.
the truth is some of the highest paid athletes in the world are soccer players.
went to america to study for two years and was both surprised and disappointed, football-wise.
a while back, chelsea was spending 172m gbp (278.4m  usd) on player wages...that's 27 players...over 10m per player average on a  team.
we didn't score and were duly  eliminated, losing our best chance in a long time to make it to the  semi-finals.
plus they have qualified and for the last 5 world cups.
they don't understand football because they lack the ability to see  beyond the shell.
i for one would do anything to send my youngest son overseas.
back in 1998, after a dismal world cup campaign, the u.s. soccer federation created "project 2010", a blueprint to make the national team a legitimate football force by that year.
you cant measure success only by winning the world cup because you will always be a failure.
we are poor at soccer because we are not sufficiently technical let alone necessarily.
they missed the mark by not marketing hardcore  rivalries that already existed in cities like seattle and portland.
i was just an average kid, but i wrote a  report about pele in sixth grade, used to practice all the time against the  back of my garage and the local kickboard, and dreamed of being a professional  soccer player.
every game has to  have the heart and devotion of the players for it to become a success.
it's no different than bowling or darts...tell me dale earnhardt could have ran a mile without a marlboro.
finally, if you think athleticism is an issue than you don't even understand the sport.
plenty of people are sons and  grandsons of immigrants from many other places with great soccer teams.
we are currently able to provide..
if i want to see bad  acting, i'll go watch a movie with january jones.
men in america prefer more physical sports and often dismiss soccer as a "game for sissies."
in my mind they're finally starting to change this with the addition of the timbers and whitecaps this year.
alexandre july 19th, 2011 3:29 am et
corinthians is one  of the 3 biggest clubs in the world that earns more money from the sponsors.
that's how other countries operate kasonde june 17th, 2011 9:05 pm et one more thing the usa dont need to find start player like pele or diego  they need hard working and hungry players.
they  would shout yes, everyone was very excited.
u need to bleed for it.
the current fa was good in terms of getting the association to point  where it is today but in terms of making it global powerhouse,they fall  short.
dre june 17th, 2011 3:18 pm et how about your team is just crap...
if  they are carried off on a stretcher they should be off at least 5 minutes  (again player safety) and more likely 10.
after all, i love the us and  have always supported their national team.
we are much better than we were 10 years ago with almost all of our players playing in the best leagues in the world here in england or elsewhere in europe.
politics are a huge problem in ussf.
his lack of allowing "creative play" and "1 2 quick one touch passing triangulation and penetration is obvious and very alarming at this level.
never mind colleage sport, it's in  the streets where the big names of the sport are made.
greetings from holland.
what you need is culture, culture that  countries like malaysia or india lack with soccer and have plenty of in  crickett....
a while back, chelsea was spending 172m gbp (278.4m usd) on player wages...that's 27 players...over 10m per player average on a team.
so, sunil gulati and bob bradley should be replaced.
just assuming that those 32 american clubs are on par with england's in terms of youth development (which they obviously aren't) this means that american clubs are responsible for approximately 20 times as many people (1/3 number of clubs and 6 times the population) another factor is price.
dony july 24th, 2011 5:46 pm et
do you watch big european clubs  competing or even the quality of the spanish/english/italian/german leagues ...
americans play on groomed, immaculate fields and play without passion or  creativity.
my concern for the usmnt is that they do well when they have faith in  themselves but once they stop believing they lose.
no sponsors, no coverage, no money equals no sport.
stevekatherman june 19th, 2011 11:53 am et its all about money.
enough with this usa,  usa, usa shit.
it needs to be more earthy and authentic to life.
i don't call that  a sign of a bad team.
if your gonna  play a sport professionally and get paid huge sums of money for it, then a.  lose weight and get fit b. actually give it your all when playing :p
mike james june 17th, 2011 10:19 am et we have the same problem in australia.
freddy adu is perfect example.
dip june 17th, 2011 11:54 am et so should china and india......
providing opinion and in-depth analysis as well as a left field look at all  things competitive.
germany is good example of country that did not produce the most talented player but they are mos successful than argentina, portugal and spain which have produced more talented players
they also like sports that have a lot of time outs.
2) they tried to market the game to the soccer moms and kids, instead of to the rabid soccer fans that either grew up or spent time overseas, and hardcore supporters groups.
the us is not going to walk in and win, it takes an investment  in the future with youth soccer which is being done now in order to have any  success.
soccer (football) is not a sport that is part of the north american culture.
soccer is a world sports unlike american football and baseball are just popular in north america.
also,  as a benfica fan myself i would like to express my deep admiration of adu's  talent.
this sport has taken hold finally because of the  efforts of the last team to play in the world cup with that last minute win to  qualify for the next round.
whoneedsforwards june 17th,  2011 5:30 am et sir, read soccernomics by simon kuiper please, then get back to me about  why the us doesn't win at football.
you think spain won the world cup because they had the best athletes?
to move forward they need to set a new goal, and i  don't believe that has been done.
not to mention, major league soccer is picking up steam and a soccer game is a real event in seattle, portland and philly.
if you look at cities like portland, fans are coming to see  the army, and learning about the game.
soccer requires a skill and finess that can not be made up for with raw athletic ability.
living in london, i can tell you that no english person was happy to have to play us in the wc last year and everyone was happy to come out of it with a 1-1 draw.
sounds  a bit racist billy idol june 17th, 2011 8:03 am et soccer is still a game?
you see networks, corporate sponsors, and fans get half-heartedly behind the sport, but the money is nowhere near what it needs to be.
this blog was just a sad display of a lazy, biased and misinformed article.
leave your comment name: (required)
as a left back i can run, attach the ball in the air and tackle all day, but i have nothing approaching the skill and deft touch of the midfielders.
went to america to study for two years  and was both surprised and disappointed, football-wise.
we are much better than we were 10  years ago with almost all of our players playing in the best leagues in the  world here in england or elsewhere in europe.
this sport is still taking baby steps trying to embedd itself into the  americana mainstream.
the problem can be related to the "project 2010" program.
« back to main mcilroy shows bounce-back-ability, but can he win?
american men hate soccer, and f their is no support their is no world cup.
they  certainly wouldn't do it if they didn't think anyone was going to watch it.
specifically, bradley does not possess player evaluation and game management  skills.
they now have some fine ball players playing over at inter and schalke, players who know to caress the football.
bob bradley represents the us coaching philosophy.
i made a couple of spelling and  punctuation corrections.
joe shoulders june 19th, 2011 7:44 pm et the nonsense about soccer not being taken seriously by the american public  is way off.
we didn't score and were duly eliminated, losing our best chance in a long time to make it to the semi-finals.
share post | 76 comments |  add a comment | permalink ryan scails june 16th, 2011
1) when they built the league 20 years ago, they didn't focus on already  football-rabid towns.
rami june 17th, 2011 8:30 am et you can't buy football!!
for the sport to play good..
soccer has to compete with american football,  baseball, and basketball for the best athletes.
he always takes the "safe" road.
and let's not forget that we beat spain, the number ranked team in the world, and were up on brazil 2-0 on a couple of beautiful goals, at the 2009 confederations cup.
long balls are not high percentage  passes, for just like in basketball, the closer you are to your target, the  more likely you are to hit it.
not great journalism by any means.
the rest of the time there was an inordinate amount of long balls send to altidor and others.
it was so much standing around waiting for guys to stop rolling around like a 5 year old that got pushed over.
(see basketball – 10 players  – small court) (see american football – same field 6 officials...).
we're just as good as england, as we proved in the world cup i recently wrote an article on soccer in the us.
just give it some more time, the us will get there, oguchi onyewu in portugal you will win!
i have a few boys, but my youngest who is 6 adores the sport, and those that see him play know he has a future in it.
i was in south africa last year, and the biggest crowd i saw in cape town was the americans, even more than the english!
someone who will improve the us on the tactical & technical departments and enable them find what their identity is as team because i'm not sure the us team know what it is.
and those teams are a bunch of low-class, red-card getting, complaining players who would not make it on another team – because of politics they make the team.
he belongs to benfica of portugal but spent the last season on loan in the turkish second division.
the usa has been the best team in concacaf for the past decade, though mexico is making a big comeback in that respect.
while it may not be at the at spain's or germany's level, that doesn't make us bad.
after holding season  tickets in the army for 4 years.
i wonder if the journalist who wrote this knows that the us women soccer team is actually a force to reckon with.
we've had many brazilian soccer idols playing for the team such as ronaldo, rivellino and socrates and nowadays we're trying to bring back carlos tevez who played for corithians during 2005 season and also we have adriano.
6) americans love competitive sports and soccer is very competitive and  like most sports in the usa it about heart, determination and have star  player(s )to lead the team to glory and have supporting players who help the  key players 7) the only problem is that the usa have not found a playing style that  suits them, they like most team's the world they have not adopted soccer into  their culture.
you can't buy football!!
they would shout yes, everyone was very excited.
it's hard for the us.
it's just that people need to understand there is a future.
in my view there is one key factor which means america will never be a force in world football, and it is quite a simple one.
17th, 2011 9:57 pm et
wesszr june 20th, 2011 9:56 am et
the problem is the mentality, is to get the children to dream of playing soccer, finding teammates, the infrastructure, local clubs who will take in those children and train them, see them as an investment, to later sell them.
and dey should know to be better but dey
with the amount  of talented athelets on highschools and universities usa should easily be able  to develop to it's full potencial in soccer...but as you say, the problem is  not with the athelets, it is with the mentalities.
if play is stopped for an "injury" the player should be required  to stay off the turf for 2 minutes (after all they are hurt are they not?).
we ran into a problem.
great post pedro, as a portuguese citizen myself i also share your vision on the development of "soccer" in the united states.
we have the same problem in australia.
soccer is the most international sport, the most passionated, the most exciting.
usa is great at  all other sports, but never did much at soccer.
surprised to see so many people (including americans) actually love soccer.
football, or "soccer", as you americans still tend to call it, isn't a typical logically analaizable game.
i hate this unprecedented stereotype, our national team is one of the best in the world.
it paid off handsomely, with donovan scoring moments into the second half.
when i have watched the us players i see a rush to kick the ball as far up the field as possible.
let's see  how tough a soccer player is when he gets the ball in the nfl.
skill intensive sports cannot be tampered with just tweaked.
yet, when we were down one in overtime  against ghana, he did not pull donovan up.
in my mind  they're finally starting to change this with the addition of the timbers and  whitecaps this year.
spain planned for years with their investment in youth football before winning  the world cup.
i am willing to bet my entire bank account, however meager the balance  might be, that if fifa renamed the sport to "american soccer" the  united states would win the next world cup.
yet, when we were down one in overtime against ghana, he did not pull donovan up.
because its a culture, but so  far i do not see that in the us!
, but talking about the yanks it has many possible answers.
there's a popular domestic league that  makes money, and europe has many players from the us.
americans think that  football is boring.
soccer is a test of skill and strength that goes non-stop for two 45minute  half's.
sure their style of play isn't as exciting as brazil, but the way they passed the ball against germany in the semi-finals, as if they had the ball on a string, was beautiful nonetheless.
jok june 23rd, 2011 2:50 pm et united states of america will not be better in football until they accept  it as footbaal.
wrong people running this  "so called" powerful organization.
sport mimic's life, drama and all, when played well: american football does  not.
after holding season tickets in the army for 4 years.
i don't care if you say football is a lot of standing around.
americans need to understand that soccer (or football), is the world sport, not baseball, not basketball, not volleyball, not american football.
the fact is to bring talent in and develop it here, you have to have money.
don't get me wrong: i love college basketball, but when soccer is good, it's hard to beat.
that would be a start to help  the us mens national team.
that, combined with heavy snow in the northern parts  make it difficult to play in the winter time unless there is an indoor facility  nearby and this is typically reserved for the serious players.
so parents have them play, but then the kids see that the only people that  still play soccer after elementary school are the ones that got cut from every  other sport.
there is a lack of  major talent from the us squad, but i believe both of these gentlemen are  holding the current squad back even more.
that would be a start to help the us mens national team.
england have a population of around 50 million compared to our 300 million while we have 16 mls clubs, 5 nasl clubs, and 11 usl clubs compared to england's 92 league clubs.
it will never be popular in the us.
we certainly have the talent if they would choose soccer over other sports.
multiply that by thousands of kids across the country, and i  don't think you can say the interest is lacking.
when i saw him play i laughed, and wondered what the americans saw that was pele like.
not sure why there is such a emphasis on the sons and grandsons of immigrants from africa and latin america.
i don't call that a sign of a bad team.
and those teams are a bunch of low-class,  red-card getting, complaining players who would not make it on another team  – because of politics they make the team.
most grow up playing some  soccer but continue with the other sports because of possible riches isaac june 19th, 2011 12:29 pm et soccer was at almost zero just 18 years ago in the us.
given a choice of playing professional soccer where you have the financial  limitations, or something else.... what would you choose?
winning a big international championship is  the only thing that will give the mens' game a boost in the us.
derek june 17th, 2011  8:20 am et do you know anything about the sport?
they are many countries where  soccer is like a religion and their teams are still mediocre and they have few  or no international 'stars' of the game.
the us has made tremendous strides in their team's performance and has adapted well to the multinational styles of the game but still lacks the passion that the rest of the world has for the sport.
it's popular with kids because it's cheap so parents have them play, but then the kids see that the only people that still play soccer after elementary school are the ones that got cut from every other sport.
with the amount of talented athelets on highschools and universities usa should easily be able to develop to it's full potencial in soccer...but as you say, the problem is not with the athelets, it is with the mentalities.
the us has none of this, so  will struggle in mens' soccer.
united states of america will not be better in football until they accept it as footbaal.
its all about money.
the problem isn't money (e.g: brazil, uruguay, argentina, even some good  african teams like ivory coast), nor is it population (e.g: england, france,  germany, spain, portugal, netherlands).
i could point the author in the right direction to discover the reality of the sport's progress here, but when i read this broad, simplistic analysis, i really don't think it would be worth my time.
replay would help identify the "ghost" fouls and the "ghost" goals.
demóstenes june 17th, 2011 10:00 am et americans don't understand football (it's called football and not soccer).
leave the feudalistic, overspeending  to european soccer.
that is just it, soccer goes non-stop were you don't stop for a  budweiser or doritos commercial and broadcasters can't get sponsors which means  no money.
kellsbells july 19th, 2011  12:29 am et
hopefully more people will understand the game.
i could point the author in the right direction to discover the reality of  the sport's progress here, but when i read this broad, simplistic analysis, i  really don't think it would be worth my time.
take for instance: england.
landon donovan is a very good player, don't get me wrong, but with all the sons and grandsons of immigrants from latin america and africa, how has the system not produced at least one superstar?
soccer is not part of the country's culture.
i'll write another article complaining that since we have so many chinese  descendants in america, we should be pro at pingpong.
as a left  back i can run, attach the ball in the air and tackle all day, but i have  nothing approaching the skill and deft touch of the midfielders.
i would love for those people to try playing for just 30mins not 90mins and see if they still think that way...
the structure to have fantastic local and national soccer teams has been in place in the usa for a very long time.
here's a super-talented kid with skills  beyond anything we have seen the us and he has been flop because coaches  (highly educated coaches), both here and europe (where coaching education is  huge) choose to focus on what he can't do rather than what he can do better  than anyone.
not  to mention ea sports' fifa series sells more and more copies each year  domestically and not to mention espn has made a concerted effort to give soccer  more coverage..
soccer is the worlds sport and the u.s. is finally coming around.
not often noted, but the u.s. team was actually one of the more exciting teams to watch at this past summer's lackluster cup.
coruja june 17th,  2011 8:46 am et calling it football may be a good start...
we had two come-from-behind draws or wins, whereas the world's  big three (messi, ronaldo, and rooney) failed to score a single goal between  them.
im an italian/american, lived in the states for 7 years in chicago when i was younger, and yea, football didn't get much of the attention it deserved...
the us viewers which were in record numbers finally f felt that passion for the game and what it is all about.
furthermore, in the states, there are many other sports that football will never be able to compete with.
how can you expect to have a good national team when 9.5 out of 10 people  do not even know that the concacaf gold cup will be taking place right there in  the states in less than a week?
they drew with argentina and  beat spain when they had faith but when they played brazil and ghana they lost  their belief.
look at the  japanese!
plus, why would any self-respecting american kid want to pursue a soccer  career if all his peers will look at him as less of an athlete because he is  not playing a "true american sport"?
things don't change  that much in a short time.
it paid off handsomely, with donovan  scoring moments into the second half.
lulz june 17th, 2011 9:53 am et anyone who lives in the us could have already told you this.
soccer is  the worlds sport and the u.s. is finally coming around.
soccer  is a world sports unlike american football and baseball are just popular in  north america.
2) secondly the money, countries that do well at football are richer  countries they can hire the best coaches and train the players with best  services available 3)third the usa was 3rd in the 1st world cup and did well in the 1st 20  years at the world cup.
there is a lack of major talent from the us squad, but i believe both of these gentlemen are holding the current squad back even more.
corinthians is one of the 3 biggest clubs in the world that earns more money from the sponsors.
back to the u.s. team  granted we have a huge drain of our talent into football, basketball, and  baseball, etc., but i don't think that can account for the u.s. not being able  to break into soccer's upper echelon.
so, even though the u.s. didn't get by ghana (who did, after all, beat brazil to win the under 20 world cup the year before), bob bradley was given a fair shake and another chance to advance in the world cup, but down the road we may need a foreign coach to bring about a change in our mindset and establish a possession game, the one thing that can perhaps take the united states to the next level.
2 continuous 45 minutes of  play....
i guess americans just don't understand how beautiful the game is and how real competition in that sport really is exciting.
the us is no longer a growing nation or a neophyte,when it comes to  football.
cant dey  dont have soul and spirit and love
the us viewers which were in record numbers finally  f felt that passion for the game and what it is all about.
they are many countries where soccer is like a religion and their teams are still mediocre and they have few or no international 'stars' of the game.
to evaluate bob bradley's performance at the 2010 world cup, let's look at one thing he did great.
go make fun of them when your country wins as many world cups as italy has.
there is no formula, no "we need money and people".
the plan to win the world cup in 2010 was a stupidly crazy idea i laughed at back in the 90s.
people in states said he had the talent to become the next pele, but that never happened.
as worrying as the lack of success has been for the team as a whole, equally as worrying is the failure to find a phenomenon.
long balls are not high percentage passes, for just like in basketball, the closer you are to your target, the more likely you are to hit it.
99socrr june 16th, 2011 8:27 pm et we ran into a problem.
i was just an average kid, but i wrote a report about pele in sixth grade, used to practice all the time against the back of my garage and the local kickboard, and dreamed of being a professional soccer player.
when it comes to competitive countries that should be able to win a world  cup it should be like this, the more the better.
us is  the homeland of sport, keep it that way.
we certainly have  the talent if they would choose soccer over other sports.
also, there was a phenom in giussepe rossi who was born and raised in new jersey who decided to play for italy instead.
(hi, can you post this version instead?
much of the blame must go to his coaching  selections.
stop  correcting us for your cheap ego gratification, ok?
forebarca june 19th, 2011 11:21 am et
jim june 16th, 2011 7:12 pm et i could not disagree more with your "it's not in our culture"
scudag56 june 20th, 2011 7:50 am et runners up in the confederations cup in 2009 (after beating spain and  almost beating brazil in the finals) and making the round of 16 in the 2010  world cup (as far as england, mexico and portugal got).
as an american-argentine, i would like to say: "welcome to the club".
it's not just another trophy, not just something u can take away  for the weekend.
kids are coached from early  and it limits their natural ability.
first of all, football is not only the most popular worldwide sport is  also the most competitive, at club lever there are at least 10 leagues with a  similar level , serie a, torneo afa, campeonato paulista e carioca, la liga,  bundesliga, epl, eurodivise, apertura mexicano and so on...... what is  more, nowadays the idea of the big 4 (brazil, germany, italy, argentina) it  does not correspond with the reality ( wc 1998 was the turning point), and for  that reason you have brazil, argentina, germany, spain, england, uruguay ,  italy and france like powerhouses at international level , i do not think so  honestly that usa has a real chance, think in the time that spain has to wait  until win their 1st world cup.
get more money...get better, more notable talent, get better coaches...and,  the problem will solve itself.
300 million people means nothing!
manchester city is not even one tenth of what corinthians is.
the us soccer coaching education programs have killed the creativity of american players by focusing on "coaching development" rather than player development.
i don't think project 2010 was a  failure.
oh, and did you really just compare soccer's popularity with nascar, a whitetrash competition that in no way should be honored with being in the category of "sport".
what you need is culture, culture that countries like malaysia or india lack with soccer and have plenty of in crickett....
i wish i knew how to get young us talent over to clubs overseas like  barcelona, or others with youth academy programs.
why play a sport that doesn't pay as much?
there would be a lot less flopping if they know they would be off for long enough to really be checked for serious injury (they pop right off the stretcher as it is far too often).
patrick june 16th, 2011  7:55 pm et i agree that we should be better and we haven't achieved all we wanted by  2010 but in 2009 the men's national team beat the best team in the world  (spain) at the confederations cup and went toe to toe with brazil in the confed  cup final.
if usa is not the big countries im sure messi will be the  highest earning among the sportsman.. bill june  19th, 2011 8:21 am et (hi, can you post this version instead?
passion, tradition and media enthusiasm are missing where soccer's concerned.
on the other hand,  football doesn't need the americans.
they know what they have to live up to but they haven't found that identity that defines as a team..
we need a brand that looks like the streets and is not overly sanitized.
what does soccer mean?
disappointed with the fact that nobody  actually cares about the development of the sport.
especially on a national level.
so why don't you go do more research, then write a well  informed article that makes you sound like you didn't just crawl out from under  a rock...
i remember all the fuss that was made around freddy adu.
the reason football sorry soccer has not taken off is the tv stations wont push soccer is it would loose a lot of revenue on adds they run every 10 to 15 mins and in a soccer the match has to be playrd for 45 mins befor a add could be run.
once you show some results and there is media covering it, people will enjoy it.
i bet you've  heard of him.
us youth soccer is going  the wrong way fast, and the only way to improve is to start up residential  academies for all mls clubs, and pick players based on other factors than size  and strength.
its the number  one sport in every other country (for the most part)
posted by: cnn world sport anchor, pedro pinto filed under: football some pretty diluted, and generalized comments we have here.
spent some money and get guus hiddink to coach the national us team.
sorry for  the rant forza milan!
germany is good example of country  that did not produce the most talented player but they are mos successful than  argentina, portugal and spain which have produced more talented players keith r june 17th,
no team in the history of the game (as far as i know) demonstrated this better than spain at the 2010 world cup.
cristiano ronaldo as a role model?
so, even though the u.s. didn't get by ghana  (who did, after all, beat brazil to win the under 20 world cup the year  before), bob bradley was given a fair shake and another chance to advance in  the world cup, but down the road we may need a foreign coach to bring about a  change in our mindset and establish a possession game, the one thing that can  perhaps take the united states to the next level.
we've  had many brazilian soccer idols playing for the team such as ronaldo, rivellino  and socrates and nowadays we're trying to bring back carlos tevez who played  for corithians during 2005 season and also we have adriano.
as long as american football, baseball, and basketball exist, soccer will never be number one in the us.
futbol has to do with tradition and culture as it is with careful planning.
once you show some results and there is media covering it, people will  enjoy it.
yes you should learn more and not say or publish things that you don't know.
china is the second biggest economy and has 6 times the population of the us... doesnt mean it will win the world cup, india same story.
us youth soccer is going the wrong way fast, and the only way to improve is to start up residential academies for all mls clubs, and pick players based on other factors than size and strength.
if you look at cities like portland, fans are coming to see the army, and learning about the game.
plus, why would any self-respecting american kid want to pursue a soccer career if all his peers will look at him as less of an athlete because he is not playing a "true american sport"?
he was frozen in shock.
you talked about snow in the winter months being a factor, but  are you not aware that european countries also suffers from the same winter  condition.
don't get me wrong: i love college basketball,  but when soccer is good, it's hard to beat.
how fun is it to watch  a game for 3 hours only to have the final score 0-0?
soccer normally falls into a similar demographic  as basketball does in the us, impoverished families, but in the us local clubs  charge upwards of $1000 (and do so rightly as they wouldn't exist without the  funding) for players to travel whereas european clubs allow free to play  opportunities.
americans claim this sport  to be for sissies???
perhaps it's because more due to the fact that soccer is hardly an inner city sport in america, as basketball reigns supreme, but it is with the middle class of america that can be seen kicking a ball around.
living in london, i can tell  you that no english person was happy to have to play us in the wc last year and  everyone was happy to come out of it with a 1-1 draw.
4) many big team's always say that the usmnt is very hard to beat at the world cup's they may not be the most talented but they know how to frustrate big teams 5) soccer/football is very much an american sport, its the most capitalistic sport there is clubs can buy many player they want and winners takes all.
the youth  programs and leagues are money based and "win at all costs" to make  the club and coach look good in order to attract the "best" players  with money to inflate the club's accounts.
(and brazil, we'll try not to giggle when you  have a power outage during wc 2014.)
professional  system must link with youth system and create a viable farm system.
u need to  bleed for it.
cheerleaders and great beer commercials-not in soccer kt june 18th, 2011 1:12 pm et its so funny when the yanks called football a 'sissy sport'.
all around the world, football is a part of the  landscape, from the most empoverished country to the most afluent.
it's hard to squeeze commercials into a game with few (if any) disruptions.
now, a larger mistake than a lack of risk taking relates to our  style of play.
i find that men who play soccer have very litle patience with trying to explain the game to people who have not.
england have a population of around 50 million compared to our  300 million while we have 16 mls clubs, 5 nasl clubs, and 11 usl clubs compared  to england's 92 league clubs.
i could not disagree more with your "it's not in our culture" comment.
with some fans i've talked to, the enjoyment of watching the supporters groups has acted as a bridge to understanding the play on the field.
awilson  in dr july 5th, 2011 12:27 pm et coaching, first.
the problem isn't money (e.g: brazil, uruguay, argentina, even some good african teams like ivory coast), nor is it population (e.g: england, france, germany, spain, portugal, netherlands).
the average pay on the highest paid team (new york redbulls) is a bit under $450k a year per player.
17th, 2011 11:09 am et soccer wasn't always a soft sport...it's the current generation of diving  prima-donna players, crying out for the referee's attention when they've barely  been scratched, that has given it this image.
the us has the strong organizational discipline, what it doesn't have is patience.
let it simmer naturally, build the tradition and results will come.
so their top athletes play  soccer.
to move forward they need to set a new goal, and i don't believe that has been done.
one last thing, half the, uhm, "athletes" in baseball and american football really shouldn't be regarded as such.... if your gonna play a sport professionally and get paid huge sums of money for it, then a. lose weight and get fit b. actually give it your all when playing :p
we won our group in last year's  world cup and are favoured to win the gold cup.
finally, about being a soft sport, i want to be a yank, brit or from any other country outside south america playing at the morumbi, bombonera, centenario, with thousands of supporters chanting with fireworks, which can easily make you feel like a completely yellow....... of coarse america is destined for greater skies as far as footbal isconcerned they only needs to be positive if they want to develop their game
someone who will improve the us  on the tactical & technical departments and enable them find what their  identity is as team because i'm not sure the us team know what it is.
it's not just another trophy, not just something u can take away for the weekend.
if i want to see bad acting, i'll go watch a movie with january jones.
the plan to win the world cup in 2010 was a  stupidly crazy idea i laughed at back in the 90s.
look at the japanese!
they get taken off on a stretcher then hop right up when the other guy gets a card.
john kaiser july 18th, 2011 6:51 pm et i'm from brazil and i always questioned myself about this.
this sport has taken hold finally because of the efforts of the last team to play in the world cup with that last minute win to qualify for the next round.
pfff, like a lot of you said, id like to see those people play for 30mins!...
we need a brand  that looks like the streets and is not overly sanitized.
cheerleaders and great beer commercials-not in soccer its so funny when the yanks called football a 'sissy sport'.
first, we chose to  keep the old name others threw away – forty years ago the sport was  called "soccer" in the uk, and ten years ago in australia...and world  soccer magazine isn't published in the usa.
you have a country of 57m citizens and 20 premiership teams there, and their expenditures pales america's nfl with 30 teams and 300m citizens.
you can read it at http://tinyurl.com/6kd4ynr thank you its because they are such pussies now.
unlike any other sport soccer requires a true athlete with real talent.
somebody has got to do something about this.
tell me one town, schoo or company that doesn't have some kind of team in place.
the reason that soccer is not popular in the u.s. is because it is a mans  sport.
carlo june 17th, 2011 12:57 pm et the structure to have fantastic local and national soccer teams has been in  place in the usa for a very long time.
surprised to see so  many people (including americans) actually love soccer.
second, the italians don't call it "football" either ("sfera del piede" or "piedepalla" or some such).
@worldsportcnn: golf: veteran  jimenez eyes euro record: miguel angel jimenez is well-placed to become the  oldest winner on the e... http://t.co/qf1kba9b updated: fri, 16 mar 2012  22:01:37 +0000 @worldsportcnn: tennis: federer brushes aside del potro:  roger federer breezes into the semifinals of the atp masters 1000 tourn...
the lack sponsors for tv means lack of endorsements for  players and lack of tv stations that are willing to cover live games...
americans think that football is boring.
resources were allocated to produce talented players and give them a structure in which to excel.
professional system must link with youth system and create a viable farm system.
the lack sponsors for tv means lack of endorsements for players and lack of tv stations that are willing to cover live games...
the best athletes then may prefer to kick a ball rather than throw it.
they like sports where they can be undefeated.
worrell june  17th, 2011 12:38 pm et derek.
but then what other choice do  they have, cheerleading for a mans sport maybe? maria june 17th, 2011 1:26 pm et cristiano ronaldo as a role model?
its the number one sport in every other country (for the most part)
they will score about the same amount of goals and they don't stop  when someone scrapes their knee.
when i have watched the us players i see a rush to kick the ball  as far up the field as possible.
they drew with argentina and beat spain when they had faith but when they played brazil and ghana they lost their belief.
they certainly wouldn't do it if they didn't think anyone was going to watch it.
wrong people running this "so called" powerful organization.
perhaps it's because more due to  the fact that soccer is hardly an inner city sport in america, as basketball  reigns supreme, but it is with the middle class of america that can be seen  kicking a ball around.
you see networks, corporate sponsors, and fans get half-heartedly behind the  sport, but the money is nowhere near what it needs to be.
sounds a bit racist soccer is still a game?
corinthians  my life, corinthians my history, corinthians my love....
many people don't understand the  game.
it is useless to finance a team to grow into an  arsenal squad in a determined year.
alexgloc june 21st, 2011  1:15 am et hey, demostenes and the rest of you "football" fans.
they need to modernize the officiating.
winning a big international championship is the only thing that will give the mens' game a boost in the us.
mr. pinto does not  understand this game and therefore should not comment on what he does not know.
first, we chose to keep the old name others threw away – forty years ago the sport was called "soccer" in the uk, and ten years ago in australia...and world soccer magazine isn't published in the usa.
apparently every country is good at certain things be it sports or other stuff.
bert  (not the one from sesame st) june 17th, 2011 1:12 pm et looks to me like it's all about money.
pedro june 20th, 2011 9:56 pm et until the vast majority of americans get over themselves and realize that  there are other sports being played outside of the us borders (like soccer for  instance), and that they aren't the best at it, they will never be good at  soccer.
http://t.co/qxqjckj2  updated: fri, 16 mar 2012 18:11:21 +0000 @worldsportcnn: golf: tiger  'ready' for masters: tiger woods says he expects to play at the masters next  month despite pulling o... http://t.co/b9tpaadb updated: fri, 16 mar 2012  16:09:28 +0000 @worldsportcnn: swimming: thorpe's olympic dream fades:  swimming legend ian thorpe suffered a major setback friday in his bid to...  http://t.co/fz3viavl updated: fri, 16 mar 2012 16:09:03 +0000 categories
how about your team is just crap...
1)off-course the usa should be better at football/soccer.
the yanks hate soccer as you guys say it just because the world is far better than u!
diogo forte june 17th, 2011 10:11 am et great post pedro, as a portuguese citizen myself i also share your vision  on the development of "soccer" in the united states.
anonymous june 30th, 2011 12:25 pm et
the us is not going to walk in and win, it takes an investment in the future with youth soccer which is being done now in order to have any success.
j rivera june 16th, 2011 10:58 pm et
let us soccer be us soccer, and leave world soccer to itself.
i don't think project 2010 was a failure.
it's no different than bowling or darts...tell me dale
the highest in 2010 for the nfl was the washington redskins at $178.2m for about 40 players or about $4.4m per player.
enough with this usa, usa, usa shit.
they will score about the same amount of goals and they don't stop when someone scrapes their knee.
(for a nifty analysis of their passing, go to http://www.prozonesports.com/news-article-world-cup-2010-analysis.html.)
i think project 2010 was a success, because the usmnt is a lot better than what it was 10 years ago, but they need to make the next step.
it's not coincidence that almost everywhere on easth millions love it.
it needs to be more  earthy and authentic to life.
to be a great football player, you must start from an early age playing it with your neighbours.
is it just me or should the united states be better at soccer?
fast forward to 2011, and it is fair to say the project has failed.
he dictates who the mnt coach selects and plays.
if soccer was important in the us i knew he would be noticed for an academy program like you find in england, and spain.
if you look back to where we were, when paul caliguri's "goal heard 'round the world" helped qualify us for the 1990 world cup after a 40 year absence, to where we've come, with our finishing in the top 16 at the 2010 world cup, we've come a long way.
it is the ussf and specifically sunil gulati! .
their are plenty of interested youth but simply no way of training them properly.
replay would help identify the "ghost" fouls and the  "ghost" goals.
it's popular with kids because it's cheap
and as long as mls clubs recruit internationally for their youth academies  instead of giving american citizens a chance, us soccer will never progress.
when team usa lost to panama and then had to battle long and hard to beat guadeloupe in the gold cup, i thought it was time for a reality check.
while it may not be at the at  spain's or germany's level, that doesn't make us bad.
i guarantee you will make it to the final 4 in 2014.
for instance  that corinthians is the biggest soccer club in brazil and has more than 33  million fans only inside the country and many others around the world.
many countries try for years and don't get past  the first round or even get to play in the world cup at all.
godanov june  17th, 2011 2:43 pm et american men hate soccer, and f their is no support their is no world cup.
their are plenty of interested youth but simply no way of training them  properly.
not to mention, major league soccer is picking up steam and a soccer  game is a real event in seattle, portland and philly.
that's how other countries operate one more thing the usa dont need to find start player like pele or diego they need hard working and hungry players.
his lack of allowing "creative play" and  "1 2 quick one touch passing triangulation and penetration is obvious and  very alarming at this level.
towns and cities have great fields and set up leagues for children as young as 4, elementary and high schools have their teams, the towns team structure and in many cases intramural teams; and the same for colleges and companies.
look no farther than guiseppe rossi and neven subotic for proof that these so called imigrant's children are real but they only develop because they are trained by capable hands and not just foreign parents who were fans in their own country.
it's a shame too, because it is such a beautiful, pure sport.
the us are not bad at soccer.
soccer has to compete with american football, baseball, and basketball for the best athletes.
leave the feudalistic, overspeending to european soccer.
june 16th, 2011 7:11 pm et us national team needs to get rid of bob bradley and his boss,  whoever/whatever his names is... + there isn't enough money in soccer like it  is in american football, basketball, baseball etc...
2 continuous 45 minutes of play....
give the us some time, once soccer's popularity grows we will begin to  see world class soccer players.
it's not coincidence that almost everywhere on easth millions love  it.
this is the same sort of analysis i've seen time and again by members of  the foreign media who take five minutes to look at soccer in the u.s. and start  drawing conclusions.
kasonde june 17th, 2011 9:01 pm et 1)off-course the usa should be better at football/soccer.
corinthians my life, corinthians my history, corinthians my love....
i always wondered why the u.s. does not employ a large brazilian coach??
they come to europe and what do they do?
it's a mental and physical challenge.
they don't understand football because they lack the ability to see beyond the shell.
you talked about snow in the winter months being a factor, but are you not aware that european countries also suffers from the same winter condition.
if you are an up-and-coming athlete, there is no "big money" to be had pursuing a career in soccer, unless you are amazing enough to be scouted by the premier european teams with unreal bank accounts.
soccer is a game for sissies.
in brazil and in europe, you will see players  being reared from a young age, from a small club, to bigger clubs etc... they  have to be interested, and they need to understand there is a possible career  in the game for them.
and as long as mls clubs recruit internationally for their youth academies instead of giving american citizens a chance, us soccer will never progress.
(they probably had close to the worst)
because its a culture, but so far i do not see that in the us!
it's impossible for the us to gain that culture by simply importing talent from it's immigrants...it might take at least 20 years before the us becomes top 10 in the world....but that won't happen before they will become aware of the sport, and that has yet to happen, not when baseball and basketball are around...and by fair trade...you can't always be good in everything.
they go to the nearest macdonald's!
anyone who lives in the us could have already told you this.
it's a shame too, because it is such a beautiful,  pure sport.
soccer is a test of skill and strength that goes non-stop for two 45minute half's.
i read one blog of a guy who said he'd never watched a soccer game in his  life, but he found the slovenia game more exciting than any football or  basketball game he'd ever seen.
it is useless to finance a team to grow into an arsenal squad in a determined year.
he preference for hard-working, simple players (like his son) over less predictable talents (like adu or jose francisco torres).
should china and india...... derek.
also, due to the volume of comments we receive, not  all comments will be posted.
but i think you'll get there.
they get  taken off on a stretcher then hop right up when the other guy gets a card.
i agree that we should be better and we haven't achieved all we wanted by 2010 but in 2009 the men's national team beat the best team in the world (spain) at the confederations cup and went toe to toe with brazil in the confed cup final.
i have played american football, men's league and college rugby, and  men's league soccer and soccer by far is the roughest.
if soccer was important in  the us i knew he would be noticed for an academy program like you find in  england, and spain.
i hope american kids of this next generation can bring up this culture and mature in to something the us can be proud of.
i don't know much, but i blame the mls for lack of us passion, and for two  reasons.
it's actually the absence of goals and all the close calls or near goals in soccer that raise the spectator's desire and make the actual goals so fulfilling.
i was really excited for the world cup then watch about half of a game and couldn't stand watching anymore because how dramatic they had to make everything.
the problem is not a lack of interest but a lack of coaching and  infrastructure.
specially in high school, i cant tell you how blatantly obvious it was that the sports teams budget was basically divided up like 60% to the american football team, 30% to basketball and 10% to the soccer team.........
(see link  below) from the fifa site: http://www.fifa.com/worldfootball/ranking/lastranking/gender=f/fullranking.html goes to show what consideration they show to women in sports.
to think its as simple as 'get soccer  into the culture of the people' is so silly..
to think its as simple as 'get soccer into the culture of the people' is so silly..
he's incredibly talented, don't get me  wrong, but his arrogance is repulsive.
the timeouts of the game are bigger then the game itself.
well, another ridiculous article form the anglo-saxon biased cnn, first fo all the question would be why mexico and portugal are not yet a real force in world football???
even on the youngest rbny pre-academy teams, you can see international players  and players from well outside nyc.
they need to attract foreign coaches who have very good technical nous to the clubs they already have.
the nonsense about soccer not being taken seriously by the american public is way off.
stefan glavce june 17th, 2011  11:11 am et
james june 22nd, 2011 12:37 pm et
there are fundemental tactical and philisophical diffencies that accompanies  this current administration.
soccer normally falls into a similar demographic as basketball does in the us, impoverished families, but in the us local clubs charge upwards of $1000 (and do so rightly as they wouldn't exist without the funding) for players to travel whereas european clubs allow free to play opportunities.
having watched argentina win two world cups, only to be surpassed  by brazil, germany, and italy, you need to understand that this is one prize  you can not win by using powerpoint slides, or throwing money at it..
we're just as good as  england, as we proved in the world cup eoin june
the us has none of this, so will struggle in mens' soccer.
you can't go from bad to amazing with money.
i would say that was being a major player in world soccer.
when our best athletes want to play football,  baseball, basketball before soccer it puts us at a disadvantage.
he always takes the  "safe" road.
yea maybe it was a bit unrealistic to set 2010 as a date for churning out global superstars but lets be real we're a top 20 soccer team in the world when playing at our best and the youth in our pipeline are going to do even better than their predecessors given the increases in the caliber of coaching we are currently able to provide..
wladimir june 25th, 2011 4:54 pm et i always wondered why the u.s. does not employ a large brazilian coach??
things don't change that much in a short time.
i was in south africa last year, and the biggest  crowd i saw in cape town was the americans, even more than the english!
as a result, big rivalries on tv showed empty stands and little interest.
the "floppers" get rewarded.
just assuming that those 32 american clubs are on  par with england's in terms of youth development (which they obviously aren't)
http://t.co/517va7yt updated: fri, 16 mar 2012 21:35:54 +0000 @worldsportcnn: flyover: australian grand prix: get an aerial view of the  melbourne formula one circuit ahead of the race on sunday.
i have played american football, men's league and college rugby, and men's league soccer and soccer by far is the roughest.
at least in hockey people beat the crap out of each other......but in soccer all people do is fall down and pretend that they were hit to get a yellow/red card.
tedaj june 17th, 2011 10:06 am et i'm from asia and i love football.
now it's probably in  the top 5 of team sports and growing.
much of the blame must go to his coaching selections.
in soccer you need a fighting spirt and faith in your team and yourself to win .
with some fans i've talked to, the  enjoyment of watching the supporters groups has acted as a bridge to  understanding the play on the field.
this blog was just a  sad display of a lazy, biased and misinformed article.
this last weekend at the timbers/nyrb game i  realized i was starting to understand the game when i groaned at several bad  crosses and cheered for a goal-saving bicycle kick (albeit by the other team).
many countries try for years and don't get past the first round or even get to play in the world cup at all.
never mind colleage sport, it's in the streets where the big names of the sport are made.
but i think you'll get  there.
imho, they made a mistake paying so much for beckham.
the usa female team is the most successful team on the women's side and  currently number one, if the women in the usa can do it why can the men.
3 officials is not enough for 22 players on the large playing surface.
most adults actually consider it to be a "soft" sport, some would even say it is a women's sport.
it may have the financial backing but without the drive it will not move forward.
i don't know much, but i blame the mls for lack of us passion, and for two reasons.
having watched argentina win two world cups, only to be surpassed by brazil, germany, and italy, you need to understand that this is one prize you can not win by using powerpoint slides, or throwing money at it..
johnny june 30th, 2011 5:53 pm et what does soccer mean?
statistics show that only one shot in nine scores, so the team that has the ball the most, shoots the most, and therefore scores the most.
e-mail: (required, but will not be displayed) comments are moderated by cnn, in accordance with the cnn comment policy,  and may not appear on this blog until they have been reviewed and deemed  appropriate for posting.
american football, basketball, baseball, nascar and golf, for example, all get more coverage and more attention than soccer.
after all, i love the us and have always supported their national team.
yes, but first of all, you should know much more about it.
look no farther than guiseppe rossi and neven subotic for proof that  these so called imigrant's children are real but they only develop because they  are trained by capable hands and not just foreign parents who were fans in  their own country.
this means that american clubs are responsible for approximately 20 times as  many people (1/3 number of clubs and 6 times the population) another factor is price.
and dey should know to be better but dey cant dey dont have soul and spirit and love
if play is stopped for an "injury" the player should be required to stay off the turf for 2 minutes (after all they are hurt are they not?).
that, combined with heavy snow in the northern parts make it difficult to play in the winter time unless there is an indoor facility nearby and this is typically reserved for the serious players.
it's a mental and physical  challenge.
you cant measure success only by winning the world cup because you  will always be a failure.
the usa has been the best  team in concacaf for the past decade, though mexico is making a big comeback in  that respect.
hopefully we'll get better as the  generations go on.
mls farm system, second.
but if you want to say its tough  because they run for so long then lets all go sit around and watch guys run a  marathon.
the problem is the mentality, is to get  the children to dream of playing soccer, finding teammates, the infrastructure,  local clubs who will take in those children and train them, see them as an  investment, to later sell them.
comments are moderated by cnn, in accordance with the cnn comment policy, and may not appear on this blog until they have been reviewed and deemed appropriate for posting.
they achieved an  astounding 89% success rate for their passes, and actually passed the ball 200  more times per game than the tournament average.
well why play something for the next 10 years when  you can just finish college and have a real career for the rest of your life.
the bottom line  is more people watch the world cup than all the olympics combined.
they call it "calcio" after a much older native italian sport.
where is adu these days?
looks to me like it's all about money.
when our best athletes want to play football, baseball, basketball before soccer it puts us at a disadvantage.
team usa made the quarterfinals of the world cup in 2002 during that period, but since then, they have failed to make their mark on the world stage.
i think a lot has to do with coaching.
i hate this unprecedented stereotype, our  national team is one of the best in the world.
we teach kids a civil game, where the boundaries of pushing,  pulling, grabbing is not tolerated at the younger levels.
i bet a ton of wide receivers and centerfielders would have made  great soccer players but they had to make a choice and there is simply no money  to be made playing us soccer because of the lack of commercial breaks and  sponsorship opportunities.
that way they can relax in the sofa (or in the stadium) and get something to eat (their favourite sport).
i bet you've heard of him.
they barely get touched and roll around on the ground holding their leg when someone bumped their arm.
this leaves most us youth playing in poorly maintained  environments with uneducated coaches and all of this fails to account for the  fact that this simply shows how far behind the us is to england who are having  their own problems developing players right now with a dismal performance in  the world cup and the u21 european championships.
you are used to deal with avarages  and percentages in sports like tennis, american football, basketball or  baseball.
the ussf is a close minded "click" and relies on  it's "own" to provide information on players and coaches rather than  allow all avenues of information to get to the decision makers within.
finally, about being a soft sport, i want  to be a yank, brit or from any other country outside south america playing at  the morumbi, bombonera, centenario, with thousands of supporters chanting with  fireworks, which can easily make you feel like a completely yellow....... morgan august 27th, 2011 11:59 am et of coarse america is destined for greater skies as far as footbal  isconcerned they only needs to be positive if they want to develop their game
(by possession soccer i mean stringing together more than, say, three passes.)
americans need to understand that soccer (or football), is the world sport, not  baseball, not basketball, not volleyball, not american football.
we have better things to watch.
there are huge numbers of very capable and talented coaches and  players in the u.s.
this leaves most us youth playing in poorly maintained environments with uneducated coaches and all of this fails to account for the fact that this simply shows how far behind the us is to england who are having their own problems developing players right now with a dismal performance in the world cup and the u21 european championships.
i read one blog of a guy who said he'd never watched a soccer game in his life, but he found the slovenia game more exciting than any football or basketball game he'd ever seen.
the players get tripped, fall dramatically then stay on the ground until they are carried off after almost every play.
it's impossible for the us to gain that culture by simply importing  talent from it's immigrants...it might take at least 20 years before the us  becomes top 10 in the world....but that won't happen before they will become  aware of the sport, and that has yet to happen, not when baseball and  basketball are around...and by fair trade...you can't always be good in  everything.
4) many big team's always say that the usmnt is very hard to beat at the  world cup's they may not be the most talented but they know how to frustrate  big teams 5) soccer/football is very much an american sport, its the most  capitalistic sport there is clubs can buy many player they want and winners  takes all.
and how does us's major league soccer compare?
the reason that soccer is not popular in the u.s. is because it is a mans sport.
my u19 team plays a better system of play than our mnt does.
if you are an up-and-coming athlete,  there is no "big money" to be had pursuing a career in soccer, unless  you are amazing enough to be scouted by the premier european teams with unreal  bank accounts.
there's nothing wrong with a scrappy  hard working team, the identity the usmnt has had for the last decade now, imo.
i liked to think the mls is finally getting the second bit better, but after the way the new england supporters group was treated in the fort last week, it reinforces that the marketing still has a ways to go.
you are used to deal with avarages and percentages in sports like tennis, american football, basketball or baseball.
how can you expect to have a good national team when 9.5 out of 10 people do not even know that the concacaf gold cup will be taking place right there in the states in less than a week?
hence the rest off the world love',s soccer and america is missing out, so sorry get real its al bout da money,money
hopefully we'll get better as the generations go on.
he is the last soccer player i  would want anyone looking up to (expect for maradona).
the buzz around portland is thick, the waiting list for tickets is long, and the experience for the fans is top flight.
none are about player developement  and retention.
american football is a collision sport yet does no have nearly as many "stretcher" cases.
the usa female team is the most successful team on the women's side and currently number one, if the women in the usa can do it why can the men.
the us  has the strong organizational discipline, what it doesn't have is patience.
bradley needs to go and coach like marcelo  bielsa or even villas-boas should be brought in.
the us have all the potential to do well even if it's not sport number one.
1) when they built the league 20 years ago, they didn't focus on already football-rabid towns.
apparently every country is good at certain things be it sports or  other stuff.
the average pay on the highest paid team (new york redbulls) is a bit under  $450k a year per player.
soccer is rapidly increasing in popularity and more  and more children are following through with the sport in terms of not  switching sports once they grow up...
not often noted, but the u.s.  team was actually one of the more exciting teams to watch at this past summer's  lackluster cup.
the reason the us isn't better is due to several reasons: (imoho)
(for a nifty analysis of their  passing, go to  http://www.prozonesports.com/news-article-world-cup-2010-analysis.html.)
usa is great at all other sports, but never did much at soccer.
my u19 team plays a better system of play than our  mnt does.
that money would have  been better spent on bring in other talent and coaches from europe and south  america.
so i do believe that the u.s. should be way better due to the factors you  listed, but once more its about loving to play the game and nothing more.
i recently wrote an article on soccer in the us.
i was really excited for the world cup then watch about  half of a game and couldn't stand watching anymore because how dramatic they  had to make everything.
let's see how tough a soccer player is when he gets the ball in the nfl.
you cannot simply take 10 years of publicity and make this sport part of the national past time.
that is just it, soccer goes non-stop were you don't stop for a budweiser or doritos commercial and broadcasters can't get sponsors which means no money.
i think stevekatherman has it right.
he's a terrible teammate and his personal life is abominable.
our anglo-saxon cousins are equally inept at world football  because the english value industry over grace, or graft over gift.
bruce arena did a great job at virginia, d.c. united, and at the u.s. national team, but when he went to a one forward lineup at the 2006 world cup, that didn't bode well for either the team or his job prospects.
so, if there is one thing football officials would have to do to change all of this it is to market football in a different way.
shouldn't we be getting better commentaries about american soccer by now?
stop correcting us for your cheap ego gratification, ok?
do you watch big european clubs competing or even the quality of the spanish/english/italian/german leagues ... when there is a football match the weekly stuff people take a break and head to the stadiums or gather with friends to follow up.
china is the second biggest economy and has 6  times the population of the us... doesnt mean it will win the world cup, india  same story.
we have better things to  watch.
i for one would do anything to send my youngest son  overseas.
well, another ridiculous article form the anglo-saxon biased cnn, first fo  all the question would be why mexico and portugal are not yet a real force in  world football??? , but talking about the yanks it has many possible answers.
they have population of over 200 million people, most countries with large populations does well football.
instead of trying to learn the chants, i was trying to juggle chanting with cheering for good play on the field, regardless if it yielded a goal.
soccer will never succeed in the us, because there are no time-outs for commercials on tv.
the highest in 2010 for the nfl was the washington redskins at $178.2m for  about 40 players or about $4.4m per player.
all around the world, football is a part of the landscape, from the most empoverished country to the most afluent.
you have a country of 57m citizens and 20  premiership teams there, and their expenditures pales america's nfl with 30  teams and 300m citizens.
but then what other choice do they have, cheerleading for a mans sport maybe?
usa went from being a world cup non entity to making the quarterfinals in 02, flopping in 06, to winning its group in '10.
why play a sport that doesn't pay as  much?
here's a super-talented kid with skills beyond anything we have seen the us and he has been flop because coaches (highly educated coaches), both here and europe (where coaching education is huge) choose to focus on what he can't do rather than what he can do better than anyone.
successful countries see it as a game, a pass time like music as opposed to a  chance to show superiority.
next  article: murray unlikely to win wimbledon despite recent success world sport blog world sport provides an inside track to the major issues and stories making  news in the world of sport with cnn's anchors, correspondents and journalists
there are 16 million  people living here who love the game, i'm sure in a country like the us there  are at least the same amount of people to be found who love football (soccer)  as well.
2) secondly the money, countries that do well at football are richer countries they can hire the best coaches and train the players with best services available 3)third the usa was 3rd in the 1st world cup and did well in the 1st 20 years at the world cup.
to  evaluate bob bradley's performance at the 2010 world cup, let's look at one  thing he did great.
i think project 2010 was a success, because the usmnt is a lot better than  what it was 10 years ago, but they need to make the next step.
he was amazing with the american youth teams in his teens, even signing with the mls as a 14-year-old.
eg brazil, germany and italy are very successful because they understand  soccer that have adapted it to their key strength 8)another problems is in soccer players don't go college they go to soccer  academies to improve their skills.
if usa is not the big countries im sure messi will be the highest earning among the sportsman..
your readers deserve better.
just give it some more time, the us will get there, tiago d'almeida june 29th, 2011 12:19 am et oguchi onyewu in portugal you will win!
you can't develop a whole league of top-flight players on a shoestring budget.
same way with the african team's and some european teams.
now it's probably in the top 5 of team sports and growing.
they know  what they have to live up to but they haven't found that identity that defines  as a team..
earnhardt could have ran a mile without a marlboro.
awful 'journalism' football has many fans in the us especially after thier good showing in the world cup.
soccer is the most international sport, the most passionated, the most  exciting.
this is a life long thirst that no one will let u just take home.
for instance that corinthians is the biggest soccer club in brazil and has more than 33 million fans only inside the country and many others around the world.
john hillman june 21st, 2011 12:24 am et soccer is a game for sissies.
the fitness required for an all out 90min game on an 11 man pitch is just  staggering...
until the vast majority of americans get over themselves and realize that there are other sports being played outside of the us borders (like soccer for instance), and that they aren't the best at it, they will never be good at soccer.
i liked to think the mls is finally getting the second bit better, but  after the way the new england supporters group was treated in the fort last  week, it reinforces that the marketing still has a ways to go.
i would love for those people to try playing for just  30mins not 90mins and see if they still think that way...
this type of thinking filters down throughout us soccer resulting in a very ordinary product on the field.
flat out no one cares about soccer in america, and why should they?
off-course you don't need arrogance but but respect of the  game 11) also the usa have talent, they need better scouts they should pick  every type of player whether they are athletic or not whether big or small they  should pick kids from all walks of life whether surban kids or kids in the  streets.
they tried to recreate city rivalries already in others,  ie: new england and new york.
it's hard to squeeze commercials into a game with few (if any)  disruptions.
first of all, football is not only the most popular worldwide sport is also the most competitive, at club lever there are at least 10 leagues with a similar level , serie a, torneo afa, campeonato paulista e carioca, la liga, bundesliga, epl, eurodivise, apertura mexicano and so on...... what is more, nowadays the idea of the big 4 (brazil, germany, italy, argentina) it does not correspond with the reality ( wc 1998 was the turning point), and for that reason you have brazil, argentina, germany, spain, england, uruguay , italy and france like powerhouses at international level , i do not think so honestly that usa has a real chance, think in the time that spain has to wait until win their 1st world cup.
sorry for the rant forza milan!
specially in high school, i cant tell you how blatantly obvious it was that the  sports teams budget was basically divided up like 60% to the american football  team, 30% to basketball and 10% to the soccer team.........
have you seen how the spanish played?
the problem is not a lack of interest but a lack of coaching and infrastructure.
bigokietechie june 17th, 2011 3:28 pm et soccer will never be big in america also because of one other thing: money.
give the us some time, once soccer's popularity grows we will begin to see world class soccer players.
not to mention ea sports' fifa series sells more and more copies each year domestically and not to mention espn has made a concerted effort to give soccer more coverage..
he dictates  who the mnt coach selects and plays.
the us is no longer a growing nation or a neophyte,when it comes to football.
soccer is the 4th or 5th most popular sport in the states.
well why play something for the next 10 years when you can just finish college and have a real career for the rest of your life.
we are poor at soccer because we are not sufficiently technical let alone  necessarily.
and let's not forget that we beat spain,  the number ranked team in the world, and were up on brazil 2-0 on a couple of  beautiful goals, at the 2009 confederations cup.
as for american success in soccer, don't forget that the us knocked out  future world champions spain in the 2009 confederation cup semi-final and were  still drawing with brazil at half-time going into the final.
it may have the financial  backing but without the drive it will not move forward.
i played every two days and the field/court was always full.
passion, tradition and media  enthusiasm are missing where soccer's concerned.
jay hipps june 16th, 2011  7:01 pm et shouldn't we be getting better commentaries about american soccer by now?
i agree, it used to  be a tougher sport, but it has changed.
with a population of over 300 million and with a large percentage of immigrants from countries where football is king, it is my belief there should be more talent in america.
tell me one town, schoo or company that  doesn't have some kind of team in place.
this is the same sort of analysis i've seen time and again by members of the foreign media who take five minutes to look at soccer in the u.s. and start drawing conclusions.
not to mention player communication skills.
pedro, terrible shallow article!
do you know anything about the sport?
the players get tripped, fall dramatically  then stay on the ground until they are carried off after almost every play.
the yanks hate  soccer as you guys say it just because the world is far better than u!
soccer will never be big in america also because of one other thing: money.
go make fun of them when your country wins as  many world cups as italy has.
as i like to say, i came for the army, and stayed for the timber.
if we weren't becoming more and more soccer-aware then why would fox, one of the major networks in the united states, broadcast the champions league final on national television?
this is a life long thirst that no one will let u just take  home.
3 officials is not enough for 22  players on the large playing surface.
disappointed with the fact that nobody actually cares about the development of the sport.
there are 16 million people living here who love the game, i'm sure in a country like the us there are at least the same amount of people to be found who love football (soccer) as well.
if u want it, then earn it...
as for american success in soccer, don't forget that the us knocked out future world champions spain in the 2009 confederation cup semi-final and were still drawing with brazil at half-time going into the final.
well the talent is here believe me, i alwayys thought i was great at soccer i played in a couple of state level occer in mexico, and when i back to the united states playing in high school destroyed my mentality of being good, many white americans i encountered were just amazing, but none of them see themselves playing pro why?
perhaps, just perhaps, it is  the coaching.
jimmy june 21st, 2011 5:55 am et well the talent is here believe me, i alwayys thought i was great at soccer  i played in a couple of state level occer in mexico, and when i back to the  united states playing in high school destroyed my mentality of being good, many  white americans i encountered were just amazing, but none of them see  themselves playing pro why?
back to the u.s. team granted we have a huge drain of our talent into football, basketball, and baseball, etc., but i don't think that can account for the u.s. not being able to break into soccer's upper echelon.
why don't we have a great  national team.... soccer is a very physical sport.
bruce arena did a great job at virginia, d.c. united, and at the  u.s. national team, but when he went to a one forward lineup at the 2006 world  cup, that didn't bode well for either the team or his job prospects.
even on the youngest rbny pre-academy teams, you can see international players and players from well outside nyc.
that way they can  relax in the sofa (or in the stadium) and get something to eat (their favourite  sport).
skill intensive sports cannot be tampered  with just tweaked.
off-course you don't need arrogance but but respect of the game 11) also the usa have talent, they need better scouts they should pick every type of player whether they are athletic or not whether big or small they should pick kids from all walks of life whether surban kids or kids in the streets.
i would ask them "seriously, do you really like soccer?"
sounds like our u.s. government.
you can't plan it, you can only nurture it.
the us has made tremendous strides in their team's performance and has  adapted well to the multinational styles of the game but still lacks the  passion that the rest of the world has for the sport.
rh june 29th, 2011 11:46 pm et
as long as american football, baseball, and basketball exist, soccer will  never be number one in the us.
we won our group in last year's world cup and are favoured to win the gold cup.
oh, and did you  really just compare soccer's popularity with nascar, a whitetrash competition  that in no way should be honored with being in the category of  "sport".
the u.s. team lacks this.
in brazil and in europe, you will see players being reared from a young age, from a small club, to bigger clubs etc... they have to be interested, and they need to understand there is a possible career in the game for them.
plenty of people are sons and grandsons of immigrants from many other places with great soccer teams.
who needs them anyway!
the us soccer coaching education programs  have killed the creativity of american players by focusing on "coaching  development" rather than player development.
i hope american kids of this next generation can bring  up this culture and mature in to something the us can be proud of.
so american children, young adults, men  and women love watching and playing soccer.
calling it football may be a good start...
soccer is the 4th or 5th most popular sport in the  states.
hence the rest off the world love',s soccer and america is missing out,  so sorry get real its al bout da money,money mike june 17th, 2011 9:48 pm et
but "soccer" is mostly about talent and what we in europe call "in game events" wich make it one of the most unpredictable sports to ever be created.
also, as a benfica fan myself i would like to express my deep admiration of adu's talent.
the  only time the united states played any possession soccer was during the first  half against england.
sport mimic's life, drama and all, when played well: american football does not.
i  wish i had a picture of him at the moment fifa announced the us had not won to  host another world cup!
lmperea june 17th, 2011 1:30 am  et as an american-argentine
there is no formula, no "we need money and  people".
we teach kids a civil game, where the boundaries of pushing, pulling, grabbing is not tolerated at the younger levels.
we had two come-from-behind draws or wins, whereas the world's big three (messi, ronaldo, and rooney) failed to score a single goal between them.
things changed, however.
when i saw him play i laughed, and wondered what the americans saw that  was pele like.
american football is a collision sport yet does no have nearly as many  "stretcher" cases.
this is the problem we have in the states.
now, a larger mistake than a lack of risk taking relates to our style of play.
dart june 17th, 2011  6:51 pm et futbol has to do with tradition and culture as it is with careful planning.
the buzz around portland is thick, the waiting list for  tickets is long, and the experience for the fans is top flight.
many people don't understand the game.
like music it needs to come naturally, just as rock, the blues, jazz, hip hop  it needs to come from the natural tendency of the people and then grow.
i am willing to bet my entire bank account, however meager the balance might be, that if fifa renamed the sport to "american soccer" the united states would win the next world cup.
i wish i knew how to get young us talent over to clubs overseas like barcelona, or others with youth academy programs.
specifically, bradley does not possess player evaluation and game management skills.
this sport is still taking baby steps trying to embedd itself into the americana mainstream.
he is the last soccer player i would want anyone looking up to (expect for maradona).
perhaps this could be the foundation for a new generation of footballers, a "project 2020" if you will.
and please get some attractive, flamboyant chants.
when the u.s. was down 2-0 against slovenia, to start the second half, he brought donovan up as a forward along with dempsey and altador for a three forward lineup, ala brazil.
usa went from being a world cup non entity to making the  quarterfinals in 02, flopping in 06, to winning its group in '10.
i would say that was  being a major player in world soccer.
to be defeated by a team ranked 67 in the world and then barely beat another not even officially affiliated with concacaf, the regional football body that covers north and central america and the caribbean, is surely not good enough.
pdxwilly june 23rd, 2011 11:10 pm et
one would think they never saw a baseball match!
one last thing, half the, uhm, "athletes" in baseball  and american football really shouldn't be regarded as such....
so why don't you go do more research, then write a well informed article that makes you sound like you didn't just crawl out from under a rock...
you  can't plan it, you can only nurture it.
they go to the  nearest macdonald's!
different races, different ethnicities, different colours, different languages, different cultures.
get more money...get better, more notable talent, get better coaches...and, the problem will solve itself.
given a choice of playing professional soccer where you have the financial limitations, or something else.... what would you choose?
6) americans love competitive sports and soccer is very competitive and like most sports in the usa it about heart, determination and have star player(s )to lead the team to glory and have supporting players who help the key players 7) the only problem is that the usa have not found a playing style that suits them, they like most team's the world they have not adopted soccer into their culture.
that money would have been better spent on bring in other talent and coaches from europe and south america.
soccer requires a skill  and finess that can not be made up for with raw athletic ability.
most grow up playing some soccer but continue with the other sports because of possible riches soccer was at almost zero just 18 years ago in the us.
6:58 pm  et some pretty diluted, and generalized comments we have here.
the us womens team seem to be pretty good.
the ussf is a close minded "click" and relies on it's "own" to provide information on players and coaches rather than allow all avenues of information to get to the decision makers within.
the reason football sorry soccer has not taken off is the tv stations wont  push soccer is it would loose a lot of revenue on adds they run every 10 to 15  mins and in a soccer the match has to be playrd for 45 mins befor a add could  be run.
when the u.s. was down 2-0 against slovenia, to start the  second half, he brought donovan up as a forward along with dempsey and altador  for a three forward lineup, ala brazil.
there are huge numbers of very capable and talented coaches and players in the u.s.
you can read it at  http://tinyurl.com/6kd4ynr thank you its called soccer here june 17th,  2011 10:05 pm et its because they are such pussies now.
soccer is anti sport today – acting, horrible reffing and a manipulative political system running it.
it was so much standing around waiting for guys to stop  rolling around like a 5 year old that got pushed over.
i  guarantee you will make it to the final 4 in 2014.
none are about player developement and retention.
it's actually the absence of goals  and all the close calls or near goals in soccer that raise the spectator's  desire and make the actual goals so fulfilling.
you cannot  simply take 10 years of publicity and make this sport part of the national past  time.
americans don't understand football (it's called football and not soccer).
my concern for the usmnt is that they do well when they have faith in themselves but once they stop believing they lose.
mr. pinto does not understand this game and therefore should not comment on what he does not know.
otherwise, keep acting like u dont care  about soccer anyway...
we need a new brand of football that is more urgent, agile and ruff and tumble.
they don’t have to spend money bringing the likes of david beckham and thierry henry to their professional league, they have to go around schools with dvds of cristiano ronaldo, lionel messi and company and actually show them how cool the sport can be from an early age.
sure their style of play isn't as exciting as  brazil, but the way they passed the ball against germany in the semi-finals, as  if they had the ball on a string, was beautiful nonetheless.
i do agree we should be better.
i agree that the people in charge are stagnating us soccer, and sunil and  bob should go as they have overstayed their welcome.
christian o'hare june 17th, 2011 8:23 am et
worrell june 17th, 2011 12:40 pm  et freedy adu was touted as the next pele- by whom.
albert june 17th, 2011 2:44 pm et football, or "soccer", as you americans still tend to call it,  isn't a typical logically analaizable game.
if we weren't becoming more and more  soccer-aware then why would fox, one of the major networks in the united  states, broadcast the champions league final on national television?
second, the italians don't  call it "football" either ("sfera del piede" or  "piedepalla" or some such).
we need a new brand  of football that is more urgent, agile and ruff and tumble.
soccer is about one thing and one thing only, in my view: possession.
where they cand call  themselves world champions although no one else in the world plays that sport.
ranked top in the world.
in contrast, spain and barcelona start their attack from behind!
different races, different ethnicities, different colours, different  languages, different cultures.
towns and cities have great fields and  set up leagues for children as young as 4, elementary and high schools have  their teams, the towns team structure and in many cases intramural teams; and  the same for colleges and companies.
erik june 17th, 2011 8:52 am et
soccer is anti sport today – acting, horrible  reffing and a manipulative political system running it.
if you look back to where we were, when paul caliguri's "goal  heard 'round the world" helped qualify us for the 1990 world cup after a  40 year absence, to where we've come, with our finishing in the top 16 at the  2010 world cup, we've come a long way.
this last weekend at the timbers/nyrb game i realized i was starting to understand the game when i groaned at several bad crosses and cheered for a goal-saving bicycle kick (albeit by the other team).
on the other hand, football doesn't need the americans.
so american children, young adults, men and women love watching and playing soccer.
they call it "calcio" after a  much older native italian sport.
the rest of the time there was an inordinate amount  of long balls send to altidor and others.
it takes a long period.
like music it needs to come naturally, just as rock, the blues, jazz, hip hop it needs to come from the natural tendency of the people and then grow.
they tried to recreate city rivalries already in others, ie: new england and new york.
i agree, it used to be a tougher sport, but it has changed.
not great  journalism by any means.
i'm from brazil and i always questioned myself about this.
he preference for  hard-working, simple players (like his son) over less predictable talents (like  adu or jose francisco torres).
he is responsible for  "chasing away" several very good young prospects now playing for  other countries.
so i do believe that the u.s. should be way better due to the factors you listed, but once more its about loving to play the game and nothing more.
flat out no  one cares about soccer in america, and why should they?
this type of thinking filters down throughout us  soccer resulting in a very ordinary product on the field.
they now have some fine ball players playing over at inter and  schalke, players who know to caress the football.
dennis july 7th, 2011 3:02 pm et pedro, terrible shallow article!
i have a few boys, but my youngest who is 6 adores the sport, and  those that see him play know he has a future in it.
they missed the mark by not marketing hardcore rivalries that already existed in cities like seattle and portland.
the problem can be related to the  "project 2010" program.
the  timeouts of the game are bigger then the game itself.
if they are carried off on a stretcher they should be off at least 5 minutes (again player safety) and more likely 10.
(by possession soccer i mean stringing together more  than, say, three passes.)
statistics show that only one shot in nine scores, so the team that  has the ball the most, shoots the most, and therefore scores the most.
successful countries see it as a game, a pass time like music as opposed to a chance to show superiority.
the fitness required for an all out 90min game on an 11 man pitch is just staggering...
multiply that by thousands of kids across the country, and i don't think you can say the interest is lacking.
your team is just crap... simple.
they achieved an astounding 89% success rate for their passes, and actually passed the ball 200 more times per game than the tournament average.
us will only get better, though it needs some reorganization at the top (not going to happen), along with a coaching change (bradley did ok but his style has gone stale.)
riccardo june 17th, 2011 10:52 am et im an italian/american, lived in the states for 7 years in chicago when i  was younger, and yea, football didn't get much of the attention it deserved...
but if you want to say its tough because they run for so long then lets all go sit around and watch guys run a marathon.
they won because of la masia and the ideology of one johan cruyff.
how fun is it to watch a game for 3 hours only to have the final score 0-0?
eg brazil, germany and italy are very successful because they understand soccer that have adapted it to their key strength 8)another problems is in soccer players don't go college they go to soccer academies to improve their skills.
hey, demostenes and the rest of you "football" fans.
every game has to have the heart and devotion of the players for it to become a success.
as a  result, big rivalries on tv showed empty stands and little interest.
world sport provides an inside track to the major issues and stories making news in the world of sport with cnn's anchors, correspondents and journalists providing opinion and in-depth analysis as well as a left field look at all things competitive.
our anglo-saxon cousins are equally inept at world football because the english value industry over grace, or graft over gift.
when there is a football match the weekly stuff people take a break and head to  the stadiums or gather with friends to follow up.
the "fathom" fouls abound.
darkjourneythemovie june
finally, if you think athleticism is an issue than you don't even  understand the sport.
spain planned for years with their investment in youth football before winning the world cup.
usa is way better than it was 10 years ago.
another tip, us coaches  should start in europe as a assistant under coaches who have proved themselves.
the us were as athletic as anyone at the world cup but lost out to well trained skill and intelligence.
when a generation or two grows up playing success and  popularity will follow.
mezzala.net june 20th, 2011 5:59 am et
otherwise, keep acting like u dont care about soccer anyway...
in contrast, spain and barcelona start their  attack from behind!
us is the homeland of sport, keep it that way.
2) they tried to market the game to the soccer moms and kids, instead of to  the rabid soccer fans that either grew up or spent time overseas, and hardcore  supporters groups.
i lived in the states for nine years and although i saw many kids playing the game when they were young, they never saw it as a possible career.
where they cand call themselves world champions although no one else in the world plays that sport.
eddie june 17th, 2011 1:11 pm et soccer (football) is not a sport that is part of the north american  culture.
soccer is about one thing and one thing only, in my view:  possession.
again a very arrogant close minded individual.
300  million people means nothing!
we are so much more  respected now than we were 10 years ago but stupid articles like this are a  weak attempt to keep our image at mediocre.
us will only  get better, though it needs some reorganization at the top (not going to  happen), along with a coaching change (bradley did ok but his style has gone  stale.)
us national team needs to get rid of bob bradley and his boss, whoever/whatever his names is... + there isn't enough money in soccer like it is in american football, basketball, baseball etc... americans claim this sport to be for sissies???
kids are coached from early and it limits their natural ability.
bill june 17th, 2011 8:58 am et soccer will never succeed in the us, because there are no time-outs for  commercials on tv.
napoleon june  21st, 2011 3:29 am et
rongren was the u21 coach for many years.
advancing to the round of 16 at the last tournament in south africa last year wasn't exactly what they had in mind.
the us have all the potential to do well even if it's not sport number  one.
so their top athletes play soccer.
i played every two days  and the field/court was always full.
way to write an article filled with stereotypical depictions of the american view on soccer.
runners up in the confederations cup in 2009 (after beating spain and almost beating brazil in the finals) and making the round of 16 in the 2010 world cup (as far as england, mexico and portugal got).
i find that  men who play soccer have very litle patience with trying to explain the game to  people who have not.
he's a terrible teammate  and his personal life is abominable.
there's a popular domestic league that makes money, and europe has many players from the us.
there would be a lot less flopping if  they know they would be off for long enough to really be checked for serious  injury (they pop right off the stretcher as it is far too often).
also, due to the volume of comments we receive, not all comments will be posted.
instead of trying to learn the chants, i was trying to juggle chanting with  cheering for good play on the field, regardless if it yielded a goal.
in soccer you need a fighting spirt and faith in your team and  yourself to win .
you think spain won the world  cup because they had the best athletes?
was considered a  good team last wc, and in the women's is one of the best.
the truth is some  of the highest paid athletes in the world are soccer players.
i agree that the people in charge are stagnating us soccer, and sunil and bob should go as they have overstayed their welcome.
to be a great football player, you must start from an  early age playing it with your neighbours.
i hope you have an alternate career path.
i made a couple of spelling and punctuation corrections.
yea maybe it was a bit unrealistic to set 2010 as a date for churning  out global superstars but lets be real we're a top 20 soccer team in the world  when playing at our best and the youth in our pipeline are going to do even  better than their predecessors given the increases in the caliber of coaching
h. plasma june 17th, 2011 12:55 pm et i wonder if the journalist who wrote this knows that the us women soccer  team is actually a force to reckon with.
the vision needs to change if the us is to ever become a powerhouse.
(see basketball – 10 players – small court) (see american football – same field 6 officials...).
also, there was a phenom in giussepe rossi who was born and raised in new  jersey who decided to play for italy instead.
the big boss june 17th, 2011 7:25 am et not sure why there is such a emphasis on the sons and grandsons of  immigrants from africa and latin america.
when a generation or two grows up playing success and popularity will follow.
i'll write another article complaining that since we have so many chinese descendants in america, we should be pro at pingpong.
the us were as athletic as anyone at the world cup but  lost out to well trained skill and intelligence.
the only time the united states played any possession soccer was during the first half against england.
changing the image of football will lead to changing the people who play it.
he's incredibly talented, don't get me wrong, but his arrogance is repulsive.
they need to attract foreign coaches who have very good technical nous to  the clubs they already have.
as i like  to say, i came for the army, and stayed for the timber.
bradley needs to go and coach like marcelo bielsa or even villas-boas should be brought in.
freedy adu was touted as the next pele- by whom.
, i would like to say: "welcome to the  club".
americans play on groomed, immaculate fields and play without passion or creativity.
there's nothing wrong with a scrappy hard working team, the identity the usmnt has had for the last decade now, imo.
nick june 28th, 2011 9:54 pm et
i wish i had a picture of him at the moment fifa announced the us had not won to host another world cup!
the current fa was good in terms of getting the association to point where it is today but in terms of making it global powerhouse,they fall short.
there are fundemental tactical and philisophical diffencies that accompanies this current administration.
sir, read soccernomics by simon kuiper please, then get back to me about why the us doesn't win at football.
i bet a ton of wide receivers and centerfielders would have made great soccer players but they had to make a choice and there is simply no money to be made playing us soccer because of the lack of commercial breaks and sponsorship opportunities.
i'm from asia and i love football.
no team  in the history of the game (as far as i know) demonstrated this better than  spain at the 2010 world cup.
(see link below) from the fifa site: http://www.fifa.com/worldfootball/ranking/lastranking/gender=f/fullranking.html goes to show what consideration they show to women in sports.
he is responsible for "chasing away" several very good young prospects now playing for other countries.
at least in hockey people  beat the crap out of each other......but in soccer all people do is fall down  and pretend that they were hit to get a yellow/red card.
i guess americans just don't  understand how beautiful the game is and how real competition in that sport  really is exciting.
but "soccer" is mostly about talent and what we in europe  call "in game events" wich make it one of the most unpredictable  sports to ever be created.
the youth programs and leagues are money based and "win at all costs" to make the club and coach look good in order to attract the "best" players with money to inflate the club's accounts.
they have  population of over 200 million people, most countries with large populations  does well football.
my opinion... observer june 30th, 2011 7:08 pm et awful 'journalism' football has many fans in the us especially after thier  good showing in the world cup.
(and brazil, we'll try not to giggle when you have a power outage during wc 2014.)
was considered a good team last wc, and in the women's is one of the best.
soccer wasn't always a soft sport...it's the current generation of diving prima-donna players, crying out for the referee's attention when they've barely been scratched, that has given it this image.
the bottom line is more people watch the world cup than all the olympics combined.
soccer is rapidly increasing in popularity and more and more children are following through with the sport in terms of not switching sports once they grow up...
they barely get touched and roll  around on the ground holding their leg when someone bumped their arm.
another tip, us coaches should start in europe as a assistant under coaches who have proved themselves.
i speak to this, because i am one of those people.