run your bracket pool online withbracket manager.
i don't believe the academy are any good, they might bring in the all mighty tv but they can't recruit because of their requirements.
the west division looks halfway decent, but the east is just godawful.
[ reply to comment ] pickett fence reputation: 95 level: superstar since: aug 16, 2011 posted on: october 11, 2011 3:44 pm score: 99 big east plotting football, hoops divisions does the big east seriously think that they will retain their automatic bcs bid?
why don't you check your facts before you criticize his reporting.
uconn, wvu, and louisville will leave all in good time.
no. 4 market, dallas (smu) is no. 5 and houston is no. 10.
beyond navy, air force and ucf, a league source said “no one team is definitely next” as an expansion candidate.
philadelphia (temple) is the  nation’s no. 4 market, dallas (smu) is no. 5 and houston is no. 10.
but when they bring up tv they never mention that.
and i are moving scott miller's bull pennings, 03/10/12 3:17
strong facilities and a strong out of conference schedule year in year out.
however, there remains the very real possibility louisville and west virginia may not be in the league and bound for the big 12 if missouri leaves for the sec or the big 12 expands to 12 teams.
tv markets are the most stupid thing in the world when ncaa football is a global sport that has no markets, only fans and people that watch teams.
the newark star-ledger reported one proposed alignment discussed at tuesday’s meeting consisted of rutgers, uconn, south florida, ucf, temple and navy in an east division with west virginia, louisville, cincinnati, air force, smu and houston in a west division.
if the be wants to survive they better add some football teams that will win games and draw ratings.
my account - member search - blog search - about community brett mcmurphy mcmurphy's law name: private gender: member since: may 23, 2011 email: private favorite teams big east plotting football, hoops divisions posted on: october 11, 2011 1:50
the newark star-ledger reported one proposed alignment discussed at  tuesday’s meeting consisted of rutgers, uconn, south florida, ucf, temple  and navy in an east division with west virginia, louisville, cincinnati, air  force, smu and houston in a west division.
with potential to expand to 56,000.
however, others believe boise state, located nearly 700 miles west of air force and nearly 2,200 miles from tampa/usf, is simply too far to consider.
boise  state’s athletic achievements, academic and research successes,  popularity, and vision for future growth make the university an extremely  valuable conference partner.”
it already shakes due to cheap aluminum construction.
sec has the highest tv ratings, largest attendance numbers and most championships.
navy, air force and boise state are being considered as football members only, while ucf, temple, houston and smu are at the top of the list as all-sports members so it’s unknown right now how large the basketball membership could grow.
that is a little site that explains the east carolina market.
[ reply to comment ] ucfgoalie33 reputation: 90 level: all-star since: jul 20, 2007
if you can't fill up your home stadium there sure as heck isn't any demand to see you on tv.
the fact of the matter is, once the announcement comes out.
the triple option will be figured out once they play league play a time or two.
reputation: 0 level: amateur since: oct 11, 2011 posted on: october 11, 2011 2:52 pm score: 115 big east plotting football, hoops divisions sad part is east carolina gets a decent share of football tv's from eastern north carolina, tidewater va, charlotte, and raleigh metro areas
score: 145 big east plotting football, hoops divisions can someone please explain why east carolina is on the outside looking in?
“while we are certainly flattered to be mentioned in connection with  other conferences and we hold those leagues in high regard, our current focus  is on continuing to build the outstanding athletic programs that have helped  make boise state a popular and compelling national brand," kustra said.
if they add upwards of 4 or 5 pathetic basketball programs the non-football schools needs to get some sense and bolt, add xavier, dayton, and
[ reply to comment ] hulaboytroy reputation: 88
so idiot in orlando lies and says the big east called and it's on the front page of every newspaper from new york to japan.
http://www.ecu.edu/undaunted/ big east only knows market because they are mainly in the north east, they do not understand that there are areas outside markets that enjoy college football.
“the landscape of college athletics is exceptionally fluid, and we  are continuing to monitor the situation.
2:58 pm score: 20 big east plotting football, hoops divisions wow, i can't wait for those riveting ucf-temple and rutgers-navy divisional matchups.
zdnet cbs cares | cbs films | cbs radio | cbs.com | cbsinteractive | cbsnews.com | cbssports.com | chow | clicker | cnet | college network | find articles | gamespot | help.com | last.fm |maxpreps | metacritic.com | moneywatch | mysimon | radio.com | search.com | shopper.com | showtime | smartplanet | techrepublic | the insider | tv.com | urbanbaby.com | zdnet about cbssports.com | advertise | site map | development center © 2012 cbs interactive.
sportsline is a registered service mark of sportsline.com, inc.
| help not a member, register now!
big untapped tv market of raleigh, tidewater and charlotte.
smu and ucf are riding a high and at the moment ecu is in flux.
smu and houston are flashes in the pan and don't make noise but once every ten years.
but am just like this guy blogging and speaking of information i believe to know as facts but not 100 percent.
beyond navy, air force and ucf, a league source said “no one team is  definitely next” as an expansion candidate.
even the ucf announcer calling the game for css said "there are a few empty seats for today's game because of florida georgia" big east wants a fan base that will not show up for a major divisional game because two other teams not related to the university is playing an annual neutral site game.
sign-in forgot log-in or password ?
some  league members support adding boise state because of the broncos’ recent  success, which would help the league with its future bcs status.
the big east is a wonderful basketball conference, and they should focus on maximizing what they do best.
other than the potential usf-ucf rivalry, i can't see any other matchup drawing much interest at all.
that support and follow their team to away games.
while commissioner john marinatto said in a statement monday the league would consider a model with 12 football members, part of tuesday’s call was discussing the possibility of splitting the football and basketball conference into divisions, once the football side is replenished.
level: all-star since: dec 13, 2007 posted on: october 11, 2011 3:20 pm
[ reply to comment ] incredabull reputation: 65 level: pro since: oct 11, 2011 posted on: october 11, 2011
mostly because until recent memory the south has not had nfl competition and college was the only game in town.
top 3 attendance outside the aq schools.
the big east is about to be on the same level as the mac.
philadelphia (temple) is the nation’s
we are confident that boise state  will be well positioned for future success, and we will evaluate our status  with the best interests of the entire university in mind.
that same day ucf hosted ecu
yes, i'm a pirate fan but ecu as a better overall sports program for the big east.
score: 89 big east plotting football, hoops divisions even if you somehow form a football conference, you'll lose your aq bcs bids and in turn, your leftover football schools will bolt leaving you in limbo.
i am biased like everyone else in this idiotic argument of college football realignment.
reason, logic, common sense and good thinking do not belong.
if ucf is such a bad choice then who do you propose would be a better choice out of the pool of non-aq teams available?
isn't it time to acknowledge the obvious and drop football, allow the remaining 6 football programs to seek membership in viable football conferences?
and last season florida and georgia played on 10/30 in jacksonville.
boise state president bob kustra said in a statement monday that the  broncos “are looking forward to their inaugural season” in the  mountain west conference and he “has great confidence in the future  direction of the mountain west.”
the presidents, chancellors and athletic directors continued to discuss potential expansion candidates.
i will wait to see an official big east announcement.
however, there remains the very real possibility louisville and west  virginia may not be in the league and bound for the big 12 if missouri leaves  for the sec or the big 12 expands to 12 teams.
hitching on to service academies and former schools is terrible.
follow me on twitter: @mcmurphycbs subscribe to this blog recent blog entries mcmurphy's law cbssports.com
why don't you people quit making up news so people will read your crap.
what make temple, smu and houston attractive to the big east, one source  said, is their respective television markets.
a league source also told cbssports.com that army is no longer being considered as a candidate by the big east.
[ reply to comment ] topdogg18sjo reputation: 99 level: superstar since: aug 24, 2006 posted on: october 11, 2011 3:26 pm
compete for up to $3,500 with fantasy baseball premium games.
“while we are certainly flattered to be mentioned in connection with other conferences and we hold those leagues in high regard, our current focus is on continuing to build the outstanding athletic programs that have helped make boise state a popular and compelling national brand," kustra said.
name: private  gender:  member since: may  23, 2011 email: private  favorite teams big east plotting football, hoops divisions posted on: october 11,  2011 1:50 pm officials from what’s left of the big east’s dwindling football  membership had another conference call on tuesday morning and there remains no  specific timetable on adding ucf, but “appears an invitation is  forthcoming” for the knights, the league’s no. 1 target.
category: ncaaf tags: air  force, army, big 12, big east, boise state, cincinnati, houston, louisville,  navy, rutgers, south florida, temple, ucf, uconn, west virginia « prev · 1 · 2 · 3 · 4 · 5 · 6 · 7 · 8 · 9 · 10 · next »
you don't have any idea which teams are being looked at then the next guy.
however,  others believe boise state, located nearly 700 miles west of air force and  nearly 2,200 miles from tampa/usf, is simply too far to consider.
uh is also close to breaking ground on a new 40,000 (expandable to 50,000) seat stadium.
the cadets were 9-41 in c-usa play and  finished last in the league five of the seven seasons.
[ reply to comment ] solidkjames reputation: 21 level: amateur since: sep 20, 2011
sec never used market in their argument for expansion, they used what team would bring in fans, money and attention.
a full 50,000 seat stadium or 49,000 in a 50,000 is much better than having most of your "fans" at another .
“they’ve been honest  with us and that they’re not interested because of the challenges they  had previously in conference usa,” the source said.
navy, air force and boise state are being considered as football members  only, while ucf, temple, houston and smu are at the top of the list as  all-sports members so it’s unknown right now how large the basketball  membership could grow.
nova stinks, they play in a cracker jack box of division ii mediocrity.
also everyone fails to mention there is not a single team in the sec with a large market.
last year uh sold out every home game.
the views expressed in this blog are solely those of the author and do not reflect the views of cbs sports or cbssports.com visit other cbs interactive sites select site cbs cares cbs films cbs radio cbs.com cbsinteractive cbsnews.com cbssports.com chow clicker cnet college network find articles gamespot help.com last.fm maxpreps metacritic.com moneywatch mysimon radio.com search.com shopper.com showtime smartplanet techrepublic the insider tv.com urbanbaby.com
central fantasy news and analysis - fantasy football player news, rankings, projections - fantasy baseball player news, rankings, projections - fantasy basketball player news, rankings, projections - fantasy hockey player news, rankings, projections - nfl home - draft - scores - standings - schedules - stats - teams - players - transactions - free agents - injuries - experts - video - message board - rapidreports - blog - fantasy news - mlb home - scores - standings - schedules - stats - teams - players - transactions - injuries - experts - video - message board - fantasy news - blog - nba home - scores - playoff picture - standings - schedules - stats - teams - players - transactions - injuries - experts - video - message board - fantasy news - blog - nhl home - scores - playoff picture - standings - schedules - stats - teams - players - transactions - injuries - video - message board - fantasy news - blog - college fb home - scores - standings - schedules - stats - teams - players - rankings - experts - video - message board - rapidreports - recruiting - spring practices - blog - college bb home - brackets - scores - standings - schedules - stats - teams - players - rankings - experts - picks - video - rapidreports - message board - recruiting - blog - golf home - masters - leaderboard - schedules - players - stats - expert picks - video - message board - course guide - blog - nascar home - sprint cup - nationwide - trucks - teams - tracks - video - message board - blog - tennis home - scores - schedules - rankings - players - message board - high school home - football recruiting - hoops recruiting - football rankings - hoops rankings - girls volleyball rankings - girls volleyball teams - bowling - boxing - horse racing - ufc - site index - cbs sports - cbs sports network - showtime - cbssports.com shop - nfl shop - mlb shop - nhl shop - college apparel - nba store - dvd store - auctions - memorabilia - video home - masters live - ulive - live college games - fantasy baseball 360 - conversations with cbs sports - a game of honor - tim brando show - community home - my profile - my blog - groups - my settings -
“they’ve been honest with us and that they’re not interested because of the challenges they had previously in conference usa,” the source said.
i would bet everyone in the sec minus vandy outdraws the falcons even when they have a good year.
some league members support adding boise state because of the broncos’ recent success, which would help the league with its future bcs status.
this stinks just like 03-04 expansion.
posted on: october 11, 2011 3:05 pm score: 149 big east plotting football, hoops divisions this so called "source" that everyone writing articles keeps mentioning seems to not be in the same meetings.
only 3 non-aq schools had a higher average attendance last season (tcu, ecu and air force).
champion baseball and olympic sports.
they are in texas so they cant complete against ut, tamu, ok, dallas cowboys and houston texas.
the big east is the worst aq conference in the country because they do stupid stuff like wanting temple who they kicked out for sucking and now looking at ucf who this season is the 7th best team in florida, can't draw a sell out crowd of 40,000 people when they give away tickets and have the worst fanbase in the state of florida.
privacy policy | ad choice | terms of use | mobile user agreement | cbs sports is a registered trademark of cbs broadcasting inc.
we are confident that boise state will be well positioned for future success, and we will evaluate our status with the best interests of the entire university in mind.
but you don't have to worry you have the nod according to lots of people as the best fit for the be and enjoy it, ucf did not earn it and the tv's will be watching other games.
* you pitt and syracuse for ruining this conference.
bergersphere, 03/10/12 1:16
reputation: 0 level: amateur since: oct 11, 2011 posted on: october 11, 2011 3:23 pm score: 112 big east plotting football, hoops divisions byu has higher average attendance last season than all of those teams, i watched the ecu ucf game on tv and there was an announced attendance of 40,073 but it looked like the fans had an aluminum out.
7:35 pm - mac reorganizes after temple departure 03/07/12 4:24 pm - big east adds temple as an all sports member 03/07/12 10:38 am - temple to big east after it settles with mac 03/02/12
because ucf going to the big east has been supposedly been announced each week for the last year.
but when you consider ucf plays a home schedule with teams like rice, tulane and memphis, its not that bad either.
blogs - it's true: i'm moving 03/12/12 11:22 am - big east "open" to pitt, syracuse leaving early 03/07/12
pm officials from what’s left of the big east’s dwindling football membership had another conference call on tuesday morning and there remains no specific timetable on adding ucf, but “appears an invitation is forthcoming” for the knights, the league’s no. 1 target.
among those mentioned were ucf, air force, navy, temple, houston, smu and boise state, a league source told cbssports.com.
enter your bracket for a chance to win a trip for 4 to the 2013 ncaa® final four® see all games visit app
temple is the same thing only they play in eagles stadium but the eagles will have a tough time filling it.
posted on: october 11, 2011 3:00 pm score: 138 big east plotting football, hoops divisions actually ucf's stadium capacity is about 45,000, not 35,000.
stream saturday and sunday on cbs: the masters live on cbs sports network: tim brando show search - fantasy - nfl - mlb - nba - nhl - college fb - college bb - golf - nascar - tennis - high school - more sports - video - community - tv - mobile - shop games the official fantasy baseball commissioner game of mlb.com.
ecu and ucf are the most qualified to go and one does not have disney world in their backyard.
eye on football, 03/10/12 11:41 am mcmurphy's law's tags brett mcmurphy's favorites - big east (70) - big 12 (46) - west virginia (40) - houston (31) - syracuse (31) - boise state (30) - louisville (30) - sec (30) - pittsburgh (27) - ucf (27) - acc (21) - navy (21) - smu (21) - tcu (20) - oklahoma (19) - air force (18) - oklahoma state (17) - rutgers (17) - byu (16) - cincinnati (15) - alabama (14) - big ten (14) - lsu (14) - missouri (14) - texas (14) - uconn (14) - nebraska (13) - temple (13) - memphis (12) - south florida (12) - arkansas (11) - baylor (11) - florida (11) - kansas state (11) - notre dame (11) - texas a&m (11) - clemson (10) - john marinatto (10) - mike slive (10) - mountain west (10) - ohio state (10) - san diego state (10) - southern miss (10) - virginia tech (10) - bcs (9) - conference usa (9) - florida state (9) - michigan (9) - stanford (9) - auburn (8) - ncaa (8) - pac-12 (8) - penn state (8) - south carolina (8) - usc (8) - georgia tech (7) - michigan state (7) - oregon (7) - akron (6) - georgia (6) - mac (6) - marshall (6) - miami (6) - mississippi state (6) - tennessee (6) - tulane (6) - uab (6) - duke (5) - east carolina (5) - iowa (5) - maryland (5) - n.c. state (5) - new mexico (5) - sun belt (5) - tulsa (5) - utep (5) - villanova (5) - wac (5) - wisconsin (5) - army (4) - colorado (4) - colorado state (4) - georgetown (4) - kentucky (4) - les miles (4) - marquette (4) - minnesota (4) - north carolina (4) - oliver luck (4) - providence (4) - seton hall (4) - texas tech (4) - tom holmoe (4) - unlv (4) - utah (4) - vanderbilt (4) - virginia (4) - washington (4) - atlantic 10 (3) - bobby petrino (3) no favorites
the cadets were 9-41 in c-usa play and finished last in the league five of the seven seasons.
[ reply to comment ] maskedoutlaw
boise state president bob kustra said in a statement monday that the broncos “are looking forward to their inaugural season” in the mountain west conference and he “has great confidence in the future direction of the mountain west.”
“the landscape of college athletics is exceptionally fluid, and we are continuing to monitor the situation.
butler and have their own conference that isn't diluted with poor programs.
additionally we are averaging 31,000 (32,000 capacity) per game.
boise state’s athletic achievements, academic and research successes, popularity, and vision for future growth make the university an extremely valuable conference partner.”
what make temple, smu and houston attractive to the big east, one source said, is their respective television markets.
while i think tamu will not do any better in the sec they bring a new fan base and tv's from texas that watch the games not a city that no one watches.
army was in c-usa from 1998-2004.
among those mentioned were ucf, air force,  navy, temple, houston, smu and boise state, a league source told cbssports.com.
i would be afraid to be in ucf's stadium if it was expanded to 56,000.
category: ncaaf tags: air force, army, big 12, big east, boise state, cincinnati, houston, louisville, navy, rutgers, south florida, temple, ucf, uconn, west virginia « prev · 1 · 2 · 3 · 4 · 5 · 6 · 7 · 8 · 9 · 10 · next » commentsadd a comment swyodarth reputation: 99 level: superstar since: aug 30, 2006 posted on: october 11, 2011 3:49 pm score: 96 big east plotting football, hoops divisions just add all three service academies as football-only, along with temple, ucf, and houston or memphis.
pm - eye on football blog has a new home!
[ reply to comment ] joapepchi reputation: 51 level: pro since: oct 22, 2008 posted on: october 11, 2011 3:10 pm score: 93 big east plotting football, hoops divisions real_zeel, perhaps you should look at your tv schedule more closely as every uh game this year has/is on tv.
their average attendance for last season was just under 40,000.
2:58 pm - i've moved freestyle, 03/13/12 12:31 pm - i've moved dodds and ends, 03/10/12 4:45 pm - bull pennings
a league source also told cbssports.com that army is no longer being  considered as a candidate by the big east.
while commissioner john marinatto said in a statement monday the league  would consider a model with 12 football members, part of tuesday’s call  was discussing the possibility of splitting the football and basketball  conference into divisions, once the football side is replenished.
[ reply to comment ] « prev · 1 · 2 · 3 · 4 · 5 · 6 · 7 · 8 · 9 · 10 · next » about mcmurphy's law up-to-the-minute college football news, views and analysis.
the presidents, chancellors and athletic directors continued to discuss  potential expansion candidates.
there also appears to be conflicting opinions on pursuing boise state.