the highly-rated central defender, jan vertonghen, has remained one of the most consistent performers at ajax amsterdam for the last couple of seasons.
the 24-year-old has an ongoing contract that will keep  him at amsterdam arena until the summer of 2013.
he was a decent player during his spell at ajax, but is now seen as one of the best defenders around in the premier league.
by: ashley white - isn’t he clever and heavy breathing makes it a ...
he's  always calm on the ball, and knows when to move into midfield.
ronald de boer, the former dutch midfielder, was all praise for the belgian stopper.
by: jan van eyck latest sports news view all latest sports news - gennadi will look to land the blue grass stakes...
vertonghen has thus far represented the amsterdam giants in 146 matches and managed to net 21 goals.
i'm 100 per cent sure that he would succeed there”, de boer was quoted as saying to nusport.nl.
however, it is wildly expected that the highly-rated central defender will make his dream move to one of the elite european clubs before the start of the 2012/13 campaign with arsenal looking to be his destination.
the dutchman has also expressed confidence in the belgian international that he can surely become as good as jaap stam, the former dutch international.
apply now sports stories by jan van eyck view all sports stories by jan - psv eindhoven’s jetro willems signs contract ex...by: jan van eyck - ajax’s theo janssen: kolbeinn sigthorsson’s goa...
by: michael anderson - relegation from the serie a not an option for f...
the 41-year-old went on to insist that the centre-back is far better than  arsenal’sthomas vermaelen, who moved to emirates after plying his trade  at amsterdam arena for six seasons.
sign in to post a comment comments (0) popular football (soccer) news view all top football (soccer) news - rudi garcia and rio mavuba ... - barcelona are closely follo... - relegation from the serie a... - miroslav klose confident of... - rooney focused on title charge categories - football (soccer) - cricket - tennis - baseball - basketball - auto racing - golf - ice hockey - horse racing - football (nfl) - rugby - boxing - volleyball - swimming - badminton see all categories - cycling - motorsports - greyhound racing - hockey - snooker - surfing - fantasy sports - rugby union - soccer - athletics - ufc/
despite reports linking him with many of the english premier league  and serie a clubs, the 41-year-old has insisted that the 24-year-old should  join barcelona or real madrid.
category: football (soccer) news ronald de boer is of the view that the belgian stopper would fit in  atbarcelona or real madrid and claims that he can surely become as good as jaap  stam.
check latest odds, picks and predictions and enjoy the football betting at its best!
by: rusty shackleford - reasons why gemologist could suffer an upset in...
by: jan van eyck - de graafschap’s richard roelofsen: we played we...
relegation from the serie a...
he was a decent player during his spell at ajax, but is now seen as  one of the best defenders around in the premier league.
his good performances at the back have not gone unnoticed, as a host of  elite european clubs includingarsenal, newcastle united, tottenham hotspur, ac  milan and juventus are keen to acquire his services in the upcoming summer  transfer window.
the 24-year-old has an ongoing contract that will keep him at amsterdam arena until the summer of 2013.
“vertonghen would fit in very well at real madrid or barcelona.
and vertonghen is  better than vermaelen”, de boer concluded.
check latest  odds, picks and predictions and enjoy the football betting at its best!
andre figo write for bettor join today and become a bettor.com writer.
nhl pakistan premier league real madrid soccer south africa tennis uefa champions league ask question follow us: twitter rss - - american football - baseball - basketball - boxing - cricket - darts - football - golf - greyhound racing - horse racing - - ice hockey - motorsport - rugby league - rugby union - snooker - tennis - special bets - - blogs home - answers home - sports list - results - - rules regulations - privacy policy - terms conditions - responsible gambling - site links - login - register - recent questions - unanswered questions - answered questions - popular questions - recent guides - top guides - sitemap contact us | rules regulations | privacy policy | terms conditions | responsible gambling copyright © 2010bettor, inc.
the highly-rated central defender, jan vertonghen, has remained one of the  most consistent performers at ajax amsterdam for the last couple of seasons.
by: lucien lefevre preud'homme - barcelona are closely following sebastian giovi...
by: rusty shackleford arsenal australia barcelona baseball chelsea cricket england english premier league ferrari football germany india liverpool major league baseball manchester city manchester united mclaren mlb mlb news mlb update nba nfl
by: michael anderson - miroslav klose confident of quick recovery ahea...
his good performances at the back have not gone unnoticed, as a host of elite european clubs includingarsenal, newcastle united, tottenham hotspur, ac milan and juventus are keen to acquire his services in the upcoming summer transfer window.
articles view all most recent - rudi garcia and rio mavuba come to the defence ...
vertonghen has thus far represented the amsterdam giants in 146 matches and  managed to net 21 goals.
i'm 100 per cent  sure that he would succeed there”, de boer was quoted as saying to  nusport.nl.
tagged in: arsenal, ac milan, barcelona, tottenham hotspur, real madrid, thomas vermaelen, ajax amsterdam, jaap stam, jan vertonghen, ronald de boer bettor.com brings all latest resources for soccer betting .
“he has what it takes to become as good as jaap stam.
the 41-year-old went on to insist that the centre-back is far better than arsenal’sthomas vermaelen, who moved to emirates after plying his trade at amsterdam arena for six seasons.
the dutchman has also expressed confidence in the belgian international  that he can surely become as good as jaap stam, the former dutch international.
by: jurgen schneider - rooney focused on title chargeby:
by: rusty shackleford - bob arum, juan manuel marquez and brandon rios’...
and vertonghen is better than vermaelen”, de boer concluded.
by: rusty shackleford - the keeneland under tack show had lightning fas...
just look at vermaelen.
mma - wrestling - sailing - recreation and sports - football (gridiron) other sports news - jupp heynckes confident of arjen robben stay - mats hummels eagerly awaits bayern munich clash - patrick helmes focussed on wolfsburg - ilkay gundogan dreams of playing for germany in euro 2012 - philipp lahm eyes champions league final - schweinsteiger tips bayern for the champions league last-four related football (soccer)
despite reports linking him with many of the english premier league and serie a clubs, the 41-year-old has insisted that the 24-year-old should join barcelona or real madrid.
just look at  vermaelen.
tagged in: arsenal, ac milan, barcelona, tottenham hotspur, real madrid, thomas  vermaelen, ajax amsterdam, jaap stam, jan vertonghen, ronald de boer bettor.com brings all latest resources for soccer betting .
miroslav klose confident of... rooney focused on title charge view all top  football (soccer) news categories
ronald de boer, the former dutch midfielder, was all praise for the belgian  stopper.
he's always calm on the ball, and knows when to move into midfield.
sign in to post a comment comments (0) popular football (soccer) news rudi garcia and rio mavuba ... barcelona are closely follo...
beta - faq / help - contact us - one-to-one live help - sports - results - blogs home - answers home - videos - sign in - join now - football - players - clubs - countries - news - cricket - players - clubs - countries - news - icc world cup 2011 - tennis - horse racing - greyhound racing - golf - boxing - basketball - auto racing - snooker - others sports news » football (soccer) news »
ajax’s jan vertonghen is better than arsenal’s thomas vermaelen ajax’s jan vertonghen is better than arsenal’s thomas vermaelen (0) (0) posted by: jan van eyck category: football (soccer) news ronald de boer is of the view that the belgian stopper would fit in atbarcelona or real madrid and claims that he can surely become as good as jaap stam.
by: jan van eyck - ajax’s dmitri bulykin: i will decide about my f...by: jan van eyck - fc twente defender douglas on newcastle united ...
however, it is wildly expected that the highly-rated central defender will  make his dream move to one of the elite european clubs before the start of the  2012/13 campaign with arsenal looking to be his destination.