i'm in some head-to-head basketball leagues and the whole category thing is just kind of dull.
the closest fantasy basketball comes to this is when a player is playing only one or two games.
in basketball, you  often find out about injuriesafter the game has started, when it's too  late to do anything about.
the views expressed by rotowire.com represent only the views of   the writers; they do not represent the views of the nba or any nba  team.
we have one up and running in my office.
in basketball, you often find out about injuriesafter the game has started, when it's too late to do anything about.
when your quarterback and receiver happen to be teammates and hook up for score?
in fact, many of the reasons i listed last week for why i like  basketball more can actually be used as a reason for why football is  better.
and with all those games (including late games), most of which aren't on t.v., it's less fun to "watch" your games.
ok, i hate bye weeks, but they do add a little  strategy.
in fact, many of the reasons i listed last week for why i like basketball more can actually be used as a reason for why football is better.
you can win a league without doing much more  than that.
the big play can turn your week around.
commentscomments copyright © nba media ventures, llc.
what started as a nice piece of  information for regular gamblers has become invaluable to fantasy players as  well.
i guarantee if i  tried to do fantasy basketball in my office, i wouldn't get any more than three  or four players.
even better, you can set up a football league very  easily.
i'm in some  head-to-head basketball leagues and the whole category thing is just kind of  dull.
you can find out easily if a player is out, doubtful, questionable, or probable, and usually a few days before sunday.
when kobe bryant  makes a steal and runs down the court for a thundering dunk, you can smile and  say "i got credit for a steal, two points, and my field goal percentage  went up slightly."
your california privacy rights and terms of use.
you just don't have the time.
in football, you have one team to beat in points and you can spend all day sunday watching your match-up.
when kobe bryant makes a steal and runs down the court for a thundering dunk, you can smile and say "i got credit for a steal, two points, and my field goal percentage went up slightly."
additionally, a basketball player is far more  likely to sit out a game with minor injuries or "flu-like  symptoms."  that's what happens when you have 82 games instead of 16.
head-to-head once a week is awesome.
additionally, a basketball player is far more likely to sit out a game with minor injuries or "flu-like symptoms."
i have a key week 10 battle against a rival, but my qb is on a bye.
you can gain big points in a hurry.
no portion of nba.com may be duplicated, redistributed or manipulated in any form.
that's nice and all, but what happens when your  running back explodes for a 50-yard td?
i guarantee if i tried to do fantasy basketball in my office, i wouldn't get any more than three or four players.
that's nice and all, but what happens when your running back explodes for a 50-yard td?
i have a key week 10 battle against a rival, but my qb is on a  bye.
if you're in just one football league, it's so easy to keep track of it.
last week, i talked about how fantasy basketball is better than fantasy football, but the fact of the matter is that fantasy basketball can be just as frustrating as fantasy football, and in many ways, football is the superior product.
hey, i won 5-to-3-to-1 this week!
all you have to remember is what day(s) you can pick up free agents, and you can then spend about five minutes making your moves for the week.
what started as a nice piece of information for regular gamblers has become invaluable to fantasy players as well.
i had to make a trade to pick up a second quarterback just because i  can't let damian beat me.
if you're in just one football league,  it's so easy to keep track of it.
in basketball, you "lose" in turnovers even when you pull ahead in other categories.
when your defense returns an  interception for a touchdown?
i had to make a trade to pick up a second quarterback just because i can't let damian beat me.
even better, you can set up a football league very easily.
cst anyone can do it!
why  fantasy football is better than fantasy basketball
the closest fantasy basketball comes to this is  when a player is playing only one or two games.
you can win a league without doing much more than that.
last week, i talked about how fantasy basketball is better than fantasy  football, but the fact of the matter is that fantasy basketball can be just as  frustrating as fantasy football, and in many ways, football is the superior  product.
when your defense returns an interception for a touchdown?
nba.com is part of the turner sports and entertainment digital network
and with all those games (including late  games), most of which aren't on t.v., it's less fun to "watch" your  games.
by kenn_ruby nov  6, 2009 9:42 pm
ok, i hate bye weeks, but they do add a little strategy.
by accessing any information beyond this page, you agree to abide by theprivacy policy /
in basketball, you "lose" in turnovers even when you  pull ahead in other categories.
you can find out easily if a player is out, doubtful, questionable,  or probable, and usually a few days before sunday.
the views expressed by rotowire.com represent only the views of the writers; they do not represent the views of the nba or any nba team.
when your quarterback and receiver happen  to be teammates and hook up for score?
still, you wouldn't bench chris paul if he only had two games this week, would you?
that's what happens when you have 82 games instead of 16.
all you have to remember is what day(s)  you can pick up free agents, and you can then spend about five minutes making  your moves for the week.
in football, you have one  team to beat in points and you can spend all day sunday watching your  match-up.