the lead law enforcement officer for the county is allegheny county district attorney stephen zappala.
all of its major professional sports teams—thesteelers of the national football league, the penguins of the national hockey league, and the pirates of major league baseball [132]—share the same team colors, the official city colors of black and gold.
the pittsburgh police bureau is the law enforcement arm of the city and the pittsburgh fire bureau is a major emergency response unit in western pennsylvania.
the north side is home to various neighborhoods in transition.
marathon · great race arboretum · arsenal · artgardens · biblical garden ·
representatives in thepennsylvania house of representatives include jake  wheatley (19th district), don walko (20), dominic costa (21), chelsa wagner  (22), dan frankel (23),joseph preston, jr. (24), dan deasy (27), paul costa  (34), and harry readshaw (36).
navigation around the city and its suburbs can also be accomplished via the non-expresswaypittsburgh/allegheny county belt system.
the steelers have a long waiting  list for season tickets, and have sold out every home game since 1972.[135]
frick park has biking trails and hartwood  acres park has many miles of single track trails.
there are two major daily newspapers in pittsburgh: the liberal pittsburgh post-gazette and the conservative pittsburgh tribune-review .
since the 1970s, the  suburban-basedrobert morris university's colonials have also competed in ncaa  division i basketball.
during the 1940s to the 1970s, duquesne was the city's most successful men's college basketball program.
new writers includechris kuzneski who attended theuniversity of pittsburgh and mentions pittsburgh in his books.
the government's official offices are located in thepittsburgh city-county building .
the city is on the allegheny plateau, where the confluence of the allegheny river from the northeast and monongahela river from the southeast form the ohio river.
collegiate companies include the university of pittsburgh'srepertory theatre and kuntu repertory theatre, point park university's resident companies at itspittsburgh playhouse, and carnegie mellon university's school of drama productions andscotch'n'soda organization.
thestrip district is an open-air marketplace by day and a clubbing destination by night.
victorias · pros · shamrocks · yellow jackets · pirates · hornets · phantoms historic soccer: phantoms · cannons · beadling · hurricanes · spirit historic other: triangles (tennis) ·
installation art is featured outdoors at artgardens of pittsburgh.
duquesne, carnegie mellon university andwashington & jefferson  college all posted major bowl games and ap poll rankings from the 1920s to the  1940s as that era's equivalent of top 25 fbs programs.
pittsburgh ( /ˈpɪtsbərɡ/, pits -burg) is the second-largest city in the u.s. commonwealth of pennsylvania and thecounty seat of allegheny county.
for example, there were more than 40 high ozone days reported between 1997 and 1999, a figure which fell to fewer than 15 between 2007 and 2009.[53] the allegheny county health department also notes this improvement in air quality.
with the exception of the 1973 and 1977 elections (where lifelong democrats ran off the party ticket), democratic candidates have been elected consecutively to the mayor's office since the great depression.
theblizzard of 1993 dumped over 23 inches (58 cm) of snow in under 24 hours, and thefirst north american blizzard of 2010 dumped nearly 2 feet (60 cm) of snow in less than 24 hours.[49] [50] an f2 tornado entered city limits on june 2, 1998.
while the city's status as an appalachian city is largely undisputed, the city has been described as not belonging culturally to any of the major "regions" of the united states such as themidwest or the east coast.
from theamerican civil war to the 1930s, pittsburgh was a republican  stronghold.
the pens are owned by hall of famermario lemieux, a back-to-back  playoffs mvp for the pens from 1984 to 2006.
the city's rivers also have been the reason the forrest wood cup and the bassmaster classic chose pittsburgh as host of their annual championships.
"i-376 is both the "parkway east" connecting to i-76 (pennsylvania turnpike) and the "parkway west" connecting to i-79 , thepittsburgh international airport, the ohio end of the turnpike and i-80.
[ 59] the cultural district comprises a 14-block area of downtown along the allegheny river.
the dialect is also notable for dropping the verb "to be".
there is a quarterly gallery crawl in the downtown area's cultural district that is free and open to the public to enjoy the local art scene as well as thethree rivers arts festival, which takes place in the same downtown area annually during the summer.
while pittsburgh faced an economic crisis in the 1980s as the regional steel industry waned,[16] modern pittsburgh is economically strong.[17] the housing market is relatively stable despite a nationalsubprime mortgage crisis, and pittsburgh added jobs in 2008 even as the national economy entered a significant jobs recession.[18] this positive economic trend is in contrast to the 1980s, when pittsburgh lost its manufacturing base in steel and electronics, and corporate jobs in the oil (gulf oil), electronics (westinghouse ), chemical (koppers) and defense (rockwell international) industries.
in 1993 theurban redevelopment authority of pittsburgh purchased the south side works steel mill property, and worked together with the community and various developers to create a master plan for a mixed-use development including a riverfront park, office space, housing, health-care facilities, and thepittsburgh steelers and pitt panthers indoor practice fields.
the act of march 5, 1804, which modified the provision of the old charter of the borough of pittsburgh in 1794 (the original of which is not known to exist), refers throughout to the "borough of pittsburgh".[34][citation needed] the war of 1812 cut off the supply of british goods, stimulating american manufacture.
pitt plays at thepeterson events center, which has been sold out every season since its opening in 2002.
since the 1970s, the suburban-basedrobert morris university's colonials have also competed in ncaa division i basketball.
the "parkway north" isi-279 connecting to i-79.
pittsburgh's unique literary style extends to playwrights,[89] as well as local graffiti and hip hop artists.
in 1924, the city was awarded one of the nhl's first franchises on the strength of its back-to-back usaha championship winning pittsburgh yellow jackets featuring future hall of famers and a stanley cup winning coach.
since the afl-nfl merger in 1970 they have qualified for more playoff berths (25) and have played in (15) and hosted (11) more conference championship games than any other nfl franchise.
pitt news of the  university of pittsburgh, the tartan of carnegie mellon university , "the duquesne duke" of "duquesne university", and the  globe of point park university.
[edit] basketball professional basketball has played a role in the city's sports landscape  since the 1910s, with "monticello" and "loendi" winningfive  national championships in the "black fives" league, the pittsburgh  ironmen (inaugural season of the nba), the pittsburgh rens (early 1960s), the  pittsburgh pipers (first american basketball association championship in 1968),  pittsburgh piranhas (cba finals in 1995), and recently the pittsburgh xplosion  andpittsburgh phantoms (both of the aba)
in 1940, non-hispanic whites were 90.6% of the city's population.
several tried to talk me out of slapping it on the cover, but were we called "the paris of the rockies," we wouldn't run from it.
the south side is one of the most popular neighborhoods in which to own a home in pittsburgh.
football: 1941 (fbs massey ratings), 1973  (ncfa club),2003 (fcs mid-major)
pittsburgh has one of the largest italian communities in the nation,[65] and also has the nation's fifth largestukrainian community[66] and the largest croatian community in the usa.
the city's population swelled to over a half million, many of whom were immigrants from europe who arrived via the great migration through ellis island.
the city is also served by the pittsburgh zoo and ppg aquarium, phipps conservatory and botanical gardens, and the national aviary.
such golf legends as arnold palmer and jim furyk learned the game and began their careers on pittsburgh area courses.
pittsburgh has seventeen sister cities:[174][175] airport · conventions · city hall · courthouse ·
the projects are being planned by the pennsylvania turnpike commission.[162] the city is served by pittsburgh international airport (iata: pit) 17 miles (27 km) to the west infindlay township.[163] the airport was the long time major hub forus airways from the company's start in the 1940s until the mid 2000's.
pittsburgh dance council and the pittsburgh ballet theater host a variety of dance events.
with the french citing the 1669 discovery by lasalle, these events led to thefrench and indian war.
local universities duquesne and robert morris have loyal fan bases that follow their lower(fcs) teams.
in terms of annual percent-average possible sunshine received, pittsburgh (45%) is similar toseattle (43%).[48] although pittsburgh generally experiences moderate weather, a few extreme weather events occurred between 1990 and 2010.
i-70, i-79 and i-76 (the turnpike) roughly form a triangular-shaped "beltway" with i-80 andi-68 within the city's media market's northern and southern boundaries.
the black-and-gold color scheme has since become widely associated with the city and personified in its famousterrible towel.
appearing in the 1940final four,  the dukes were the city's first college basketball team to obtain a number one  ranking in theap poll in 1954,[137] and remain the only city team to have won a  post-season college basketball tournament, the1955 nit, its second straight  trip to the nit title game.
[edit] baseball pnc park, home of the pittsburgh pirates.
such golf legends as arnold palmer and jim furyk learned the  game and began their careers on pittsburgh area courses.
today, the ratio of democratic to republican registrations within the city is 5 to 1.[138] the mayor and the nine-member council serve a four-year term.
highland · market square · mckinley · mellon · mellon green · mellon square · phillips · point · point of view · ppg place · riverfront · riverview · schenley · schenley plaza · south side · three rivers · west · west end ·
annual events continue during the winter months at area ski resorts such asboyce park, seven springs and wisp as well as ice skating at ppg place and north park.
football is the most popular and tradition laden sport in the region with  the nation's first-ever professional game being played in the city on november  12, 1892 between theallegheny athletic association and the pittsburgh athletic  club, as well as the first pro-team in nearby latrobe and first organized  league, thenfl and their inaugural champions the pittsburgh stars.
pitt  plays at thepeterson events center, which has been sold out every season since  its opening in 2002.
"cleveburgh": pittsburgh and cleveland  are economically connected.
in 1924, the city was awarded one of the nhl's first  franchises on the strength of its back-to-back usaha championship winning pittsburgh yellow jackets featuring future hall of famers and a stanley cup  winning coach.
pittsburgh hornets have been ranked top 20 in the nation for the  last 7 years.
during world war ii, pittsburgh produced 95 million tons of steel.[32] by this time, the pollution from burning coal and steel production created a black fog (or smog), which even a century earlier had induced author writerjames parton to dub the city "hell with the lid off".[38] following the war, the city launched a clean air and civic revitalization project known as the "renaissance."
84 lumber, giant eagle, highmark ,rue 21, and genco supply chain solutions are major non-public companies with headquarters in the region.
in 1784, the laying out of the "town of pittsburgh" was completed by thomas viceroy of bedford county and approved by the attorney of the penns in philadelphia.
while 680,000 people lived in the city proper in 1950, a combination of suburbanization and economic turbulence caused a sharp decrease in city population to just 330,000 in the year 2000.
this ranks pittsburgh in a tie for the eighth-most fortune 500 headquarters in the nation.[78]
the pittsburgh police  bureau is the law enforcement arm of the city and the pittsburgh fire bureau is  a major emergency response unit in western pennsylvania.
robert morris and duquesne provide division i basketball as well and nearby penn state and west virginia university have a number of fans in the pittsburgh region.
the penguins have won four eastern conference championships  (1991, 1992, 2008, and 2009) and threestanley cup championships in 1991, 1992,  and 2009.
although pittsburgh successfully shifted the focus of its economy and remained a viable city, the city's population never rebounded to its industrial-era highs.
there are also threepublic radio stations in the area; including wesa 90.5 fm (national public radio affiliate and jazz music station operated by duquesne university), wqed 89.3 fm (classical), andwyep 91.3 fm (adult alternative).
with thegreat depression of the 1930s, the pirates folded from financial pressures, but hockey survived with the pittsburgh hornets farm team from the 1930s to 1967.
one  sportswriter claimed, "no city is more synonymous with black baseball than  pittsburgh.
the  government's official offices are located in thepittsburgh city-county building .
in 2010, forbes and yahoo! listed pittsburgh as the most livable city in the united states.[20][102] one month later, forbes named pittsburgh the 7th best place to raise a family.[103] in august 2010, pittsburgh was ranked the 4th best city for working mothers by forbes[104] and the city was ranked as one of the best for entrepreneurs by entrepreneur.[105] also, in 2007,forbes magazine named pittsburgh, in an eight-way tie, the 10th cleanest city in the world.[106] livability rankings typically consider factors such as cost of living, crime, and cultural opportunities.
local universities  duquesne and robert morris have loyal fan bases that follow their lower(fcs)  teams.
thetom cruise film all the right moves and espn's  documentarybound for glory with dick butkus, both filmed in the region,  capture the tradition and passion of high school football in thepittsburgh
the city's rivers also have been the reason the  forrest wood cup and the bassmaster classic chose pittsburgh as host of their  annual championships.
currently, the largest promotions at the airport is the expansion of other airlines, particularlydelta air lines' new direct trans-atlantic service to paris as well asjetblue and southwest airlines rapid expansion at the complex.
besides major pro teams in baseball, football and hockey, the university of pittsburgh's football and basketball teams have large fanbases.
list of hospitals in pittsburgh this section requiresexpansion.
pittsburgh is the closest  major city/media market to bothpenn state university and west virginia
briem argues that "in so many ways the state boundaries we think of as important are no more than lines on a map."[122]
the north side is also home to many popular attractions such asheinz field, pnc park, carnegie science center, national aviary, andy warhol museum, mattress factory installation art museum,children's museum of pittsburgh, highmark sportsworks, penn brewery and allegheny observatory.
irish (15.8%), italian (11.8%), polish (8.4%), and english (4.6%), while the metropolitan area is approximately 22% german, and 16%italian, and 12% irish.
for every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 87.8 males.
in 2006, expansion magazine ranked pittsburgh among the top 10 metropolitan areas in the nation for climates favorable to business expansion.[79] several fortune 500 corporations have headquarters in the city or the surrounding area.
please see the talk page for more information.
university of pittsburgh school of law is also home tojurist, the world's only university-based legal news service.
the pittsburgh pirates baseball team, often referred to as the bucs or sometimes the buccos (derived frombuccaneer), is the city's oldest professional sports franchise having been founded in 1882, and plays in thecentral division of thenational league.
the characteristic shape of pittsburgh's central business district is a triangular tract carved by the confluence of theallegheny and monongahela rivers, which form theohio river.
"[76] education is another major industry in the region.
[ 81] the region is also becoming a hub for natural gas and oil extraction in the marcellus shale formation.[82][83] in the 19th and 20th centuries, wealthy businessmen and nonprofit organizations donated millions of dollars to create educational and cultural institutions.
spring and autumn are mild to warm.
from 1967 until 2010 they played  their home games at one of the nhl's oldest venues, and the first retractable  domed stadium in the world, civic arena, or in local parlance "the  igloo".
authority the city is served by duquesne light, one of the original power companies  founded in 1912 bygeorge westinghouse.
in the city the population was spread out, with 19.9% under the age of 18, 14.8% from 18 to 24, 28.6% from 25 to 44, 20.3% from 45 to 64, and 16.4% who were 65 years of age or older.
this much-acclaimed effort was followed by the "renaissance ii" project, begun in 1977 and focusing more on cultural and neighborhood development than its predecessor.
at the 2010 census, there were 305,704 people residing in pittsburgh, a decrease of 8.6% since 2000.[62]
medicine in particular constitutes a large proportion of total employment in the city.
professional basketball has played a role in the city's sports landscape since the 1910s, with "monticello" and "loendi" winningfive national championships in the "black fives" league, the pittsburgh ironmen (inaugural season of the nba), the pittsburgh rens (early 1960s), the pittsburgh pipers (first american basketball association championship in 1968), pittsburgh piranhas (cba finals in 1995), and recently the pittsburgh xplosion andpittsburgh phantoms (both of the aba) collegiate basketball's fanbase was fueled since the early 20th century by thedukes of duquesne university and the panthers of the university of pittsburgh.
it features four distinct seasons, with precipitation somewhat evenly spread throughout the year.
the city of pittsburgh is home to many colleges, universities and research facilities, the most well-known of which arecarnegie mellon university, duquesne university, and the university of pittsburgh.
these areas, relative to downtown, are known as the north side, south side/south hills, east end, and west end.
pittsburgh public schools teachers are paid well relative to their peers, ranking 17th in 2000 among the 100 largest cities by population for the highest minimum salary offered to teachers with a ba ($34,300).[citation needed] pittsburgh ranked fifth in the highest maximum salary offered to teachers with an ma ($66,380).[citation needed] local public schools include many charter and magnet schools, includingcity charter high school (computer and technology focused), pittsburgh montessori school (formerly homewood montessori),pittsburgh gifted center, barack obama academy of international studies 6-12, pittsburgh creative and performing arts 6–12, pittsburgh science and technology academy, and a school for the blind, the western pennsylvania school for the deaf, or otherwise challenged children.
the steelers have a long waiting list for season tickets, and have sold out every home game since 1972.[135]
additionally the national negro opera company was founded in pittsburgh, and was the first all african-american opera company in the united states.
the west end includes mt. washington, with its famous view of the downtown skyline and numerous other residential neighborhoods likesheraden and elliott.
also located in the city arecarlow university, chatham university, point park university, the art institute of pittsburgh, and a branch campus of suburban robert morris university as well as the community college of allegheny county, the pennsylvania culinary institute, and the pittsburgh institute of mortuary science.
following the passage of the pennsylvania film production tax credit in  2006, activity in pittsburgh's film industry rapidly accelerated, further  diversifying the city and regional economy.[155] according to the pittsburgh  film office, over 123 major motion pictures have been filmed, in whole or in  part, in pittsburgh, includingthe mothman prophecies, wonder boys, dogma, hoffa, the silence of the lambs, and zack and  miri make a porno.
pittsburgh public schools teachers are paid well relative to their peers,  ranking 17th in 2000 among the 100 largest cities by population for the highest  minimum salary offered to teachers with a ba ($34,300).[citation needed]  pittsburgh ranked fifth in the highest maximum salary offered to teachers with  an ma ($66,380).[citation needed] local public schools include many  charter and magnet schools, includingcity charter high school (computer and  technology focused), pittsburgh montessori school (formerly homewood  montessori),pittsburgh gifted center, barack obama academy of international  studies 6-12, pittsburgh creative and performing arts 6–12, pittsburgh  science and technology academy, and a school for the blind, the western  pennsylvania school for the deaf, or otherwise challenged children.
the  steelers are more than a sports team to the region and itsdiaspora; many have  noted that news of the team has preempted media coverage of elections and other  major events.
despite being divided into  four states and three census bureau—defined regions, this area functions  as an interdependent economic region.[128] power of 32 asserts that "[t]he  32-county region has common challenges and opportunities in the global economy,  but is larger than the scope of any one single political entity, authority, or  organization",[129] and that "[t]he only thing we find at artificial  boundaries are problems, not solutions.
the per capita income for the city was $18,816.
pittsburgh became "gotham city" in 2011 during  filming ofthe dark knight rises.[156][157] horror director george a. romero, a  pittsburgh native, has shot nearly all of his films in and around pittsburgh,  including the majority of hisliving dead series.
the population of the city in 2010 was 305,704, while that of the seven-county metropolitan area stood at 2,356,285.[10] downtown pittsburgh retains substantial economic influence, ranking at 25th in the nation for jobs within the urban core and 6th in job density.[11]
art deco style allegheny county airport (agc) handles 139,000 general  aviation flights a year, and is located south of the city inwest mifflin.
about 15.0% of families and 20.4% of the population were below the poverty line, including 27.5% of those under the age of 18 and 13.5% ages 65 or older.
thepittsburgh new works festival utilizes local theatre companies to stage productions of original one-act plays by playwrights from all parts of the country.
the city's longest-running theater show,friday nite improvs, is an improv jam that has been performed in thecathedral of learning and other locations for 20 years.
pittsburgh's state senators include  jim ferlo (38th district), wayne d. fontana (42), and jay costa (43).
the pittsburghdesignated market area (dma) is the 22nd largest in the u.s. with 1,163,150 homes (1.045% of the total u.s.).[152] the major network television affiliates arekdka-tv 2 (cbs), wtae 4 (abc), wpxi 11 (nbc), wpgh-tv 53 (fox), wpcw 19 (cw), winp-tv 16 (ion), wpmy 22 (mynetworktv), and wpcb 40 ( cornerstone).
the city and the surrounding region serve as the northeast u.s. regional headquarters fornova chemicals, deloitte touche tohmatsu ,fedex ground, ariba, and the rand corporation.
it's just pittsburgh, and there's no place like it.
the school's student section refers to itself as the " oakland zoo", a reference to the oakland section of the city where the university is located.
[ citation needed] the two largest health care providers are the university of pittsburgh medical center and west penn allegheny health system, respectively.
many buildings date from the 19th century and are constructed of brick or stone and adorned with decorative woodwork, ceramic tile, slate roofs and stained glass.
pittsburgh also has a rich history innegro league baseball teams with the former pittsburgh crawfords and the homestead grays credited with as many as 14 league titles and 11 hall of famers between them.
as of the american community survey three-year estimate of 2006–2008, the city's population was 67.0% white (65.8% non-hispanic white alone), 26.5% black or african american, 1.0% american indian and alaska native, 3.5% asian, 0.1% native hawaiian and other pacific islander, 0.7% from some other race and 2.1% from two or more races.
[edit] government main article: government of pittsburgh see  also:list of mayors of pittsburgh, pittsburgh police chief, and allegheny  county district attorney the pittsburgh city-county building, seat  of city and county government, at right, with theallegheny county courthouse  designed byhenry hobson richardson, at left prior to the civil war, pittsburgh was largely in opposition to slavery.
by april 2008, the city and allegheny county were discussing a plan to  merge as early as 2009 in the interests of consolidating government and  enhancing the status of the region.[142] if approved, the city of pittsburgh  would annex all of surrounding allegheny county in a metropolitan government,  and the population would stand at 1.2 million, making pittsburgh the 10th  largest city in the united states.[143] however, opposition to this plan is  concerned of added bureaucracy of proposed "big government",  inefficiencies and possible corruption will be extended to the newly annexed  communities resulting in a loss of services and an increase in taxes due to  higher debt service costs of the city.
[edit] hockey civic arena, former home of the pittsburgh penguins hockey in pittsburgh has become increasingly popular on both the amateur  and professional levels during the last few decades of the 20th century, and  has had a regional fan base since the semi-propittsburgh keystones of the 1890s  and the first decade of the 20th century.
poetmichael simms, founder of autumn house press, currently resides in the mount washington neighborhood of pittsburgh.
since joining the big east conference in 1982, pitt has regularly found a place among the top 25 ncaa teams, including a number one ranking for several weeks in 2009, and has made thencaa men's basketball tournament for the past nine seasons, reaching the elite eight ln 2009.
locals who speak the dialect are sometimes referred to as " yinzers" (from the local word "yinz" [var.
the average household size was 2.17 and the average family size was 2.95.
the coldest month is january, when the 24-hour average is 27.5 °f (−2.5 °c), and sub-zero lows (below −18 °c) can be expected on an average 3.9 nights per year.[46] extremes in temperature range from −22 °f (−30 °c), on january 19, 1994 to 103 °f (39 °c), which last occurred on july 16, 1988.
rogers' neighborhood, several national geographic specials, and where in the world is carmen sandiego?[153] there are a wide variety of radio stations serving the pittsburgh market.
port authority of allegheny county, commonly known as the port authority, but sometimes referred to by its former nickname "pat" or "pat transit", is the region's mass transit system.
soccer in pittsburgh is represented by the pittsburgh riverhounds, a  professional soccer team playing in the second division of theunited soccer  leagues (usl).
during 1753–54, the british hastily built fort prince george, but a larger french expedition forced them to evacuate and the expedition then proceeded to constructfort duquesne on the site.
major crimes of a federal nature is covered by the u.s. attorney for the western district of pennsylvania.
robert morris university is based in the suburb ofmoon township, pennsylvania and maintains a satellite center in downtown pittsburgh.
duquesne dukes · pittsburgh panthers · robert morris colonials historic baseball: stogies · burghers · grays · filipinos/stogies ii/rebels · keystones ·
in 2005, 2009 and 2011, pittsburgh was named most livable city in the united states and in those years, between the 26th and 29th-most-livable city worldwide bythe economist.[21][101] pittsburgh ranked #28 in the book cities ranked and rated (2004) by bert sperling and peter sander.
carnegie mellon university (cmu) is a private research university founded by andrew carnegie and is ranked #22 overall on us news & world report list of america's best national universities.[144] carnegie mellon is known primarily for itscomputer science, engineering, business, economics, public policy, information systems, fine arts, and entrepreneurship programs.
after the death of mayorbob o'connor in september 2006, city council president luke ravenstahl was sworn in as the mayor of pittsburgh at age 26, becoming the youngest mayor in the history of any major american city.
[edit] public transportation port authority of allegheny county, commonly known as the port authority,  but sometimes referred to by its former nickname "pat" or "pat  transit", is the region's mass transit system.
one of its earliest industries was building boats for settlers to enter theohio country.
in nearby latrobe, washington, jennerstown, trafford, and greensburg, respectively, employ pittsburgh actors and contribute to the culture of the region.
appearing in the 1940final four, the dukes were the city's first college basketball team to obtain a number one ranking in theap poll in 1954,[137] and remain the only city team to have won a post-season college basketball tournament, the1955 nit, its second straight trip to the nit title game.
pro club league sport venue established championships pittsburgh pirates  mlb baseball pnc park 1882 1901 (pre-world series), 1902 (pre-world series),  1909, 1925, 1960, 1971, 1979
other area  courses such aslaurel valley golf club and the pittsburgh field club have  hosted pga championships, theryder cup, lpga championships and senior pga  championships.
frick park has biking trails and hartwood acres park has many miles of single track trails.
the campuses of carlow university, carnegie mellon university, and the  university of pittsburgh are located adjacent to each other in the oakland  neighborhood that is the traditional cultural and education center of the city.
pitt news of the university of pittsburgh, the tartan of carnegie mellon university , "the duquesne duke" of "duquesne university", and the globe of point park university.
construction began in 1998, and thesouthside works is now open for business with many store, restaurants, offices, and the world headquarters for american eagle outfitters.[61] the east end is home to the university of pittsburgh, carnegie mellon university, carlow university, chatham university, the carnegie institute's museums of art and natural history, frick art & historical center (clayton and the frick art museum),phipps conservatory, soldiers and sailors memorial hall, and the pittsburgh zoo and ppg aquarium.
its southern flank faces the ohio river .
i've long felt we should embrace that title, though  few are with me.
most notable are thecarnegie library of pittsburgh and the university of pittsburgh's university library system, which rank 9th-largest (public) and 18th largest (academic) in the nation, respectively.[151] there are two major daily newspapers in pittsburgh: the liberal pittsburgh post-gazette and the conservative pittsburgh tribune-review .
college football is also popular, with the majority of residents  supporting the localdivision i (fbs) panthers of the university of pittsburgh,  often referred to as "pitt", who compete in thebig east conference.
bulls (lacrosse) football heritage · regatta · grand prix · head of the ohio ·
the greater pittsburgh region boasts even more colleges and universities, includingclarion university of pennsylvania, laroche college, slippery rock university, westminster college and grove city college north of the city,robert morris university and geneva college west of the city, washington & jefferson college, california university of pennsylvania and waynesburg university to the south, and seton hill university, saint vincent college and indiana university of pennsylvania – the biggest state university – to the east.
it has so many local peculiarities that thenew york times described pittsburgh as, "the galapagos islands of american dialect.
this ranking was disputed by the allegheny county health department, since data from only one of pittsburgh's 20 air quality monitors were used by the ala.
pitt basketball heinz field petersen events center big east conference football: 1915, 1916, 1918, 1929,  1931, 1934, 1936, 1937, 1976 basketball: 1927–28, 1929–30 duquesne university dukes dukes basketball dukes football (fcs)
shady side academy, whose main campuses are located in fox chapel, has  a junior high school in the neighborhood ofpoint breeze.
the pittsburgh hornets, pittsburgh junior  penguins, pittsburgh predators, and the pittsburgh viper stars are tier 1 aaa  teams in the city of pittsburgh.
in addition to the downtown golden triangle, the city extends northeast to include theoakland and shadyside sections, which are home to theuniversity of pittsburgh, carnegie mellon university, carnegie museum and library, and many other educational, medical, and cultural institutions.
pittsburgh has multiple mountain biking areas close to the city in area  parks and in the surrounding suburbs.
pittsburgh is economically connected to the great lakes  megalopolis.
the average price for a 3- to 4-bedroom, 2-bath family home in pittsburgh is $162,000, which is well below the national average of $264,540, as of october 2004, according to the federal housing finance board.
private schools in pittsburgh include north catholic high school, bishop  canevin high school, seton-la salle catholic high school, central catholic high  school, oakland catholic high school, winchester thurston school, and the ellis  school.
water utility service is provided by the  pittsburgh water and sewer authority[173] and pennsylvania american water.
"i-376 is both the "parkway east" connecting to  i-76 (pennsylvania turnpike) and the "parkway west" connecting to i-79 , thepittsburgh international airport, the ohio end of the turnpike and i-80.
the population density was 6,019.0 people per square mile (2,324.1/km2).
[ citation needed] [edit] health care see also:
in 1749, french soldiers fromquebec launched a serious expedition to the forks in hopes of uniting british canada withfrench louisiana via the rivers.[31] governor pasquale jarupa of virginia sent major george washington to warn the french to withdraw.
companies include attack theatre,bald theatre company, barebones productions, bricolage production company, city theatre, phase 3 productions, pittsburgh irish and classical theatre, pittsburgh musical theater, pittsburgh playwrights theatre company, pittsburgh public theater, prime stage theatre, pittsburgh civic light opera, quantum theatre, hiawatha project, cup-a-jo productions, organic theater pittsburgh, 12 peers theater, three rivers theatre company, throughline theatre company, no name players, terra nova theatre group, theatre sans serif, and unseam'd shakespeare company.
the nhl'spittsburgh pirates, who were the first pittsburgh pro  team to don the "black and gold", made several stanley cup playoff  runs and featured a future hall of famer.
pittsburgh's state senators include jim ferlo (38th district), wayne d. fontana (42), and jay costa (43).
crawfords historic football: allegheny · athletic · duquesne · homestead · stars · lyceum · americans · gladiators · maulers historic basketball: monticello · loendi · ironmen · rens · pipers · condors · piranhas · xplosion · phantoms historic hockey: a's · bankers · duquesne · keystones · lyceum · pirates (wphl) ·
since the afl-nfl merger in  1970 they have qualified for more playoff berths (25) and have played in (15)  and hosted (11) more conference championship games than any other nfl  franchise.
the region has hosted annual pga tour events such as the 84  lumber classic (2001–2006) at mystic rock, the pittsburgh open (1950s)  and thepittsburgh senior classic (1993–1998) and since 2010 the annual  mylan classic.
christopher briem, an economist at theuniversity of pittsburgh's university center for social and urban research, has noted that southwestern pennsylvania is "far more interconnected" with northeastern ohio than it is with the eastern half of pennsylvania, and that the industries of pittsburgh are primarily linked to ohioan cities such asyoungstown, akron, and cleveland, not to pennsylvanian cities such asallentown, scranton, or philadelphia.[122]
other professional football teams include thepittsburgh  power, an arena football team scheduled to begin play in the consol energy  center in april 2011, and are heirs to the pittsburgh gladiators who hosted  arenabowl i in the city, competing in two total.[136] professional women's  football team thepittsburgh passion has existed since 2002 plays its home games  atnewman stadium, and the city also boasted the ed debartolo owned pittsburgh  maulers featuring a heisman trophy winner in the mid-1980s.
pittsburgh hornets have been ranked top 20 in the nation for the last 7 years.
there are also specific pittsburgh genres, most notably both the fantasy, macabre and science fictiongenre popularized by film director george a. romero, television personalitybill cardille's chiller theatre,[90] film director and writerrusty cundieff[91] and makeup effects guru tom savini.[92]
the pittsburgh metro area is served by many local television and radio  stations.
since joining the big east conference in 1982, pitt has  regularly found a place among the top 25 ncaa teams, including a number one  ranking for several weeks in 2009, and has made thencaa men's basketball  tournament for the past nine seasons, reaching the elite eight ln 2009.
in 2000, us airways and its regional affiliates operated over 500  daily departures from pittsburgh to more than 110 destinations; by 2007 fewer  than 70 departures to 21 destinations remained.[164] however, in 2007, us  airways chose the city to house its new $25 million, 27,000 sq ft (2,500 m2),  600-employees-strongglobal flight operations center, consolidating its two  smaller (pre-merger) centers inphoenix, arizona and along i-376 in metro  pittsburgh.
following the passage of the pennsylvania film production tax credit in 2006, activity in pittsburgh's film industry rapidly accelerated, further diversifying the city and regional economy.[155] according to the pittsburgh film office, over 123 major motion pictures have been filmed, in whole or in part, in pittsburgh, includingthe mothman prophecies, wonder boys, dogma, hoffa, the silence of the lambs, and zack and miri make a porno.
independent  student-written university-based newspapers includethe
downtown pittsburgh is tight and compact, featuring many skyscrapers, nine of which top 500 ft (152 m).u.s. steel tower is the tallest at 841 ft (256 m).
most notable are thecarnegie library of pittsburgh and the university of  pittsburgh's university library system, which rank 9th-largest (public) and  18th largest (academic) in the nation, respectively.[151] [edit] media main articles: media in pittsburgh, list of films shot  in pittsburgh, and list of television shows shot in pittsburgh headquarters forkdka-tv and kdka (am) in gateway center.
the team claims two pre-world series titles in 1901  and 1902.
the nhl'spittsburgh pirates, who were the first pittsburgh pro team to don the "black and gold", made several stanley cup playoff runs and featured a future hall of famer.
climate data for pittsburgh (pittsburgh international airport), 1981–2010 normals
22 of the top 25 msas saw a depreciation of housing values during the same period.[42] pittsburgh's story of economic regeneration was the inspiration for presidentbarack obama to personally select pittsburgh as the host city for the 2009g-20 summit.[43]
theallegheny county sheriff handles the jail and court security as well as detective/investigatory functions for smaller municipalities.
the world's first artificial ice rink debuted in pittsburgh atschenley gardens in 1898 and was later improved at the duquesne gardens.
this city is not midwestern.
this sentiment culminated in pittsburgh being selected as thebirthplace of the national republican party, when the party held its first convention in february 1856.
in1933, william n. mcnair became the first democrat to be elected mayor.
robert  morris also plays games against duquesne and pitt.
expressways such as route 28 and  route 22 also carry traffic from downtown to the northeast and western suburbs,  respectively.
there were 143,739 households, out of which 21.9% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 31.2% were married couples living together, 16.5% had a female householder with no husband present, and 48.4% were non-families.
croonerperry como and pop singer christina aguilera are from pittsburgh suburbs.
a recent project, "rails  to trails", has converted miles of former railroads to recreational  trails, including apittsburgh-washington d.c. bike/walking trail.
the station has produced much original  content for pbs, includingmr.
natural gas is widely used in the area due to large reserves existing in  the region.
most significantly, thepittsburgh cultural trust is embarking on riverparc, a four-block mixed-use "green" community, featuring 700 residential units and multiple towers between 20 and 30 stories.
the  black-and-gold color scheme has since become widely associated with the city  and personified in its famousterrible towel.
natural gas is widely used in the area due to large reserves existing in the region.
much of her memoir an american childhood takes place in post-world war ii pittsburgh.
in 2002, it was estimated that pittsburgh ranked 22nd of 69 urban places in the u.s. in terms of number of residents 25 years or older who had completed a bachelor's degree, with 31% of such people having completed the degree.[67] the same study ranked pittsburgh 15th of the 69 places in terms of number of residents 25 years or older who have completed a high school degree, with a figure of 84.7%.[68] the largest law enforcement agency in the region is the pittsburgh police, with close to 1,000 sworn officers.
today, the genre continues through the parsec writers organization[93] and several local writer's workshops including write or die,[94] the pittsburgh southwrites,[95] and the pittsburgh worldwrights[96] founded by mary soon lee[97] and continued by protegeesbarton paul levenson, kenneth chiacchia, chris ferrier, robert l. nansel and the poetelizabeth humphreys penrose.
one analyst has noted that "that's both more jobs and a higher share of the region's total employment than the steel industry represented in the 1970s.
thesouth side's east carson street is one of the most vibrant areas of the city, packed with diverse shopping, ethnic eateries, pulsing nightlife and live music venues.
in pittsburghese, for example, one would say "the car needs washed" instead of "needs to be washed", "needs washing", or "needs a wash".
the carnegie museum of natural history has extensive dinosaur collections and anancient egypt wing.
chatham university, a liberal arts women's college with coeducational graduate  programs, is located in the nearby shadyside neighborhood, but also maintains a  400-acre (1.6 km2)
the staccato qualities of the pittsburgh dialect have been suggested to originate either from welsh or from eastern european immigrants.
despite being divided into four states and three census bureau—defined regions, this area functions as an interdependent economic region.[128] power of 32 asserts that "[t]he 32-county region has common challenges and opportunities in the global economy, but is larger than the scope of any one single political entity, authority, or organization",[129] and that "[t]he only thing we find at artificial boundaries are problems, not solutions.
"[28] pittsburgh is one of the few american cities to be spelled with an h at the end of aburg suffix.[29] while briefly named "pittsburg" from 1890 to 1911 following a declaration by the united states board on geographic names, the "pittsburgh" spelling was officially restored after a public campaign by the citizens of the city.[28] the area surrounding the headwaters of the ohio, was inhabited by the tribes of allegawis, adena, hopewell, delaware, jacobi, seneca, shawnee, and several settled groups of iroquois.[citation needed]
with thegreat depression of the  1930s, the pirates folded from financial pressures, but hockey survived with the pittsburgh hornets farm team from the 1930s to 1967.
the year 1794 saw the short-lived whiskey rebellion.
the american civil war boosted the city's economy with increased production of iron and armaments.
heinz field serves as the home field for both the steelers and pitt  panthers, as well as the title rounds of both the suburban and city high school  football championships.
in 1769, a survey was made of the land situated between the two rivers, called the "manor of pittsburgh".[34] both virginia and pennsylvania claimed the pittsburgh area during colonial times and would continue to do so until 1780 when both states agreed to extend themason-dixon line westward, placing pittsburgh in pennsylvania.
total precipitation is greatest in may and least is october, and the average annual precipitation is 37.9 inches (963 mm), yet, on average, december and january have the greatest number of days with precipitation.
the downtown area between the rivers is known as the golden triangle, and the site at the actual convergence, which is occupied bypoint state park, is referred to simply as "the point."
federally, pittsburgh is part of pennsylvania's 14th congressional district , represented bydemocrat mike doyle, elected in 1994.
several suburban turnpike spurs  along themonongahela river, the airport and near greensburg also help traffic  flow.
according to the united states census bureau, pittsburgh has a total area of 58.3 sq mi (151 km2), of which, 55.6 sq mi (144 km2) is land and 2.8 sq mi (7 km2) is water.
"[170] on december 13, 2010, the southwestern pennsylvania commission approved a  plan by governored rendell to allocate $45 million in temporary funding for the  port authority to help reduce the magnitude of these service cuts.[171]  ultimately, service was cut 15 percent effective march 27, 2011.[172] [edit] utilities further information: allegheny county sanitary
allegheny city merged with pittsburgh under great protest from its citizens.
robert morris university also fields a division i  college hockey team at thermu island sports center, and much like 100 years  ago, pittsburgh is a hotbed for semi-pro and amateur teams, with the success of  the penguins fanning interest in the sport.
the airport was the long  time major hub forus airways from the company's start in the 1940s until the  mid 2000's.
the pittsburgh pirates also hold the mlb record for most  consecutive losing seasons, not having won a majority of their games since the  end of their three year playoff streak in 1992.
westinghouse · meadowcroft · conservatory · zoo · observatory · aviary · cathedral of learning · science center · uss requin · heinz chapel · penn station · duquesne incline · mon incline · mellon institute · dippy national (city) ·
the siege was ended after colonel henry bouquet defeated the native forces in thebattle of bushy run just to the east of the forks.
other major companies headquartered in pittsburgh includegeneral nutrition center (gnc) and cnx gas (cxg), a subsidiary of consol energy.
combining that figure with all other hospital, outpatient clinic, and doctor's office positions, yields a count of 116,000 jobs, approximately 10% of the jobs in the region.
he notes that, conversely, the population centers of northeastern ohio are primarily connected with pittsburgh and only secondarily connected to the state capital ofcolumbus.
kayaking is  popular on the city's three rivers.
both companies offer "customer choice" programs in which residents  may choose alternative natural gas suppliers who work under an agreement to  provide natural gas in smaller service areas; these companies include dominion  peoples plus, direct energy services llc, and novec energy solutions.
given that forbes was a scotsman, it is possible that the intended pronunciation of the settlement was/ˈpɪtsbᵊrə/ (pits-brə or pits-bə-rə), similar to the pronunciation ofedinburgh.[22][23][24][25][26] it was incorporated as a borough in 1794 and chartered as a city in 1816.[27] pittsburgh was officially named with its present spelling on april 22, 1794, by an act of the pennsylvania department, stating, "be it enacted by the senate and house of representatives of the commonwealth of pennsylvania, in general assembly met, and it is hereby enacted by the authority of the same, that the said town of pittsburgh shall be, and the same is hereby, erected into a borough, which shall be called the borough of pittsburgh for ever.
"[133] pnc park hosted the all-star game in 2006.
theconsol energy center replaced the "igloo" in the  2010–2011 nhl season.
the ala also gaveallegheny county an 'f' grade for both high ozone days and high particle pollution days in the period of 2007–2009.
examples includepittsburgh irish and classical theatre, quantum theatre, the renaissance and baroque society of pittsburgh, and the early music ensemble chatham baroque.
several suburban private plane bases serve the region, the largest of these  includerostraver airport and pittsburgh-monroeville airport.
pittsburgh is home to a number of art galleries and centers including themiller gallery at carnegie mellon university, and the wood street galleries
the largest single employer in that industry is theuniversity of pittsburgh, with 10,700 employees.
the station has produced much original content for pbs, includingmr.
1.8% of the total population were hispanic or latino of any race.[64] the five largest white ethnic groups in the city of pittsburgh are german (19.7%),
in 1901, the u.s. steel corporation was formed, and by 1911 pittsburgh was thenation's eighth largest city, producing between a third and a half of the nation's steel.
39.4% of all households were made up of individuals and 13.7% had someone living alone who is 65 years of age or older.
hockey in pittsburgh has become increasingly popular on both the amateur and professional levels during the last few decades of the 20th century, and has had a regional fan base since the semi-propittsburgh keystones of the 1890s and the first decade of the 20th century.
theconsol energy center replaced the "igloo" in the 2010–2011 nhl season.
pittsburgh falls within the borders of appalachia as defined by the  appalachian regional commission.
the "crosstown" isi-579 allowing access to the heart of downtown, the liberty tunnels and the consol energy center.
in 1967, the nhl doubled its teams from six to twelve and the pittsburgh  penguins were born.
golf has deep roots in the area with the region boasting the oldest course  in continuous use in the nation:foxburg country club dating from 1887.
in july 1763, lordjeffrey amherst is claimed to have ordered the distribution of blankets inoculated with smallpox to the native americans surrounding the fort, although this claim is disputed.[33] in the 1768 treaty of fort stanwix, the descendants of william penn purchased from thesix nations western lands that included most of the present site of pittsburgh.
yunz], a blended form of "you ones", similar to "y'all" and "you all" in the south).
pittsburgh has a long tradition of jazz, blues and bluegrass music.
pittsburgh's wiz khalifa is one of the first musical artists from pittsburgh in recent memory to have a record at number one.
wqed 13 is the local pbs station in pittsburgh.
point park university, which  recently announced a major expansion of its downtown campus, is the youngest  university in the city and well known for its conservatory of performing arts  and its operation of the pittsburgh playhouse.
the projects are being  planned by the pennsylvania turnpike commission.[162] [edit] airports landside terminal at pittsburgh international
annual events continue during the winter months at area  ski resorts such asboyce park, seven springs and wisp as well as ice skating at  ppg place and north park.
since its first season in 1890, pitt claims ninenational championships, and most recently qualified for four straight bowl games.
these include: several neighborhoods on the edges of the city are less urban, featuring tree-lined streets, yards and garages giving a more characteristic suburban feel, while other aforementioned neighborhoods, such as oakland, the south side, the north side, and the golden triangle are characterized by a more diverse, urban feel.
in a 2011 ranking of 277 metropolitan areas in the united states, the american lung association ranked the pittsburgh metropolitan area as having the third-worst pollution by short-term particle pollution, as well as the seventh-worst pollution by year-round particle pollution and the 24th-worst ozone pollution.
before the city transitioned from an  industrial economy to a service economy, it was characterized as the  "northern urban industrial anchor of appalachia",[112]:167 a  designation which made it an anomaly compared to much of appalachia in the 20th  century, which was traditionally characterized as southern, rural, and  economically distressed.[112]:167
the title of the book is  intentionally provocative: "the paris of appalachia" some have called pittsburgh derisively,  because it's still the largest city along this gorgeous mountain chain that  needs a better press agent.
rogers' neighborhood, several national  geographic specials, and where in the world is carmen sandiego?[153] there are a wide variety of radio stations serving the pittsburgh market.
however, national economic turmoil combined with entrenched local  gop scandals by the 1930s brought to an end republican rule.
"[54] in 2008, the american lung association ranked the pittsburgh area as the nation's third most polluted metropolitan area, behind los angeles and bakersfield, ca.[55]
in the metro pittsburgh area live more than 200,000 croatian descendants.
prior to the civil war, pittsburgh was largely in opposition to slavery.
lawrenceville is a revitalizing rowhouse neighborhood popular with artists and designers, which is expected to benefit from the recent new construction of a new children's hospital.
the  steel plaza subway station.
briem argues that "in so many ways the state boundaries we think of as  important are no more than lines on a map."[122]
this sentiment culminated in pittsburgh being selected as thebirthplace of the  national republican party, when the party held its first convention in february  1856.
three non-commercial stations are run bycarnegie mellon university (wrct 88.3 fm), the university of pittsburgh (wpts 92.1 fm), and point park university (wppj 670 am).
i-70, i-79 and i-76 (the turnpike) roughly form a  triangular-shaped "beltway" with i-80 andi-68 within the city's media  market's northern and southern boundaries.
petersen events center, home  ofpittsburgh panthers basketball collegiate basketball's fanbase was fueled since the early 20th century by  thedukes of duquesne university and the panthers of the university of  pittsburgh.
the carnegie science center is technology oriented.
[ 113]:13 pittsburgh lies only a few dozen miles from the spot where the physical boundaries of three major regions of the united states converge ( 40°38′19.67″n 80°31′8.37″w / 40.6387972°n 80.5189917°w / 40.6387972; -80.5189917), namely the northeastern united states, themidwestern united states, and the southern united states,[118] and in straddling these boundaries, it borrows cultural influences from a variety of sources.[citation needed] joseph scarpaci, professor emeritus of geography at virginia tech, has described pittsburgh as having "one foot in the east…and the other in the midwest".[112]:1 in his 2009 book the paris of appalachia, pittsburgh post-gazette writer brian o'neill meditates on this aspect of pittsburgh's regional and cultural ambiguity.
both companies offer "customer choice" programs in which residents may choose alternative natural gas suppliers who work under an agreement to provide natural gas in smaller service areas; these companies include dominion peoples plus, direct energy services llc, and novec energy solutions.
the  oakmont country club of suburban oakmont has hosted more u.s. open  championships (eight) than any other course as well as twou.s. women's open  championships, threepga championships, and eight u.s. amateurs.
pitt, named after british secretary of statewilliam pitt the elder.
shady side academy, whose main campuses are located in fox chapel, has a junior high school in the neighborhood ofpoint breeze.
the unusual and eclecticbayernhof music museum is six miles (9 km) from downtown.
[edit] cultural while the city's status as an appalachian city is largely undisputed, the  city has been described as not belonging culturally to any of the major  "regions" of the united states such as themidwest or the east coast.
"[130] power of 32 is supported in  its efforts by "30 to 40 other foundations"[128] and funded by  several pittsburgh-area endowments including therichard king mellon foundation  and theheinz endowments.[128] [edit] sports main article: sports in pittsburgh several teams are followed widely in the pittsburgh area, which sporting  news named the "best sports city" in the united states in 2009.[131]  besides major pro teams in baseball, football and hockey, the university of  pittsburgh's football and basketball teams have large fanbases.
soccer in pittsburgh is represented by the pittsburgh riverhounds, a professional soccer team playing in the second division of theunited soccer leagues (usl).
a first division team until 2004, the riverhounds reached the  2001 us open cup quarterfinals after beating the colorado rapids of the major  league soccer.
in addition, the pittsburgh pirates were the first major league team to field an all-nonwhite lineup in 1971.
consol energy center,  current home of thepittsburgh penguins (first opened for the 2010–2011  nhl season).
"[170] on december 13, 2010, the southwestern pennsylvania commission approved a plan by governored rendell to allocate $45 million in temporary funding for the port authority to help reduce the magnitude of these service cuts.[171] ultimately, service was cut 15 percent effective march 27, 2011.[172] the city is served by duquesne light, one of the original power companies founded in 1912 bygeorge westinghouse.
in its post-industrial state, pittsburgh has  now been characterized as the "paris of appalachia",[113][114][115]
the downturn of the steel industry left no steel mills within the city of pittsburgh and only two remaining mills in the county,[14][ note 1] though more than 300 steel-related businesses remain in the area.[15]
over 2,000  bridges span the landscape of allegheny county.[160] [edit] expressways locals refer to the interstates fanning out from downtown pittsburgh as the  "parkways.
the city is served by pittsburgh international airport (iata: pit)
bloomfield is pittsburgh's little italy and is known for its italian restaurants and grocers.
pittsburgh has since adapted to the collapse of the region's steel industry.
in stark contrast to the romero-savini type product, pittsburgh's position as the birthplace for community owned television and networked commercial television helped spawn the modern children's show genres exemplified by mister rogers' neighborhood, where in the world is carmen sandiego?, happy's party, cappelli & company and the children's corner , all nationally broadcast.
the pitt panthers won two pre-tournament erahelms athletic foundation national championships in 1928 and 1930, competed in a "national title game" againstlsu in 1935, and made a final four appearance in 1941.
[edit] other sports pittsburgh also hosts several annual major sporting events, including the  pittsburgh marathon and the great race 10k, the pittsburgh vintage grand prix  in motorsports, and with abundant rivers both thehead of the ohio regatta and  thethree rivers regatta.
pittsburgh is the birthplace of gertrude stein and rachel carson, a chatham college (nowchatham university) graduate from the pittsburgh suburb of springdale, pennsylvania.[87] modern writers include pulitzer prize-winning playwrightaugust wilson and michael chabon with his pittsburgh-focused commentary on student and college life.
by 1797, glass began to be manufactured in the city as the population grew to around 1400.
a recent project, "rails to trails", has converted miles of former railroads to recreational trails, including apittsburgh-washington d.c. bike/walking trail.
the service cut would reduce total service hours by approximately 35 percent, including the elimination of 45 routes.[167] the port authority's budget from the state is to be substantially reduced for 2011, and as chairperson joan ellenbogen noted, the port authority is legally required to adopt a balanced budget.[169] chairperson guy mattola stated that "unfortunately, we are now at the point that all options have been exhausted ...
the dialect has some tonal similarities to other nearby regional dialects (e.g., erie, baltimore), but is noted for its somewhatstaccato rhythms.
the  team won foursuper bowls in a six-year span in the 1970s, a fifth super bowl in  2006, and a league recordsixth super bowl in 2009.
the city has amtrak intercity rail service via the capitol limited and thepennsylvanian at pennsylvania station, also known as union station.
robert morris university colonials  colonials basketball colonials hockey sewall center island sports center northeast conference aha conference (hockey) pittsburgh's dedication to sports has a long history.
wbgn 59 is an independent station owned and operated by the bruno-goodworth network.
the southern "entrance" to downtown is through thefort
pittsburgh has multiple mountain biking areas close to the city in area parks and in the surrounding suburbs.
the pirates played in the first  world's series in 1903, losing to the boston americans, but won in 1909, 1925,  1960, 1971, as well as in their most recent world series appearance against the  baltimore orioles in 1979.
other area courses such aslaurel valley golf club and the pittsburgh field club have hosted pga championships, theryder cup, lpga championships and senior pga championships.
the members of the city council are: darlene harris (1), theresa kail-smith (2),bruce kraus (3), natalia rudiak (4), douglas shields (5), r. daniel lavelle (6),patrick dowd (7), bill peduto (8), and rev. ricky burgess (9).[140] the president of city council is darlene harris, who was elected to the position on january 4, 2010.[141] pittsburgh is represented in the pennsylvania general assembly by three senate districts and nine house districts.
the  "crosstown" isi-579 allowing access to the heart of downtown, the  liberty tunnels and the consol energy center.
golf has deep roots in the area with the region boasting the oldest course in continuous use in the nation:foxburg country club dating from 1887.
clemente · cliffside · curto · firstside · frick · grand view ·
point park university, which recently announced a major expansion of its downtown campus, is the youngest university in the city and well known for its conservatory of performing arts and its operation of the pittsburgh playhouse.
representatives in thepennsylvania house of representatives include jake wheatley (19th district), don walko (20), dominic costa (21), chelsa wagner (22), dan frankel (23),joseph preston, jr. (24), dan deasy (27), paul costa (34), and harry readshaw (36).
commercial service is also available at suburban arnold palmer regional airport in the borough of latrobe via spirit airlines and formerly delta air lines and us airways commuter service.
oakland, heavily populated by undergraduate and graduate students, is home to most of the universities,schenley park and the petersen events center.
from 1967 until 2010 they played their home games at one of the nhl's oldest venues, and the first retractable domed stadium in the world, civic arena, or in local parlance "the igloo".
summers are hot and humid (with occasional heatwaves), while winters are cold and snowy.
the pirates are nine-time national league pennant  winners and five-timeworld series champions.
this was followed by european pioneers, primarily dutch, in the early 16th century.
tech also identify the region between cleveland and pittsburgh as being an  interconnected "megapolitan area" and refer to it as the "steel  corridor".[127] the scope of pittsburgh's metropolitan influence on the surrounding area is  of more than just academic interest.
the steelers are more than a sports team to the region and itsdiaspora; many have noted that news of the team has preempted media coverage of elections and other major events.
it was established on april  1, 1954, and was the first community-sponsored television station and the fifth  public station in the united states.
robert morris university is based  in the suburb ofmoon township, pennsylvania and maintains a satellite center in  downtown pittsburgh.
the city has amtrak intercity rail service via the capitol limited and thepennsylvanian at pennsylvania station, also known as union  station.
sometimes we're so afraid of what others think, we're afraid to say who we are.
the pittsburgh pirates also hold the mlb record for most consecutive losing seasons, not having won a majority of their games since the end of their three year playoff streak in 1992.
he notes that,  conversely, the population centers of northeastern ohio are primarily connected  with pittsburgh and only secondarily connected to the state capital ofcolumbus.
revenues of nearly $34 million are generated through local and state tax.
pittsburgh is known colloquially as "the city of bridges" and "the steel city" for its many bridges and former steel manufacturing base.
british general edward braddock's campaign (with washington as his aide) to take fort duquesne failed, butgeneral john forbes's subsequent campaign succeeded.
it is also home to point park university, the art institute of pittsburgh, pittsburgh culinary institute, a robert morris university branch campus and duquesne university which is located on the border of downtown and uptown.
robert morris  and duquesne provide division i basketball as well and nearby penn state and  west virginia university have a number of fans in the pittsburgh region.
three non-commercial  stations are run bycarnegie mellon university (wrct 88.3 fm), the university of  pittsburgh (wpts 92.1 fm), and point park university (wppj 670 am).
"[99] the lexicon itself contains notable loans frompolish and other slavic and european languages; examples includebabushka, pierogi, and halušky.[100] pittsburgh often places high in lists of the nation's most livable cities.
pitt and duquesne play a heated inter-city rivalry,  termed "the city game", each season.
overall, the "violent crime" rate for the city was about twice the national average, while the "property" or non-violent crime rate was about 1.11 times (on par with) the national average.
pitt and duquesne play a heated inter-city rivalry, termed "the city game", each season.
a planned highway system called the mon-fayette/southern beltway project  would allow access from the south and southwest of the city via a  limited-access tolled expressway system.[161] the projects are in the planning  stages with some sections already open to traffic.
common pittsburghese terms are: slippy (slippery), redd up (clean up), and gum bands (rubber bands).
duquesne, carnegie mellon university andwashington & jefferson college all posted major bowl games and ap poll rankings from the 1920s to the 1940s as that era's equivalent of top 25 fbs programs.
pittsburgh is also represented by the steel city derby demons, a roller derby team of the women's flat track derby association.
by 1857, pittsburgh's 1,000 factories were consuming 22,000,000 bushels of coal yearly.
it's just pittsburgh, and  there's no place like it.
the oakmont country club of suburban oakmont has hosted more u.s. open championships (eight) than any other course as well as twou.s. women's open championships, threepga championships, and eight u.s. amateurs.
that's both its blessing and its curse.[113]:13 pittsburgh is in the rust belt.[119] despite the fact that the city lies far outside of thegreat lakes basin and about 120 miles (190 km) from lake erie , it has representation in the great lakes metro chamber coalition,[120] and the "america 2050" organization claims that pittsburgh is one of the "principal cities" of thegreat lakes megalopolis.[121] pittsburgh's association with the great lakes region is due in part to its economic connections to great lakes cities likecleveland.
denied the request, leading to a gap in the state transportation budget of $472  million.[168] on november 24, 2010, the port authority's board of directors approved a  massive service cut and fare hike to go into effect in march 2011.
the first waskdka 1020 am, also the world's first commercially licensed radio station, airing on november 2, 1920.[154] other popular stations include kqv 1410 am (news),wbgg 970 am (sports), kdka-fm 93.7 fm (sports), wkst-fm 96.1 fm (pop and hip-hop),wbzz 100.7 fm (adult contemporary), wdve 102.5 fm (album rock),wpgb 104.7 fm (talk), and wxdx 105.9 fm (modern rock).
the first waskdka 1020 am, also the world's first commercially licensed radio  station, airing on november 2, 1920.[154] other popular stations include kqv  1410 am (news),wbgg 970 am (sports), kdka-fm 93.7 fm (sports), wkst-fm 96.1 fm  (pop and hip-hop),wbzz 100.7 fm (adult contemporary), wdve 102.5 fm (album  rock),wpgb 104.7 fm (talk), and wxdx 105.9 fm (modern rock).
pittsburgh riverhounds usl soccer  new riverhounds stadium 1999 pittsburgh passion iwfl american football
there are also smaller airports located near the city used primarily for corporate jets and other private aircraft:rock airport is northeast of pittsburgh near the borough oftarentum and pittsburgh-monroeville airport is east of the city in monroeville.
in the period between 2006 and 2011, the pittsburghmsa experienced over 10% appreciation in housing prices—the highest appreciation out of the largest 25 msas in the united states.
males had a median income of $32,128 versus $25,500 for females.
pittsburgh also hosts several annual major sporting events, including the pittsburgh marathon and the great race 10k, the pittsburgh vintage grand prix in motorsports, and with abundant rivers both thehead of the ohio regatta and thethree rivers regatta.
for example,google operates an office in a former nabisco factory, a complex known as bakery square.[73] some of the factory's original equipment, such as a large dough mixer, were left standing in homage to the site's industrial roots.[74] pittsburgh's generally successful shift away from its industrial past has led to it being characterized as "the poster child for managing industrial transition".[75] pittsburgh has grown its economic base in recent years to include technology, retail, finance, education, and medicine.
in its post-industrial state, pittsburgh has now been characterized as the "paris of appalachia",[113][114][115][ 116][117] recognizing the city's cultural resources such as the carnegie museums of pittsburgh, the pittsburgh symphony, and the pittsburgh opera, as well as its service economy built upon education, healthcare, and technology.
there  are also smaller airports located near the city used primarily for corporate  jets and other private aircraft:rock airport is northeast of pittsburgh near  the borough oftarentum and pittsburgh-monroeville airport is east of the city in monroeville.
pittsburgh is also  represented by the nationaldodgeball league and the pittsburgh punishers.
located inmoon township close to the pittsburgh international airport, the team has made the ncaa tournament every decade since the 1980s, including in 2010, while posting several conference titles.
it is packed with theaters and arts venues, and is seeing a growing residential segment.
the pittsburgh hornets, pittsburgh junior penguins, pittsburgh predators, and the pittsburgh viper stars are tier 1 aaa teams in the city of pittsburgh.
i've long felt we should embrace that title, though few are with me.
[edit] education see also: list of colleges and universities in  pittsburgh university of pittsburgh carnegie mellon  university the city of pittsburgh is home to many colleges, universities and research  facilities, the most well-known of which arecarnegie mellon university,  duquesne university, and the university of pittsburgh.
the state legislature assumed it would receive permission to convert interstate 80 into a toll road to increase revenues, but the federal government denied the request, leading to a gap in the state transportation budget of $472 million.[168] on november 24, 2010, the port authority's board of directors approved a massive service cut and fare hike to go into effect in march 2011.
by the 1840s, pittsburgh was one of the largest cities west of theallegheny mountains.
enhancements to allow for highspeed rail transit connections to philadelphia  and thenortheast corridor are underway as part of the american recovery and  reinvestment act of 2009.
chatham university, a liberal arts women's college with coeducational graduate programs, is located in the nearby shadyside neighborhood, but also maintains a 400-acre (1.6 km2)
the steelers have been owned by therooney family since the team's  founding in 1933, show consistency in coaching (only three coaches since the  1960s all with the same basic philosophy) and are noted as one of sports' most  respectable franchises on and off the field.
it's alive show and by holding the annual "zombie fest".
duquesne university, a private catholic university, is located in the bluff neighborhood of pittsburgh and is noted for its song and dance company, thetamburitzans, as well as programs in law, business, and pharmacy.
duquesne  university, a private catholic university, is located in the bluff neighborhood  of pittsburgh and is noted for its song and dance company, thetamburitzans, as  well as programs in law, business, and pharmacy.
pittsburgh sits at the boundary between the northeast, the midwest, and  the south.
steel production began by 1875, whenandrew carnegie founded theedgar thomson steel works in north braddock, which eventually evolved into thecarnegie steel company.
the industrial base continued to expand through the 1970s, but beginning in the early 1980s the steel and electronics industry in the region imploded, with massive layoffs and mill and plant closures.[39][40][41] beginning in the late 1980s, the city shifted its economic base to education, tourism, and services, largely based on healthcare/medicine, finance and high technology such as robotics.
this led to the prominence of african-american singers likeleontyne price in the world of opera.
it is necessary to move forward  with this service reduction plan recognizing the devastating consequences for  riders and non-riders alike.
the firstside portion of downtown borders the monongahela river and the historic mon wharf.
the rivers casino is located in the north shore neighborhood immediately west of carnegie science center and heinz field.
around 40 bridges cross the three rivers near  the city.
between 2007 and 2010, the port authority cut its annual expenses by $52  million and raised its revenues by $14 million to help alleviate a statewide  transportation funding crisis.[167] the funding crisis only grew worse,  however.
the median income for a household in the city was $28,588, and the median income for a family was $38,795.
pittsburgh is also represented by the nationaldodgeball league and the pittsburgh punishers.
as of 2007, the total annual payroll of the region's technology industries, when taken in aggregate, exceeded $10.8 billion,[72] and as of 2010, there were 1,600 technology companies.[4]
the neighborhoods of shadyside andsquirrel hill are large, wealthy neighborhoods featuring large shopping/business districts.
commercial service is also available at suburban arnold palmer regional  airport in the borough of latrobe via spirit airlines and formerly delta air  lines and us airways commuter service.
heinz field serves as the home field for both the steelers and pitt panthers, as well as the title rounds of both the suburban and city high school football championships.
two-time pultizer prize winner and recipient of thepresidential medal of freedom, david mccullough was born and raised in pittsburgh.[88] annie dillard, a pultizer prize winning writer, was born and raised in pittsburgh.
[77] pittsburgh still maintains its status as a corporate headquarters city, with eightfortune 500 companies calling the city home.
a first division team until 2004, the riverhounds reached the 2001 us open cup quarterfinals after beating the colorado rapids of the major league soccer.
snowfall averages 40.3 inches (102 cm) per season.
the north side is also home to allegheny general hospital, listed among the 1999 us news & world report 2000 best hospitals nationwide.
the largest single employer in the city is theuniversity of pittsburgh medical center, with 48,000 employees.
the value of homes in the south side has increased in value by about 10% annually[citation needed] for the past 10 years.
the city also has an extensive library system, both public and university.
the number of pro-grade ice rinks have increased in the region such as therostraver ice garden and iceoplex at southpointe, and several native pittsburgh players have entered the nhl recently citing the success of pens in the late 1980s and 1990s as spurring their interest in the sport.
in 2000, us airways and its regional affiliates operated over 500 daily departures from pittsburgh to more than 110 destinations; by 2007 fewer than 70 departures to 21 destinations remained.[164] however, in 2007, us airways chose the city to house its new $25 million, 27,000 sq ft (2,500 m2), 600-employees-strongglobal flight operations center, consolidating its two smaller (pre-merger) centers inphoenix, arizona and along i-376 in metro pittsburgh.
the pirates are nine-time national league pennant winners and five-timeworld series champions.
the panhandle bridge carries the port authority's blue/red/brown subway lines across themonongahela river.
all of its major  professional sports teams—thesteelers of the national football league, the penguins of the national hockey league, and the pirates of major league baseball [132]—share the same team colors, the official city colors of black and  gold.
in terms of cloudiness, there is an average of 59 clear days and 103 partly cloudy days per year, while 203 days are cloudy.[47]
17 miles (27 km) to the west infindlay township.[163]
pitt is ranked as the 19th national public  university by us news & world report and 57th overall, and is known  for its programs in philosophy,international studies, information science,  engineering, business, law, medicine, and other biomedical and health-related  sciences.[144][147][148][149][150] carlow university is a small private roman  catholic university that while coeducational, has traditionally educated women.
in the 1830s, manywelsh people from the steelworks of merthyr migrated to the city following the civil strife and aftermath of themerthyr riots of 1831.
in addition, average rent for all bedrooms in pittsburgh was $789 at the end of the first quarter of 2010.
[edit] sister cities pittsburgh has seventeen sister cities:[174][175]
that's both its blessing and its curse.[113]:13 [edit] economic pittsburgh is in the rust belt.[119] despite the fact that the city lies  far outside of thegreat lakes basin and about 120 miles (190 km) from lake erie , it has representation in the great lakes metro chamber coalition,[120] and  the "america 2050" organization claims that pittsburgh is one of the  "principal cities" of thegreat lakes megalopolis.[121] pittsburgh's association with the great lakes region is due in part to its  economic connections to great lakes cities likecleveland.
over 2,000 bridges span the landscape of allegheny county.[160] locals refer to the interstates fanning out from downtown pittsburgh as the "parkways.
please update this section to reflect recent events or newly  available information, and remove this template when finished.
private schools in pittsburgh include north catholic high school, bishop canevin high school, seton-la salle catholic high school, central catholic high school, oakland catholic high school, winchester thurston school, and the ellis school.
these four surrounding areas are further subdivided into distinct neighborhoods (in total, pittsburgh contains 90 neighborhoods.[58])
all the teams have been in the top 50 rankings  in the nation.
for every 100 females there were 90.7 males.
it was established on april 1, 1954, and was the first community-sponsored television station and the fifth public station in the united states.
art deco style allegheny county airport (agc) handles 139,000 general aviation flights a year, and is located south of the city inwest mifflin.
residents living in extremely low-lying areas near the three rivers or near one of the 1,400 creeks and streams of the region experience occasional floods,[108] such as those caused when the remnants ofhurricane ivan dumped record rainfalls on the region in 2004.[109]
the world's first artificial ice rink  debuted in pittsburgh atschenley gardens in 1898 and was later improved at the  duquesne gardens.
main article: transportation in pittsburgh pittsburgh is a city of bridges with a total of 446.[13] pittsburgh has  three bridges more thanvenice, italy, which has historically held the title  "city of bridges.
as a result, pittsburgh is rich in art and culture.
poetsamuel john hazo, the first poet laureate of the commonwealth of pennsylvania, also resides in the city.
the pittsburgh metro area is served by many local television and radio stations.
at least fifteen of pittsburgh's bridges  are visible in this aerial photo.
john edgar wideman grew up in pittsburgh and based "brothers and keepers," a nation book critics awarded novel in his hometown.
the pens are owned by hall of famermario lemieux, a back-to-back playoffs mvp for the pens from 1984 to 2006.
hamilton, ontario, canada
after placing fourth and first in the first two editions ofplaces rated almanac, pittsburgh finished third in 1989, fifth in 1993, 14th in 1997 and 12th in 2000, before reclaiming the number one spot in 2007.[19]
the pittsburgh english dialect, commonly called pittsburghese, was influenced byscots-irish, welsh, german, central european and eastern european immigrants.
mark menold[98] showcases the classic pittsburgh zombie tradition through cinematic and televised works onthe
pitt is ranked as the 19th national public university by us news & world report and 57th overall, and is known for its programs in philosophy,international studies, information science, engineering, business, law, medicine, and other biomedical and health-related sciences.[144][147][148][149][150] carlow university is a small private roman catholic university that while coeducational, has traditionally educated women.
currently, the largest promotions at the airport is the expansion  of other airlines, particularlydelta air lines' new direct trans-atlantic  service to paris as well asjetblue and southwest airlines rapid expansion at  the complex.
from the east end neighborhood of point breeze is the hip-hop artistmac miller who recently had his debut album blue slide park reach number 1 on the billboard's album chart; the first independent artist to do this sincesnoop dogg in 1995.
the university of pittsburgh, established in 1787 and popularly referred to as "pitt", is astate-related school with one of the country's largest research programs.[145][146]
christopher briem, an  economist at theuniversity of pittsburgh's university center for social and  urban research, has noted that southwestern pennsylvania is "far more  interconnected" with northeastern ohio than it is with the eastern half of  pennsylvania, and that the industries of pittsburgh are primarily linked to  ohioan cities such asyoungstown, akron, and cleveland, not to pennsylvanian  cities such asallentown, scranton, or philadelphia.[122]
thetom cruise film all the right moves and espn's documentarybound for glory with dick butkus, both filmed in the region, capture the tradition and passion of high school football in thepittsburgh tri-state.
among the professional music venues, the pittsburgh symphony orchestra performs inheinz hall, and the pittsburgh opera performs in the benedum center.
also located in the city  arecarlow university, chatham university, point park university, the art  institute of pittsburgh, and a branch campus of suburban robert morris  university as well as the community college of allegheny county, the  pennsylvania culinary institute, and the pittsburgh institute of mortuary  science.
a planned highway system called the mon-fayette/southern beltway project would allow access from the south and southwest of the city via a limited-access tolled expressway system.[161] the projects are in the planning stages with some sections already open to traffic.
the city is headquarters to major global financial institutions pnc financial services (the nation's fifth-largest bank), federated investors and the regional headquarters ofbny mellon, descended from mellon financial and the mellon family.
the names of more than a quarter of pittsburgh's neighborhoods make reference to "hills," "heights," or other indicators of topographical complexity.[note 3] this topography is often used for physical activity.
robert morris university also fields a division i college hockey team at thermu island sports center, and much like 100 years ago, pittsburgh is a hotbed for semi-pro and amateur teams, with the success of the penguins fanning interest in the sport.
expressways such as route 28 and route 22 also carry traffic from downtown to the northeast and western suburbs, respectively.
the south side was once an area composed primarily of dense inexpensive housing for mill workers, but has in recent years become a local pittsburgher destination.
pittsburgh museums include the andy warhol museum, the carnegie museum of art, the frick art & historical center, pittsburgh center for the arts and themattress factory.
the franchise qualified for the finals seven times and hoisted championship banners three times (1952, 1955, 1967); all in an era where only the "original six" were in the nhl and "farm team" talent (especiallycalder cup champions) exceeded the level on most modern day nhl playoff teams.
the region has hosted annual pga tour events such as the 84 lumber classic (2001–2006) at mystic rock, the pittsburgh open (1950s) and thepittsburgh senior classic (1993–1998) and since 2010 the annual mylan classic.
pittsburgh ems provides emergency medical, heavy rescue and river rescue services to the city.
between 2007 and 2010, the port authority cut its annual expenses by $52 million and raised its revenues by $14 million to help alleviate a statewide transportation funding crisis.[167] the funding crisis only grew worse, however.
what is known today as pittsburgh's north side was once known as allegheny city and operated as a city independently of pittsburgh.
it is necessary to move forward with this service reduction plan recognizing the devastating consequences for riders and non-riders alike.
located inmoon township close to the pittsburgh  international airport, the team has made the ncaa tournament every decade since  the 1980s, including in 2010, while posting several conference titles.
the success and growth of carnegie steel was attributed tohenry bessemer, inventor of the bessemer process.
a great fire burned over a thousand buildings in 1845, but the city rebuilt.
the most popular team in the city is the nfl's pittsburgh steelers.
for example, the organization "power of 32" focuses on addressing the issues of the 32-county metropolitan area roughly centered on pittsburgh—a region which includes portions of pennsylvania, ohio, west virginia, and maryland.
the city features 151 high-rise buildings,[12] 446 bridges,[13] two inclined railways, and a pre-revolutionary fortification.
by 1815, pittsburgh was producing significant quantities of iron, brass, tin and glass products.
national (county) · state · city · phlf · cultural art · arts · arts festival · fort pitt & blockhouse · clayton · clemente · children's · frick · history · jazz · jewish · medical · mendelson · miller · mf · nationality rooms · national map · natural history · soliders & sailors · warhol wilson · wsg · heinz hall · benedum · byham · harris · o'reilly · foster · playhouse · trib · hunt · stage ae · syria mosque casino · gateway clipper · station square · strip · downtown · oakland · south side macy's · market square · southside works · waterworks · mount washington · east liberty · squirrel hill · shadyside · walnut street opera · ballet · symphony · brass · dance · light opera · public theater · playwrights · bricolage university of pittsburgh · carnegie mellon university · duquesne university · robert morris university · chatham university · point park university · carlow university · westpenn-allegheny school of medicineart institute · byzantine catholic seminary · pittsburgh theological seminary · community college ‡this populated place also has portions in an adjacent county or counties
robert morris also plays games against duquesne and pitt.
eden hall farm campus located in the north hills.
however, national economic turmoil combined with entrenched local gop scandals by the 1930s brought to an end republican rule.
for example, the organization "power  of 32" focuses on addressing the issues of the 32-county metropolitan area  roughly centered on pittsburgh—a region which includes portions of  pennsylvania, ohio, west virginia, and maryland.
while serving only a  portion of the pittsburgh area's 20th-largest metro area, it is the  11th-largest transit agency in the nation.
the pittsburgh pirates baseball team, often referred to as the bucs or  sometimes the buccos (derived frombuccaneer), is the city's oldest professional  sports franchise having been founded in 1882, and plays in thecentral division  of thenational league.
the pirates played in the first world's series in 1903, losing to the boston americans, but won in 1909, 1925, 1960, 1971, as well as in their most recent world series appearance against the baltimore orioles in 1979.
in recognizing their  economic interdependence, briem has popularized the term "cleveburgh"  to refer collectively to the cities of cleveland and pittsburgh, along with the  smaller towns dotting the corridor ofi-76 between the cities.[122][123][124][125 ][126] robert lang and arthur nelson of the metropolitan institute at virginia
2.3% of pittsburgh's population was of hispanic, latino, or spanish origin (they may be of any race).[62] as of the census of 2000,[63] there were 334,563 people, 143,739 households, and 74,169 families residing in the city.
the state legislature assumed it would receive permission to convert interstate 80 into a toll road to increase revenues, but the federal government
polka, folk, square and round dancing have a long history in the city and are celebrated by the internationally famousduquesne university tamburitzans, a multicultural academy dedicated to the preservation and presentation of folk songs and dance.
the campuses of carlow university, carnegie mellon university, and the university of pittsburgh are located adjacent to each other in the oakland neighborhood that is the traditional cultural and education center of the city.
around 40 bridges cross the three rivers near the city.
theatre has existed professionally in pittsburgh since the early 1800s.
mayor · council · events · intergov · police · d.a. · sheriff · fire · libraries · transit · education · port · regional university of pittsburgh medical center · giant eagle · westpenn allegheny health · university of pittsburgh · pnc financial · bny mellon · fedex ground · eat'n park · excela health · highmark · u.s. steel · carnegie mellon · westinghouse · allegheny technologies · bayer usa · us airways · consol energy · edmc · ppg · siemens · dick's sporting goods · allegheny energy · duquesne university · 1st commonwealth financial · ak steel · h.j. heinz · wesco · guru.com · gnc · american eagle outfitters · alcoa · koppers · federated investors · vivisimo · american bridge · ampco · rti metals · steelers (nfl) · penguins (nhl) · pirates (mlb) · power (afl) · force · passion · renegades · riverhounds · bandits · sledgehammers collegiate division i:
the franchise qualified  for the finals seven times and hoisted championship banners three times (1952,  1955, 1967); all in an era where only the "original six" were in the  nhl and "farm team" talent (especiallycalder cup champions) exceeded  the level on most modern day nhl playoff teams.
in 2009, forbes ranked pittsburgh as having the 2nd-lowest natural disaster risk in the nation compared to other cities.[70] greater pittsburgh is not entirely free of natural disasters, however.
downtown is serviced by theport
one sportswriter claimed, "no city is more synonymous with black baseball than pittsburgh.
[edit] funding crisis of 2010–12 this section may need  to be updated.
all the teams have been in the top 50 rankings in the nation.
the team claims two pre-world series titles in 1901 and 1902.
both the benedum center and heinz hall provide venues for other groups, such as theriver city brass band and the pittsburgh youth symphony orchestra.
port authority runs a network of intracity and intercity bus routes, themonongahela incline funicular railway (more commonly known as an "incline") on mount washington, alight rail system that runs mostly above-ground in the suburbs and underground as a subway in the city, and one of the nation's largestbusway systems.[165] the duquesne incline is operated by a non-profit preservation trust,[166] but it does accept port authority passes and charge standard port authority tolls.
pittsburgh  also has a rich history innegro league baseball teams with the former  pittsburgh crawfords and the homestead grays credited with as many as 14 league  titles and 11 hall of famers between them.
the penguins have won four eastern conference championships (1991, 1992, 2008, and 2009) and threestanley cup championships in 1991, 1992, and 2009.
this area is home to the distinctiveppg place gothic glass skyscraper complex.
this compares to the nationwide average of $1087.[107] another factor enhancing pittsburgh's livability is that area residents face very little risk of encountering a natural disaster such as an earthquake, hurricane, wildfire, or tornado.
anespn.com  feature remarked that "[t]his is the perfect blend of location, history,  design, comfort and baseball…the best stadium in baseball is in  pittsburgh.
st. vincent summer theatre, off the wall productions, mountain playhouse, the theatre factory, and stage right!
pittsburgh steelers nfl american football  heinz field 1933 1974, 1975, 1978, 1979, 2005, 2008 pittsburgh penguins nhl ice hockey consol energy center 1967 1991, 1992, 2009 pittsburgh power afl  arena football consol energy center 2011
pittsburgh became "gotham city" in 2011 during filming ofthe dark knight rises.[156][157] horror director george a. romero, a pittsburgh native, has shot nearly all of his films in and around pittsburgh, including the majority of hisliving dead series.
in recognizing their economic interdependence, briem has popularized the term "cleveburgh" to refer collectively to the cities of cleveland and pittsburgh, along with the smaller towns dotting the corridor ofi-76 between the cities.[122][123][124][125 ][126] robert lang and arthur nelson of the metropolitan institute at virginia tech also identify the region between cleveland and pittsburgh as being an interconnected "megapolitan area" and refer to it as the "steel corridor".[127] the scope of pittsburgh's metropolitan influence on the surrounding area is of more than just academic interest.
pitt tunnel and over the fort pitt bridge.
pittsburgh is home to one of the several licensed casinos in the state.
the pirates play inpnc park, which is annually ranked as one of the most beautiful major league baseball parks because of its location on the banks of the allegheny river and the view of the pittsburgh skyline.
water utility service is provided by the pittsburgh water and sewer authority[173] and pennsylvania american water.
thenorth side is primarily composed of residential neighborhoods and is noteworthy for well-constructed and architecturally interesting homes.
during the 1940s to the 1970s, duquesne was the city's most  successful men's college basketball program.
the senator john heinz pittsburgh regional history center and western pennsylvania sports museum are located in the strip district.
the pittsburghdesignated market area (dma) is the 22nd largest in the  u.s. with 1,163,150 homes (1.045% of the total u.s.).[152] the major network  television affiliates arekdka-tv 2 (cbs), wtae 4 (abc), wpxi 11 (nbc), wpgh-tv  53 (fox), wpcw 19 (cw), winp-tv 16 (ion), wpmy 22 (mynetworktv), and wpcb 40 ( cornerstone).
the panhandle bridge carries the port  authority's blue/red/brown subway lines across themonongahela river.
[ 21] pittsburgh was named in 1758 by general john forbes in honor of the british statesmanwilliam pitt.
while serving only a portion of the pittsburgh area's 20th-largest metro area, it is the 11th-largest transit agency in the nation.
many of the city's neighborhoods are steeply sloped, with two-lane roads.
his anthem " black and yellow" (which is itself a tribute pittsburgh; black and yellow being the colours of the city's flag) reached number one on billboard's "hot 100"[84] for the week of february 19, 2011[85] not since grammy-winning[86] blues guitarist george benson, has a pittsburgh musical artist received such national acclaim.
in addition, the pittsburgh pirates  were the first major league team to field an all-nonwhite lineup in 1971.
currentfreight railroads include csx and norfolk southern.
several tried to talk me out of slapping it on the cover, but  were we called "the paris of the rockies," we wouldn't run from it.
university, with wvu considered part of the media market.
the service  cut would reduce total service hours by approximately 35 percent, including the  elimination of 45 routes.[167] the port authority's budget from the state is to  be substantially reduced for 2011, and as chairperson joan ellenbogen noted,  the port authority is legally required to adopt a balanced budget.[169]  chairperson guy mattola stated that "unfortunately, we are now at the  point that all options have been exhausted ...
in september 2004, the remnants ofhurricane ivan brought gusty winds and dropped nearly 6 inches (150 mm) of rain in 12 hours.
by april 2008, the city and allegheny county were discussing a plan to merge as early as 2009 in the interests of consolidating government and enhancing the status of the region.[142] if approved, the city of pittsburgh would annex all of surrounding allegheny county in a metropolitan government, and the population would stand at 1.2 million, making pittsburgh the 10th largest city in the united states.[143] however, opposition to this plan is concerned of added bureaucracy of proposed "big government", inefficiencies and possible corruption will be extended to the newly annexed communities resulting in a loss of services and an increase in taxes due to higher debt service costs of the city.
palumbo center art rooney field atlantic 10 conference northeast  conference basketball: 1955 (nit)
anespn.com feature remarked that "[t]his is the perfect blend of location, history, design, comfort and baseball…the best stadium in baseball is in pittsburgh."[133] pnc park hosted the all-star game in 2006.
football is the most popular and tradition laden sport in the region with the nation's first-ever professional game being played in the city on november 12, 1892 between theallegheny athletic association and the pittsburgh athletic club, as well as the first pro-team in nearby latrobe and first organized league, thenfl and their inaugural champions the pittsburgh stars.
several suburban turnpike spurs along themonongahela river, the airport and near greensburg also help traffic flow.
enhancements to allow for highspeed rail transit connections to philadelphia and thenortheast corridor are underway as part of the american recovery and reinvestment act of 2009.
today, the ratio of democratic to republican  registrations within the city is 5 to 1.[138] the mayor and the nine-member council serve a four-year term.
[ 116][117] recognizing the city's cultural resources such as the carnegie  museums of pittsburgh, the pittsburgh symphony, and the pittsburgh opera, as  well as its service economy built upon education, healthcare, and technology.
the steelers have been owned by therooney family since the team's founding in 1933, show consistency in coaching (only three coaches since the 1960s all with the same basic philosophy) and are noted as one of sports' most respectable franchises on and off the field.
the two largest health care providers are the university of pittsburgh  medical center and west penn allegheny health system, respectively.
conditions are often humid, and combined with the 90 °f (32 °c) (occurring on an average 8.4 days per annum),[46] a considerableheat index arises.
flooding on the three rivers is relatively rare due to federal flood control efforts on the monongahela and allegheny rivers, which are extensively managed with locks, dams, and reservoirs.[108][110][111] residents living near smaller tributary streams are less protected from occasional flooding, however, and the cost of a comprehensive flood control program for the region has been estimated to run a prohibitive $50 billion.[108] pittsburgh's regional status pittsburgh falls within the borders of appalachia as defined by the appalachian regional commission.
in1933, william n.  mcnair became the first democrat to be elected mayor.
the total area is 4.75% water.
at the 2010 census, 64.8% of the population was non-hispanic white, 25.8% non-hispanic black or african american, 0.2% non-hispanic american indian and alaska native, 4.4% non-hispanic asian, 0.3% from some other race (non-hispanic) and 2.3% of two or more races (non-hispanic).
he served until a special mayoral election was held in november 2007, when he was re-elected.[139] city council members are chosen by plurality elections in each of nine districts.
there are 163,366 housing units at an average density of 2,939.1 per square mile (1,134.9/km2).
other professional football teams include thepittsburgh power, an arena football team scheduled to begin play in the consol energy center in april 2011, and are heirs to the pittsburgh gladiators who hosted arenabowl i in the city, competing in two total.[136] professional women's football team thepittsburgh passion has existed since 2002 plays its home games atnewman stadium, and the city also boasted the ed debartolo owned pittsburgh maulers featuring a heisman trophy winner in the mid-1980s.
following the american revolution, the village of pittsburgh continued to grow.
pittsburgh is the closest major city/media market to bothpenn state university and west virginia university, with wvu considered part of the media market.
the median age was 36 years.
showtime's popular seriesqueer as folk is also set in pittsburgh, although actual filming is done intoronto.[158] pittsburgh is a city of bridges with a total of 446.[13] pittsburgh has three bridges more thanvenice, italy, which has historically held the title "city of bridges.
pittsburgh has a number of small and mid-size arts organizations supported by individuals, local foundations, and the allegheny regional asset district.
from theamerican civil war to the 1930s, pittsburgh was a republican stronghold.
by contrast, the region supports 1,600 technology companies, ranging from a google campus to small startups.[4] the city has redeveloped abandoned industrial sites with new housing, shopping and offices, such assouthside works and bakery square.
this tradition of solidarity is unique to the city of pittsburgh.
pittsburgh ems  provides emergency medical, heavy rescue and river rescue services to the city.
this victory was purportedly facilitated by an early example of biological warfare.
allentown | butler | easton | erie | franklin | greensburg | harrisburg | lancaster | lebanon | lock haven | meadville | new castle | philadelphia | pittsburgh | pottsville | reading | scranton | sunbury | uniontown | warren | washington | wilkes-barre | williamsport | york beaver | bedford | bellefonte | bloomfield | brookville | carlisle | chambersburg | clarion | clearfield | coudersport | danville | doylestown | ebensburg | emporium | gettysburg | hollidaysburg | honesdale | huntingdon | indiana | jim thorpe | kittanning | laporte | lewisburg | lewistown | mcconnellsburg | media | mercer | middleburg | mifflintown | milford | montrose | norristown | ridgway | smethport | somerset | stroudsburg | tionesta | towanda | tunkhannock | waynesburg | wellsboro | west chester bloomsburg
regionally, it anchors the largest urban area ofappalachia[7] and the ohio river valley, and nationally, it is the 22nd-largest urban area in the united states.[8][9]
the team won foursuper bowls in a six-year span in the 1970s, a fifth super bowl in 2006, and a league recordsixth super bowl in 2009.
the  university of pittsburgh, established in 1787 and popularly referred to as  "pitt", is astate-related school with one of the country's largest  research programs.[145][146]
statistics in 2003 indicated that the pittsburgh murder rate was 2.61 times the national average.
the primary industries have shifted more to high technology, such asrobotics, health care, nuclear engineering, tourism, biomedical technology, finance, and services.
he served until a special mayoral election was held in november 2007, when he was re-elected.[139] city council members are chosen by plurality elections in each of nine  districts.
the pitt panthers won two pre-tournament erahelms  athletic foundation national championships in 1928 and 1930, competed in a  "national title game" againstlsu in 1935, and made a final four  appearance in 1941.
alternative weekly papers in the region include the pittsburgh city  paper, pittsburgh catholic, the jewish chronicle of pittsburgh ,the new people, and the new pittsburgh courier.
the school's student section refers to itself as the " oakland zoo", a reference to the oakland section of the city where the  university is located.
after the death of mayorbob o'connor in september 2006, city council president luke ravenstahl was sworn in as the mayor of pittsburgh at age 26, becoming the  youngest mayor in the history of any major american city.
alternative weekly papers in the region include the pittsburgh city paper, pittsburgh catholic, the jewish chronicle of pittsburgh ,the new people, and the new pittsburgh courier.
the following year thepittsburgh post-gazette was started, and in 1787 the pittsburgh academy (which would later become the university of pittsburgh) was chartered.
with the exception of the  1973 and 1977 elections (where lifelong democrats ran off the party ticket),  democratic candidates have been elected consecutively to the mayor's office  since the great depression.
pitt  tunnel and over the fort pitt bridge.
heinz field, home of the pittsburgh  steelers and the pittsburgh panthers (football).
in 1967, the nhl doubled its teams from six to twelve and the pittsburgh penguins were born.
the title of the book is intentionally provocative: "the paris of appalachia" some have called pittsburgh derisively, because it's still the largest city along this gorgeous mountain chain that needs a better press agent.
michael bezallion was the first to describe the forks of the ohio in a manuscript in 1717, and later that year european traders established posts and settlements in the area.[31]
during the late 2000s recession, however, pittsburgh remained economically strong, adding jobs when most cities were losing them, and becoming one of the few cities in the united states to see housing property values rise.
port authority runs a network of  intracity and intercity bus routes, themonongahela incline funicular railway  (more commonly known as an "incline") on mount washington, alight rail  system that runs mostly above-ground in the suburbs and underground as a  subway in the city, and one of the nation's largestbusway systems.[165] the  duquesne incline is operated by a non-profit preservation trust,[166] but it  does accept port authority passes and charge standard port authority tolls.
the racial makeup of the city was 67.63%white, 27.12% african american, 2.75% asian , 0.19%native american, 0.03% pacific islander, 0.66% from other races, and 1.61% from two or more races.
the nonprofit arts and cultural industry in allegheny county generates $341 million in economic activity and supports over 10,000 full time equivalent jobs.
pittsburgh has a low cost of living compared to other cities in the northeastern u.s.
"[130] power of 32 is supported in its efforts by "30 to 40 other foundations"[128] and funded by several pittsburgh-area endowments including therichard king mellon foundation and theheinz endowments.[128] several teams are followed widely in the pittsburgh area, which sporting news named the "best sports city" in the united states in 2009.[131]
several suburban private plane bases serve the region, the largest of these includerostraver airport and pittsburgh-monroeville airport.
college football is also popular, with the majority of residents supporting the localdivision i (fbs) panthers of the university of pittsburgh, often referred to as "pitt", who compete in thebig east conference.
furthermore, the monitor used is located downwind of u.s. steel's clairton coke works, the nation's largestcoke plant.[56] the city can be broken down into the downtown area, called the golden triangle,[57] and four main areas surrounding it.
in 1785 pittsburgh became a possession of the state of pennsylvania.
the survey's primary author, david savageau, has noted that pittsburgh is the only city to finish in the top 20 of every edition.
this area too, is seeing a growing residential sector, as new condo towers are constructed and historic office towers are converted to residential use.
new  riverhounds stadium 2002 2007 pittsburgh force wfa american football moe  rubenstein stadium 2008 division i college athletics most prominent  sports venues conference national championships university of  pittsburgh panthers pitt football (fbs)
kayaking is popular on the city's three rivers.
major publications often note pittsburgh's high livability compared to other american cities, with the city claiming the top overall spot in the united states in recent "most livable city" lists by rand mcnally (2007),[19] forbes (2010),[20] and the economist (2011).
the first european was the french explorer/traderrobert de la salle in his 1669 expedition down the ohio river fromlake ontario and quebec.[30]
[ 36] the great migration from the south resulted in a large increase in pittsburgh's black population.[37]
the original charter was burned when the oldcourt house was destroyed by fire.
these includepnc financial services, ppg industries, u.s. steel, h. j. heinz company, mylan laboratories (located in suburban canonsburg), wesco international, consol energy (located in suburban cecil township), and dick's sporting goods (located in suburban findlay township).[80] pittsburgh and the surrounding region is also home to allegheny technologies ,american eagle outfitters, kennametal, atlas america, bayer usa and the operations center ofalcoa.
university of pittsburgh school of law is  also home tojurist, the world's only university-based legal news service.
pro club league sport venue established championships pittsburgh's dedication to sports has a long history.
the number of pro-grade ice rinks  have increased in the region such as therostraver ice garden and iceoplex at  southpointe, and several native pittsburgh players have entered the nhl  recently citing the success of pens in the late 1980s and 1990s as spurring  their interest in the sport.
although the county was still below the "pass" threshold, the report demonstrated substantial improvement compared to previous decades on every measure of air quality.
after the french abandoned and destroyed fort bridgewater in 1758, leyland ordered the construction offort
other major employers include bny mellon, glaxosmithkline and lanxess.
service in pittsburgh is provided byequitable gas and columbia gas.
pittsburgh is also represented by the steel city derby demons, a roller  derby team of the women's flat track derby association.
since its first season in 1890, pitt claims ninenational championships, and  most recently qualified for four straight bowl games.
however, the city is connected to downtown washington, d.c. (some 245 mi (394 km) away) by a continuous bike/running trail through the alleghenies and along the potomac valley, known as thegreat allegheny passage and chesapeake and ohio canal towpath.
while the city is historically known for its steel industry, today its economy is largely based on healthcare, education, technology, robotics, and financial services.
hispanic or latino of any race were 1.32% of the population.
the pirates play inpnc park, which is annually ranked as one of the  most beautiful major league baseball parks because of its location on the banks  of the allegheny river and the view of the pittsburgh skyline.
high school games routinely get over 10,000 fans per contest and extensive  press coverage.
the warmest month of the year in pittsburgh is july, with a 24-hour average of 72.6 °f (22.6 °c).
authority's light rail and multiple bridges leading north and south.[60]
there are also  threepublic radio stations in the area; including wesa 90.5 fm (national public  radio affiliate and jazz music station operated by duquesne university), wqed  89.3 fm (classical), andwyep 91.3 fm (adult alternative).
the members of the city council are: darlene harris (1), theresa  kail-smith (2),bruce kraus (3), natalia rudiak (4), douglas shields (5), r.  daniel lavelle (6),patrick dowd (7), bill peduto (8), and rev. ricky burgess  (9).[140] the president of city council is darlene harris, who was elected to  the position on january 4, 2010.[141] pittsburgh is represented in the pennsylvania general assembly by three  senate districts and nine house districts.
he also named the settlement between the rivers "pittsborough".[32] during pontiac's rebellion, ohio valley and great lakes tribes besieged fort pitt for two months.
[ 113]:13 pittsburgh lies only a few dozen miles from the spot where the physical  boundaries of three major regions of the united states converge ( 40°38′19.67″n 80°31′8.37″w﻿ / ﻿ 40.6387972°n 80.5189917°w﻿ / 40.6387972; -80.5189917), namely  the northeastern united states, themidwestern united states, and the southern  united states,[118] and in straddling these boundaries, it borrows cultural  influences from a variety of sources.[citation needed] joseph scarpaci, professor emeritus of geography at virginia tech, has  described pittsburgh as having "one foot in the east…and the other  in the midwest".[112]:1 in his 2009 book the paris of appalachia,  pittsburgh post-gazette writer brian o'neill meditates on this aspect of  pittsburgh's regional and cultural ambiguity.
the act of march 18, 1816 incorporated the city of pittsburgh.
before the city transitioned from an industrial economy to a service economy, it was characterized as the "northern urban industrial anchor of appalachia",[112]:167 a designation which made it an anomaly compared to much of appalachia in the 20th century, which was traditionally characterized as southern, rural, and economically distressed.[112]:167
concurrent with the jurisdiction of allegheny county is the county police (primarily parks and airports) the port authority police for rapid transit, the housing and school police, and suburban departments.
navigation around the city and its suburbs can also be accomplished via  the non-expresswaypittsburgh/allegheny county belt system.
lifetime's reality television show, dance moms, is filmed at abby lee dance company in pittsburgh.
department spokesman guillermo cole stated that "it's the best it's been in the lifetime for virtually every resident in this county…we've seen a steady decrease in pollution levels over the past decade and certainly over the past 20, 30, 40, 50 years or more.
[ 69] in 2009, forbes ranked pittsburgh the 7th safest city in the usa in terms of violent crime.[70][71] the growth of pittsburgh and its economy was caused by the extensive trade in steel through the 1970s.
the city has some 712 sets ofstairs, comprising 44,645 treads and 24,090 vertical feet (more than san francisco, cincinnati, and portland, oregon combined) for pedestrians to traverse its many hills.
the greater pittsburgh region boasts even more colleges and  universities, includingclarion university of pennsylvania, laroche college,  slippery rock university, westminster college and grove city college north of  the city,robert morris university and geneva college west of the city,  washington & jefferson college, california university of pennsylvania and  waynesburg university to the south, and seton hill university, saint vincent  college and indiana university of pennsylvania – the biggest state  university – to the east.
pittsburgh lies in the transition between the humid continental and humid subtropical climate zones (köppen dfa/cfa), but is closer to the former.
independent student-written university-based newspapers includethe
for more details on this topic, see american  football in western pennsylvania.
wbgn 59 is an independent station owned and operated by the  bruno-goodworth network.
pittsburgh's patchwork of neighborhoods still retain an ethnic character reflecting the city's immigrant history.
high school games routinely get over 10,000 fans per contest and extensive press coverage.
reflecting the citywide shift from industry to technology, some former factories have been directly renovated into modern office space.
showtime's popular  seriesqueer as folk is also set in pittsburgh, although actual filming  is done intoronto.[158] [edit] infrastructure [edit] transportation
there are hundreds of 'paper streets' composed entirely of stairs and many other steep streets with stairs for sidewalks.[44]
carnegie mellon university (cmu) is a private research university founded by andrew carnegie and is ranked #22 overall on us news & world report list of america's best national universities.[144] carnegie mellon is known  primarily for itscomputer science, engineering, business, economics, public  policy, information systems, fine arts, and entrepreneurship programs.
many provide views of the pittsburgh area.[45] the city has established bike and walking trails along its riverfronts and hollows, but steep hills and variable weather can makebiking challenging.