[ reply to comment ] incredabull
run your bracket pool online withbracket manager.
philadelphia (temple) is the  nation’s no. 4 market, dallas (smu) is no. 5 and houston is no. 10.
3:51 pm score: 0 big east plotting football, hoops divisions not to mention that fiu beat ucf.
no. 4 market, dallas (smu) is no. 5 and houston is no. 10.
beyond navy, air force and ucf, a league source said “no one team is definitely next” as an expansion candidate.
level: all-star since: oct 6, 2011 posted on: october 11, 2011 3:52 pm score: 17 big east plotting football, hoops divisions they should only add 2 more schools for hoops temple and maybe umass both in the mac for football and both historic basketball teams teams.
reputation: 65 level: pro since: oct 11, 2011 posted on: october 11, 2011 3:49 pm score: 66 big east plotting football, hoops divisions fiu would be a better addition than ucf.
and i are moving scott miller's bull pennings, 03/10/12 3:17
strong facilities and a strong out of conference schedule year in year out.
reputation: 65 level: pro since: oct 11, 2011 posted on: october 11, 2011
however, there remains the very real possibility louisville and west virginia may not be in the league and bound for the big 12 if missouri leaves for the sec or the big 12 expands to 12 teams.
joining a bcs conference isn't about how that conference can help your school.
" ecu does bring in lots of fans to the stadium for sure.
the newark star-ledger reported one proposed alignment discussed at tuesday’s meeting consisted of rutgers, uconn, south florida, ucf, temple and navy in an east division with west virginia, louisville, cincinnati, air force, smu and houston in a west division.
my account - member search - blog search - about community brett mcmurphy mcmurphy's law name: private gender: member since: may 23, 2011 email: private favorite teams big east plotting football, hoops divisions posted on: october 11, 2011 1:50
the newark star-ledger reported one proposed alignment discussed at  tuesday’s meeting consisted of rutgers, uconn, south florida, ucf, temple  and navy in an east division with west virginia, louisville, cincinnati, air  force, smu and houston in a west division.
temple - philadelphia, pennsylvania.
however, others believe boise state, located nearly 700 miles west of air force and nearly 2,200 miles from tampa/usf, is simply too far to consider.
boise  state’s athletic achievements, academic and research successes,  popularity, and vision for future growth make the university an extremely  valuable conference partner.”
in fact, the only florida teams that ucf has ever beaten are fau and bethune-cookman.
even in the hight of the buc's superbowl run they could not fill the stadium.
navy, air force and boise state are being considered as football members only, while ucf, temple, houston and smu are at the top of the list as all-sports members so it’s unknown right now how large the basketball membership could grow.
it's about how your school can help the bcs conference.
i also don't buy the argument that ucf would "improve" in an aq conference.
the rays won the al east, and the al championship and they beg the fans to show up.
a lot of teams would improve in an aq conference.
“while we are certainly flattered to be mentioned in connection with  other conferences and we hold those leagues in high regard, our current focus  is on continuing to build the outstanding athletic programs that have helped  make boise state a popular and compelling national brand," kustra said.
cincy - cincinnati, ohio.
“the landscape of college athletics is exceptionally fluid, and we  are continuing to monitor the situation.
"give us a conference championship game!"
zdnet cbs cares | cbs films | cbs radio | cbs.com | cbsinteractive | cbsnews.com | cbssports.com | chow | clicker | cnet | college network | find articles | gamespot | help.com | last.fm |maxpreps | metacritic.com | moneywatch | mysimon | radio.com | search.com | shopper.com | showtime | smartplanet | techrepublic | the insider | tv.com | urbanbaby.com | zdnet about cbssports.com | advertise | site map | development center © 2012 cbs interactive.
big east plotting football, hoops divisions it's too bad the best basketball conference in falling apart to save the 6th best conference in football.
sportsline is a registered service mark of sportsline.com, inc.
| help not a member, register now!
smu and ucf are riding a high and at the moment ecu is in flux.
big untapped tv market of raleigh, tidewater and charlotte.
all of the other 4 teams added should be football-only.
beyond navy, air force and ucf, a league source said “no one team is  definitely next” as an expansion candidate.
so im not sure how the bulls have helped the conference either [ reply to comment ] boyee2
sign-in forgot log-in or password ?
some  league members support adding boise state because of the broncos’ recent  success, which would help the league with its future bcs status.
they are better at fb than many of the other schools but it is about location...why is nobody mentioning southern miss?
while commissioner john marinatto said in a statement monday the league would consider a model with 12 football members, part of tuesday’s call was discussing the possibility of splitting the football and basketball conference into divisions, once the football side is replenished.
we are confident that boise state  will be well positioned for future success, and we will evaluate our status  with the best interests of the entire university in mind.
top 3 attendance outside the aq schools.
philadelphia (temple) is the nation’s
reputation: 0 level: amateur since: oct 11, 2011 posted on: october 11, 2011 3:53 pm score: 90 big east plotting football, hoops divisions not really sure how tampa has helped, have you won the big east?
southern miss has been to 8 straight bowl games and ecu 5 a claim that only 20 other programs can make yet they both appear to be on the outside looking in.
that does not translate into bringing in other markets however.
houston - houston, texas.
navy - annapolis, maryland.
boise state president bob kustra said in a statement monday that the  broncos “are looking forward to their inaugural season” in the  mountain west conference and he “has great confidence in the future  direction of the mountain west.”
follow me on twitter: @mcmurphycbs subscribe to this blog recent blog entries mcmurphy's law cbssports.com blogs - it's true: i'm moving 03/12/12 11:22 am - big east "open" to pitt, syracuse leaving early 03/07/12
the presidents, chancellors and athletic directors continued to discuss potential expansion candidates.
nobody is talking about is the strategic aspect of adding the service academies.
tampa is not much for sports anyhow.
usf - tampa, florida.
however, there remains the very real possibility louisville and west  virginia may not be in the league and bound for the big 12 if missouri leaves  for the sec or the big 12 expands to 12 teams.
what make temple, smu and houston attractive to the big east, one source  said, is their respective television markets.
a league source also told cbssports.com that army is no longer being considered as a candidate by the big east.
“while we are certainly flattered to be mentioned in connection with other conferences and we hold those leagues in high regard, our current focus is on continuing to build the outstanding athletic programs that have helped make boise state a popular and compelling national brand," kustra said.
compete for up to $3,500 with fantasy baseball premium games.
smu - dallas, texas. 6.
name: private  gender:  member since: may  23, 2011 email: private  favorite teams big east plotting football, hoops divisions posted on: october 11,  2011 1:50 pm officials from what’s left of the big east’s dwindling football  membership had another conference call on tuesday morning and there remains no  specific timetable on adding ucf, but “appears an invitation is  forthcoming” for the knights, the league’s no. 1 target.
ucf - orlando, florida.
category: ncaaf tags: air  force, army, big 12, big east, boise state, cincinnati, houston, louisville,  navy, rutgers, south florida, temple, ucf, uconn, west virginia « prev · 1 · 2 · 3 · 4 · 5 · 6 · 7 · 8 · 9 · 10 · next »
however,  others believe boise state, located nearly 700 miles west of air force and  nearly 2,200 miles from tampa/usf, is simply too far to consider.
[ reply to comment ] dcpirate28 reputation: 98 level: superstar since: jan 16, 2010 posted on: october 11, 2011 4:51 pm score: 135 big east plotting football, hoops divisions liontime has it right, the federal government funds the service academies try pulling their aq bid unless you want congress to investigate the entire system.
the cadets were 9-41 in c-usa play and  finished last in the league five of the seven seasons.
other than in greenville (small market) ecu would not bring in other nc markets unless they were going to a bcs game.
posted on: october 11, 2011 4:20 pm score: 86
i don't know if anyone is thinking about it this way, but i sure would not want to be the bcs president having to explain that one to say congress.
pm score: 103 big east plotting football, hoops divisions hulaboytroy wrote "can someone please explain why east carolina is on the outside looking in?
i love the pirates and i agree they are getting a raw deal.
“they’ve been honest  with us and that they’re not interested because of the challenges they  had previously in conference usa,” the source said.
i am pulling for ecu.
navy, air force and boise state are being considered as football members  only, while ucf, temple, houston and smu are at the top of the list as  all-sports members so it’s unknown right now how large the basketball  membership could grow.
does anyone think the bcs will get away with yanking the aq status of the conference navy and air force are in one year after joining?
rutgers - new jersey.
it would've been nice, but army can't compete eliminating themselves from consideration.
the views expressed in this blog are solely those of the author and do not reflect the views of cbs sports or cbssports.com visit other cbs interactive sites select site cbs cares cbs films cbs radio cbs.com cbsinteractive cbsnews.com cbssports.com chow clicker cnet college network find articles gamespot help.com last.fm maxpreps metacritic.com moneywatch mysimon radio.com search.com shopper.com showtime smartplanet techrepublic the insider tv.com urbanbaby.com
(add: east carolina).
central fantasy news and analysis - fantasy football player news, rankings, projections - fantasy baseball player news, rankings, projections - fantasy basketball player news, rankings, projections - fantasy hockey player news, rankings, projections - nfl home - draft - scores - standings - schedules - stats - teams - players - transactions - free agents - injuries - experts - video - message board - rapidreports - blog - fantasy news - mlb home - scores - standings - schedules - stats - teams - players - transactions - injuries - experts - video - message board - fantasy news - blog - nba home - scores - playoff picture - standings - schedules - stats - teams - players - transactions - injuries - experts - video - message board - fantasy news - blog - nhl home - scores - playoff picture - standings - schedules - stats - teams - players - transactions - injuries - video - message board - fantasy news - blog - college fb home - scores - standings - schedules - stats - teams - players - rankings - experts - video - message board - rapidreports - recruiting - spring practices - blog - college bb home - brackets - scores - standings - schedules - stats - teams - players - rankings - experts - picks - video - rapidreports - message board - recruiting - blog - golf home - masters - leaderboard - schedules - players - stats - expert picks - video - message board - course guide - blog - nascar home - sprint cup - nationwide - trucks - teams - tracks - video - message board - blog - tennis home - scores - schedules - rankings - players - message board - high school home - football recruiting - hoops recruiting - football rankings - hoops rankings - girls volleyball rankings - girls volleyball teams - bowling - boxing - horse racing - ufc - site index - cbs sports - cbs sports network - showtime - cbssports.com shop - nfl shop - mlb shop - nhl shop - college apparel - nba store - dvd store - auctions - memorabilia - video home - masters live - ulive - live college games - fantasy baseball 360 - conversations with cbs sports - a game of honor - tim brando show - community home - my profile - my blog - groups - my settings -
“they’ve been honest with us and that they’re not interested because of the challenges they had previously in conference usa,” the source said.
how about putting the best 64 teams out there and see what happens on the field not in some board room where a bunch of fools try to carve up a pie on the backs of kids that in many cases could not get into the university the represent.
houston is a good fit.
they are very much like ecu, great fb tradition but location stinks.
some league members support adding boise state because of the broncos’ recent success, which would help the league with its future bcs status.
this stinks just like 03-04 expansion.
fiu is in perhaps one of the best recruiting areas in the nation, you don't think they would improve if they had all the money that being in an aq conference brings?
the game is being destroyed before our eyes.
af and navy also are good fits (not so much geographically for af).
air force - colorado springs, colorado.
[ reply to comment ] celticpatsox12 reputation: 99 level: superstar since: nov 3, 2007
nobody in tidewater (norfolk/va beach) knows who they are ....that is vt territory (more than uva).
they'd get more fan turnout playing against teams like wvu, usf, and louisville than they would playing the likes of troy, ul-lafayette, and north texas.
[ reply to comment ] dreamer kevin reputation: 88 level: all-star since: mar 28, 2007
tampa fans are fickle anyhow, if the day is sunny people are at the beach on the boat.
privacy policy | ad choice | terms of use | mobile user agreement | cbs sports is a registered trademark of cbs broadcasting inc.
we are confident that boise state will be well positioned for future success, and we will evaluate our status with the best interests of the entire university in mind.
boise st - boise, idaho.
7:35 pm - mac reorganizes after temple departure 03/07/12 4:24 pm - big east adds temple as an all sports member 03/07/12 10:38 am - temple to big east after it settles with mac 03/02/12
posted on: october 11, 2011 4:26
bergersphere, 03/10/12 1:16
they all bring in pretty big tv markets and some bring in good bb as well (houston and temple).
pm officials from what’s left of the big east’s dwindling football membership had another conference call on tuesday morning and there remains no specific timetable on adding ucf, but “appears an invitation is forthcoming” for the knights, the league’s no. 1 target.
among those mentioned were ucf, air force, navy, temple, houston, smu and boise state, a league source told cbssports.com.
eastern & western conference w/ 5-6 conference games each and meeting in the big east championship.
enter your bracket for a chance to win a trip for 4 to the 2013 ncaa® final four® see all games visit app
[ reply to comment ] liontime reputation: 99 level: superstar since: jan 29, 2008 posted on: october 11, 2011 4:35 pm score: 108 big east plotting football, hoops divisions one thing
stream saturday and sunday on cbs: the masters live on cbs sports network: tim brando show search - fantasy - nfl - mlb - nba - nhl - college fb - college bb - golf - nascar - tennis - high school - more sports - video - community - tv - mobile - shop games the official fantasy baseball commissioner game of mlb.com.
category: ncaaf tags: air force, army, big 12, big east, boise state, cincinnati, houston, louisville, navy, rutgers, south florida, temple, ucf, uconn, west virginia « prev · 1 · 2 · 3 · 4 · 5 · 6 · 7 · 8 · 9 · 10 · next » commentsadd a comment jerzy joe reputation: 26 level: rookie
eye on football, 03/10/12 11:41 am mcmurphy's law's tags brett mcmurphy's favorites - big east (70) - big 12 (46) - west virginia (40) - houston (31) - syracuse (31) - boise state (30) - louisville (30) - sec (30) - pittsburgh (27) - ucf (27) - acc (21) - navy (21) - smu (21) - tcu (20) - oklahoma (19) - air force (18) - oklahoma state (17) - rutgers (17) - byu (16) - cincinnati (15) - alabama (14) - big ten (14) - lsu (14) - missouri (14) - texas (14) - uconn (14) - nebraska (13) - temple (13) - memphis (12) - south florida (12) - arkansas (11) - baylor (11) - florida (11) - kansas state (11) - notre dame (11) - texas a&m (11) - clemson (10) - john marinatto (10) - mike slive (10) - mountain west (10) - ohio state (10) - san diego state (10) - southern miss (10) - virginia tech (10) - bcs (9) - conference usa (9) - florida state (9) - michigan (9) - stanford (9) - auburn (8) - ncaa (8) - pac-12 (8) - penn state (8) - south carolina (8) - usc (8) - georgia tech (7) - michigan state (7) - oregon (7) - akron (6) - georgia (6) - mac (6) - marshall (6) - miami (6) - mississippi state (6) - tennessee (6) - tulane (6) - uab (6) - duke (5) - east carolina (5) - iowa (5) - maryland (5) - n.c. state (5) - new mexico (5) - sun belt (5) - tulsa (5) - utep (5) - villanova (5) - wac (5) - wisconsin (5) - army (4) - colorado (4) - colorado state (4) - georgetown (4) - kentucky (4) - les miles (4) - marquette (4) - minnesota (4) - north carolina (4) - oliver luck (4) - providence (4) - seton hall (4) - texas tech (4) - tom holmoe (4) - unlv (4) - utah (4) - vanderbilt (4) - virginia (4) - washington (4) - atlantic 10 (3) - bobby petrino (3) no favorites
maybe even temple is a fit.
the cadets were 9-41 in c-usa play and finished last in the league five of the seven seasons.
boise state president bob kustra said in a statement monday that the broncos “are looking forward to their inaugural season” in the mountain west conference and he “has great confidence in the future direction of the mountain west.”
“the landscape of college athletics is exceptionally fluid, and we are continuing to monitor the situation.
[ reply to comment ] maskedoutlaw
since: jan 4, 2010 posted on: october 11, 2011 5:17 pm score: -181 big east conference.
at least fiu brings the miami area.
same thing regarding fan support.
boise state’s athletic achievements, academic and research successes, popularity, and vision for future growth make the university an extremely valuable conference partner.”
army was in c-usa from 1998-2004.
suggestion (12-14) conference league.. *eastern* 1.
what make temple, smu and houston attractive to the big east, one source said, is their respective television markets.
[ reply to comment ] jaydubya1966 reputation: 15 level: amateur since: oct 10, 2011
one day its market size, the next attendence, the next something else.
among those mentioned were ucf, air force,  navy, temple, houston, smu and boise state, a league source told cbssports.com.
pm - eye on football blog has a new home!
2:58 pm - i've moved freestyle, 03/13/12 12:31 pm - i've moved dodds and ends, 03/10/12 4:45 pm - bull pennings
a league source also told cbssports.com that army is no longer being  considered as a candidate by the big east.
while commissioner john marinatto said in a statement monday the league  would consider a model with 12 football members, part of tuesday’s call  was discussing the possibility of splitting the football and basketball  conference into divisions, once the football side is replenished.
posted on: october 11, 2011 5:12 pm score: 59 big east plotting football, hoops divisions this is just plain sad.
[ reply to comment ] « prev · 1 · 2 · 3 · 4 · 5 · 6 · 7 · 8 · 9 · 10 · next » about mcmurphy's law up-to-the-minute college football news, views and analysis.
the presidents, chancellors and athletic directors continued to discuss  potential expansion candidates.
there also appears to be conflicting opinions on pursuing boise state.