initially, one shot is awarded, but after a certain number of additional fouls are committed the opposing team may receive (a) one shot with a chance for a second shot if the first shot is made, called shooting "one-and-one", or (b) two shots.
chicago bulls star forward luol deng is a sudanese refugee  who settled ingreat britain; steve nash, who won the 2005 and 2006 nba mvp award , iscanadian; kobe bryant is an american who spent much of his childhood in  italy; dallas mavericks superstar and 2007 nba mvp dirk nowitzki is german;  all-starpau gasol of the memphis grizzlies is from spain; 2005 nba draft top  overall pickandrew bogut of the milwaukee bucks is australian; 2006 nba draft  top overall pickandrea bargnani of the toronto raptors is from italy; houston  rockets center yao ming is from china; cleveland cavaliers big man zydrunas  ilgauskas is lithuanian; and the san antonio spurs feature tim duncan of the  u.s. virgin islands, manu ginobili of argentina (like chicago bulls player  andrés nocioni) andtony parker of france.
... is the 45th day of the year in the gregorian calendar. ...
...  the chicago bulls are a professional basketball team based in chicago,  illinois. ...
offensive plays are more varied, normally involving planned passes and  movement by players without the ball.
a particularly bad shot, or one that only hits the backboard, is jocularly called abrick.
half-court games require lesscardiovascular stamina, since players need not run back and forth a full court.
streetball is an urban  form of basketball, played on playgrounds and in gymnasiums across the world.
at the professional level, most male players are above 1.90 meters (6 ft 3 in) and most women above 1.70 meters (5 ft 7 in).
for the ball used in this sport, see volleyball (ball).
the table officials are responsible for keeping track of each teams scoring, timekeeping, individual and teamfouls, player substitutions, teampossession arrow, and the shot clock.
in man-to-man defense, each defensive player guards a specific opponent and tries to prevent him from taking action.
players from all over the globe can be  found in nba teams.
for other uses, see munich (disambiguation). ...
most players shoot directly into  the basket, but shooters may use the backboard to redirect the ball into the  basket.
... categories: articles needing additional references from august 2006 | team sports | ball games | olympic sports | basketball | canadian inventions want to know more?
this article is about the united basketball league. ...
these rules are  designed to promote more offense.
although the rules do not specify any positions whatsoever, they have evolved as part of basketball.
though it had an insecure opening season, several marquee players (sheryl swoopes, lisa leslie and sue bird among others) helped the league's popularity and level of competition.
image file history file links download high-resolution  version (1217x1504, 627 kb) summary xx.
it has been suggested that  three point play be merged into this article or section.
the ball is shot by bending and extending the knees  and extending the shooting arm to become straight; the ball rolls off the  finger tips while the wrist completes a full downward flex motion.
(duncan competes for the united states internationally, as the virgin islands did not field a basketball team for international competition until well after duncan started playing internationally, and all u.s. virgin islands natives are united states citizens by birth.)
the ideal trajectory of the shot is somewhat arguable, but generally coaches will profess proper arch.
some variations are only superficial rules changes, while others are distinct games with varying degrees of basketball influences.
the international women's sports federation (1924) included a women's basketball  competition.
basketball was first included in the olympic games in 1936, although a demonstration tournament was held in 1904.
... naismith's handwritten diaries, discovered by his granddaughter in early 2006, indicate that he was nervous about the new game he had invented, which incorporated rules from a canadian children's game called "duck on a rock", as many had failed before it.
if a player is fouled while attempting a shot and the shot is  unsuccessful, the player is awarded a number of free throws equal to the value  of the attempted shot.
julius winfield erving ii  (born february 22, 1950 in roosevelt, new york), commonly known by the nickname  dr. j, is a former american basketball player who helped launch a modern style  of play that emphasizes leaping and play above the rim. ...
dwyane wade is the current king of circus shots, following in the footsteps of former circus shooting legends like michael jordan and dominque wilkins.
in 1892, university of california and miss head's school, played the first women's inter-institutional game.
indianapolis redirects here.
vassar, michigan is a place in the state of michigan in the united states of america. ...
the only players on either team to never have joined the nba are cameron and papaloukas.
dribbling is the act of bouncing the ball continuously, and is a requirement for a player to take steps with the ball.
the original celtics, no relation to the equally famous boston celtics, were an outstanding barnstorming professional basketball team in the 1920s. ...
most passes are accompanied by a step forward to increase power and are followed through with the hands to ensure accuracy.
olympic games munich 1972 - kresimir cosic (yugoslavia) vs. ...
h. sophie newcomb memorial college of tulane university was  established in new orleans, louisiana, circa 1884, as a womens college. ...
although the rules do not specify any positions whatsoever, they have  evolved as part of basketball.
ncaa redirects here.
overtime is an additional period of play specified  under the rules of a sport in order to bring the game to a decision and avoid  declaring the contest a tie or draw.
... the nba-backed women's national basketball association (wnba) began 1997.
year 1946  (mcmxlvi) was a common year starting on tuesday (link will display full 1946  calendar) of the gregorian calendar. ...
for other uses, see indiana (disambiguation). ...
in the days before widespreadtelevision coverage of professional and college  sports, the popularity of high school basketball was unrivaled in many parts of  america.
the ceremony for the lighting of the flame is arranged as a pagan pageant, with priestesses dancing. ...
this article or section does not adequately cite its references or  sources.
establishment - balfour declaration 18 november 1926 - statute of westminster 11 december 1931 - london declaration 28 april 1949 area - total...
is a german basketball player for the united states national basketball  associations (nba) dallas mavericks. ...
the pick and roll (also called screen and roll or shortened to screen-roll) in basketball, is an offensive play in which a player sets a screen (pick) for a teammate handling the ball and then slips behind the defender (rolls) to accept a pass.
the ball-handler may not move both feet without dribbling, known astraveling, nor may he dribble with both hands or catch the ball in between dribbles, a violation calleddouble dribbling.
a player or coach who shows poor sportsmanship, for instance, by  arguing with a referee or by fighting with another player, can be charged with  a more serious foul called atechnical foul.
competitive levels  require the use of more equipment such as clocks, scoresheets, scoreboard(s),
the penalty involves free throws  (which unlike a personal foul, the other team canchoose who they want to  shoot the free throws) and varies between leagues.
for other uses, see lacrosse (disambiguation).
the league currently has eight teams, but added seven more for the 2006-2007 season.
this article does not cite any references or sources.
a netball game in australia netball is a non contact sport similar to, and derived from, basketball. ...
dirk werner  nowitzki (ipa pronunciation: ) (born june 19, 1978 in würzburg, germany)
... worldwide, basketball tournaments are held for boys and girls of all  age levels.
the university of utah (also the u or the u of u or the uu), located in salt lake city, is the flagship public research university in the state of utah, and one of 10 institutions that make up the utah system of higher education. ...
anthony "spud" webb was just 5 feet 7 inches (1.70 m) tall, but had a 42-inch (1.07 m) vertical leap, giving him significant height when jumping.
a  rebound in basketball is the act of successfully gaining possession of the  basketball after a missed field goal or free throw. ...
the most  crowd-pleasing, and typically highest-percentage accuracy shot is theslam  dunk, in which the player jumps very high, and throws the ball downward,  straight through the hoop.
basketball, netball, dodgeball, volleyball, and lacrosse are the only ball games which have been identified as being invented by north americans.
naša sinalko liga (english: our sinalco league) is a domestic basketball league in serbia. ...
wellesley is the name of various places in the world including: wellesley,  massachusetts wellesley college is a private college in wellesley,  massachusetts. ...
official logo the winner, spain, is being celebrated the 2006 fiba  world championship was an international basketball competition hosted by japan  from august 19 to september 3, 2006. ...
women's basketball was more structured.
luol deng (born april 16, 1985 in wau, sudan) is a  british professional basketball player for the national basketball associations  chicago bulls, where he plays small forward. ...
the all-tournament teams at the two most recent fiba world championships, held in 2002 in indianapolis and 2006 in japan, demonstrate the globalization of the game equally dramatically.
in sports, a coach or manager is an individual involved in the direction and instruction of the on-field operations of an athletic team or of individual athletes.
after a team has committed a specified number of fouls, it is said to be "in the penalty".
james a. naismith,(november 6, 1861 â november 28, 1939) was the inventor of the sport of basketball and the first to introduce the use of a helmet in american football.
rebounding main article: rebound (basketball) the objective of rebounding is to successfully gain possession of the  basketball after a missed field goal or free throw, as it rebounds from the  hoop or backboard.
the first national championship for ncaa teams, thenational invitation  tournament (nit) in new york, was organized in 1938; the ncaa national  tournament would begin one year later.
if a team surpasses  10 fouls in the half the opposing team is awarded two free throws on all  subsequent fouls for the half.
basketball may refer to: basketball, the sport basketball, a 1967 film directed by donald shebib the basketball diaries, a 1978 book by jim carroll, subsequently a 1995 film starring leonardo dicaprio note the exact spelling of the following: baseketball, a 1998 david zucker comedy film this is a disambiguation page...
the global popularity of the sport is reflected in the  nationalities represented in the nba.
when the  shooting arm is stationary for a moment after the ball released, it is known as  a follow-through; it is incorporated to maintain accuracy.
a jump shot being taken at the fiba eurocup women finals in 2005.
generally, the  non-shooting arm is used only to guide the shot, not to power it.
a five-time winner of the nba most valuable player award  and a twelve-time all-star, the 6 ft 9 in russell was the...  the  boston celtics are a professional basketball team based in boston,  massachusetts. ...
... there are limits imposed on the time taken before progressing the ball  past halfway (8 seconds in international and nba; 10 seconds in ncaa and high  school), before attempting a shot (24 seconds in the nba; 35 seconds in ncaa),  holding the ball while closely guarded (5 seconds), and remaining in the  restricted area (the lane, or "key") (3 seconds).
the five olympic rings were  designed in 1913, adopted in 1914 and debuted at the games at antwerp, 1920. ...
year 2007 (mmvii) is the current year, a common year starting on monday of the gregorian calendar and the ad/ce era in the 21st century.
yugoslavia was generally regarded as the second-leading force in international basketball, behind only the united states of america. ...
in basketball, an assist is attributed to a  player who passes the ball to a teammate in a way that leads to a score by  field goal, meaning that he or she was assisting in the basket. ...
dribbling was eventually introduced but limited by the  asymmetric shape of early balls.
olympic games munich 1972 - kresimir cosic  (yugoslavia) vs. ...
robert joseph cousy (born august 9, 1928 in new york city, is an american former professional basketball player, who played point guard with the nbas boston celtics from 1951 to 1963 and (briefly) with the cincinnati royals in the 1969-1970 season, being recognized as one of the greatest...
a team, once having established ball control in the front half of the court, may not return the ball to the backcourt.
since the 1980s, more specific positions have evolved, namely: image file history file links basketball_positions.
the  ceremony for the lighting of the flame is arranged as a pagan pageant, with  priestesses dancing.
there were hundreds of men's  professional basketball teams in towns and cities all over the united states  and little organization of the professional game.
basketball's early adherents were dispatched to ymcas throughout the  united states, and it quickly spread through the usa and canada.
the nba development league, or d-league, is the national basketball associations officially sponsored and operated developmental basketball organization. ...
this is a chinese  name; the family name is yao (å§š) yao ming (chinese: ; pinyin:  ) (born september 12, 1980, in shanghai, china) is a chinese professional  basketball player and is arguably the best center in the national basketball  association (nba) today. ...
beach  basketball is played in a circular court with no backboard on the goal, no  out-of-bounds rule with the ball movement to be done via passes or 2 1/2 steps,  as dribbling is not allowed.[6] wheelchair basketball is a sport played  primarily by people with disabilities. ...
variations and similar games main article: variations of basketball variations of basketball are activities based on the game of  basketball, using common basketball skills and equipment (primarily the ball  and basket).
suzanne brigit bird (born october 16, 1980) is a professional womens  basketball player. ...
teams almost always have several offensive plays planned to ensure  their movement is not predictable.
university began sponsoring men's games.
in sports, a foul is a violation of the games rules. ...
year 1896 (mdcccxcvi) was a leap year starting on wednesday (link will display calendar).
emanuel david ginobili (spanish: ginóbili) (born july 28, 1977 in bahía blanca, argentina), better known as manu ginobili, is an argentine basketball player of italian descent. ...
andrea bargnani, nicknamed il mago  (translated to the magician), (born october 26, 1985 in rome, italy) is an  italian professional basketball player with the toronto raptors of the national  basketball association. ...
overtime periods are five minutes  long.
it is therefore important for a player to be able to  dribble competently with both hands.
in basketball, a three-point field goal, three-pointer, three-point shot, or simply three is a field goal made from beyond the three point line, a designated semi-ellipsoid arc radiating from the basket.
the uleb cup is a second-caliber professional basketball league with teams from europeean federation associated to uleb (basketball european leagues union), that havent qualified to euroleague. ... //
the same year, mount holyoke and sophie newcomb college (coached byclara gregory baer) women began playing basketball.
(some scoreboards also indicate the number of fouls committed.)
professional athletes are distinguished from amateur  athletes by virtue of being paid. ...
this article needs additional references or sources for verification. ...
fiba oceania is a zone within the fiba association which contains all 21 national oceania fiba federations. ...
beach soccer is a variant of the sport of association football. ...
safe haven games are field games played by opposing teams; a player on one team puts a ball in play and becomes a runner, trying to advance to a marked safe haven.
a successful shot is worth two points, orthree points if it is taken from beyond the three-point arc which is 6.25 meters (20 ft 6 in) from the basket in international games and 23 ft 9 in (7.24 m) in nba games.
brynmawr (bryn-mawr) is a market town in the county borough of blaenau gwent, traditional county of brecknockshire, mid wales. ... is the 94th day of the year (95th in leap years) in the gregorian calendar. ...
the national basketball association first named a most valuable player after the 1955-56 nba season. ...
not to be confused with ywca.
the set shot is taken from a standing  position, with neither foot leaving the floor, typically used for free throws.
the calling of fouls can vary between games, leagues and even between referees.
on scoreboards, this is usually signified with  an indicator light reading "bonus" or "penalty" with an  illuminated directional arrow indicating that team is to receive free throws  when fouled by the opposing team.
... defensive and offensive structures, and positions, are more emphasized  in higher levels in basketball; it is these that a coach normally requests a  time-out to discuss.
the national  federation of state high school associations (or nfhs) is the body which  oversees and governs most high school interscholastic athletics and  extracirriculars in the united states at the national level. ...
incorporated as trustees of dartmouth college,[6][7] it is a member of the ivy league and one of the nine colonial colleges founded before the american revolution. ...
year 1892 (mdcccxcii) was a leap year starting on friday (link  will display the full calendar) of the gregorian calendar (or a leap year  starting on wednesday of the 12-day slower julian calendar). ...
fiba europe is a zone within the fiba association which contains all 50 national european fiba federations. ...
earl antoine boykins  (born june 2, 1976 in cleveland, ohio) is an american professional basketball  player currently with the milwaukee bucks of the national basketball  association.
the shot  clock monument in syracuse, new york a shot clock is a timer designed to  increase the pace (and subsequently, the score) in a competitive sport.
in basketball, the basketball court is the playing surface, consisting of a rectangular floor with baskets at either end. ...
a player who makes a basket is awarded up to three extra free throws (or unlimited if you are playing "all day"), worth the usual one point.
a korfball match in the netherlands between trekvogels and ozc korfball (dutch: korfbal) is a team ball game, similar in many ways to mixed netball. ...
image file  history file links download high resolution version (599x700, 192 kb)
no player may interfere with the basket or ball on its downward flight to the basket, or while it is on the rim (or, in the nba, while it is directly above the basket), a violation known asgoaltending.
zydrunas  ilgauskas (born june 5, 1975 in kaunas, lithuania) is a basketball player for  the cleveland cavaliers and one of the top centers in the nbas eastern  conference. ...
the commonwealth of nations as of 2007  headquarters marlborough house, london,
a sport governing body comes in several forms. ...
its acronym, in french, was thus fiba; the "a" standing for amateur.
... the shortest player ever to play in the nba is muggsy bogues at 1.60  meters (5 ft 3 in).
the united states basketball league otcbb: usbl is a professional mens spring basketball league. ...
a special way of doing  this is passing the ball without looking at the receiving teammate.
...   the university of kansas (often referred to as ku or just kansas) is an  institution of higher learning in lawrence, kansas. ...
in 1901, colleges, including theuniversity of chicago, columbia university, dartmouth college, university of minnesota, the u.s. naval academy, the university of utah andyale
on some occasions, teams will choose  to use athree guard offense, replacing one of the forwards or the center  with a third guard.
jerec is the leader of the seven dark jedi that the player must face in the game. ...
a further change was soon made, so the ball merely passed through, paving the way for the game we know today.
in 1901,  colleges, including theuniversity of chicago, columbia university, dartmouth  college, university of minnesota, the u.s. naval academy, the university of utah  andyale university began sponsoring men's games.
naismith coached atuniversity of kansas for six years before handing the reins to renowned coachphog allen.
if a team misses the first shot of a two-shot situation, the opposing team must wait for the completion of the second shot before attempting to reclaim possession of the ball and continuing play.
teamwork: fourth class midshipmen lock arms and use ropes made from uniform  items as they brace themselves climbing the herndon monument the united states  naval academy, or usna, is an institution for the undergraduate education of  officers of the united states navy and the united states marine corps. ...
this  article is about the french basketball player. ...
julius winfield erving ii (born february 22, 1950 in roosevelt, new york), commonly known by the nickname dr. j, is a former american basketball player who helped launch a modern style of play that emphasizes leaping and play above the rim. ...
for the cornish sport, see cornish hurling. ...
good dribblers (or "ball handlers") tend to bounce the ball  low to the ground, reducing the travel from the floor to the hand, making it  more difficult for the defender to "steal" the ball.
... in 2001, the nba formed a developmental league, the nbdl.
this article does not cite any references  or sources. ...
this is a chinese name; the family name is yao (å§) yao ming (chinese: ; pinyin: ) (born september 12, 1980, in shanghai, china) is a chinese professional basketball player and is arguably the best center in the national basketball association (nba) today.
the nlb league, also called the adriatic league (previously goodyear adriatic league), is a top-level basketball league that features teams from bosnia and herzegovina, croatia, serbia, montenegro and slovenia, all of which are former republics of sfr yugoslavia. ...
shooting player releases a short jump shot, while her defender  is either knocked down, or trying to "take a charge.
international basketball xx.
alternating possession arrows, and whistle-operated stop-clock systems.
image file history  file links download high resolution version (599x700, 192 kb)
larry joe bird (born december 7, 1956) is a retired american nba basketball player, widely considered one of the greatest players of all time, and one of the best clutch performers in the history of sports. ...
in some countries, basketball is also a popular spectator sport.
womens australian rules football is a team sport. ...
these are most commonly committed by defensive  players; however, they can be committed by offensive players as well.
americas championship is the name commonly used to refer to the american basketball championships that take every two years between national teams of the continents.
basketball was originally played with an association football ball.
6 on 6 basketball or  basquette is a largely-archaic variant of womens basketball. ...
failure to release the ball before returning the feet to the ground is a traveling violation.
in combination with a regular shot, this is called a  "three-point play" because of the basket made at the time of the foul  (2 points) and the additional free throw (1 point).
in sports such as football (soccer), basketball, bandy and water polo, dribbling refers to the maneuvering of a ball around a defender through short skillful taps or kicks with either the legs (football/soccer), hands (basketball), stick (bandy) or swimming strokes (water polo).
... fiba | national basketball association | other leagues
the 2005 nba draft logo the 2005 nba draft  took place on june 28, 2005 in the theatre at madison square garden in new york  city. ...
directory is a web directory which rivals the open directory project in size. ...
this competition has usually been dominated by the united states, whose team has won all but three titles, the first loss in a controversial final game inmunich in 1972 against the soviet union.
if a team surpasses 10 fouls in the half the opposing team is awarded two free throws on all subsequent fouls for the half.
the referee may use discretion in calling fouls (for example, by  considering whether an unfair advantage was gained), sometimes making fouls  controversial calls.
this is a chinese name; the family name  is yao (å§š) yao ming (chinese: ; pinyin: ) (born september 12,  1980, in shanghai, china) is a chinese professional basketball player and is  arguably the best center in the national basketball association (nba) today.
inline hockey is a variation of roller hockey very similar to ice hockey, from which it is derived. ...
failure to release the ball before returning the feet to the  ground is a traveling violation.
hoosiers is also the nickname of indiana university athletic teams; see indiana hoosiers. ...
the player should be positioned facing the basket with feet about shoulder-width apart, knees slightly bent, and back straight.
a national sport is a sport or game that is considered to be a popularly intrinsic part of the culture or is the most popular sport of a country or nation. ...
the harlem globetrotters played up to two hundred games a  year on their national tours.
professional basketball refers to a  number of leagues in which athletes play in sports arenas, on organized teams,  for profit. ...
the original celtics, no relation to the equally famous boston  celtics, were an outstanding barnstorming professional basketball team in the  1920s. ...
steven john nash, obc (born february 7, 1974),[1] is a canadian professional basketball player who plays point guard for the phoenix suns of the national basketball association (nba).
the la fiba africa clubs champions cup is the highest caliber mens basketball competition for clubs, organized by the fiba africa and played by the champions of the leagues of the african countries. ...
for information on the original league that lasted until 1976, see american basketball association (1967-1977).
jonathan other variations include streetball, knockout, and one-on-one; a variation in which two players will use only a small section of the court (often no more than a half of a court) and compete to play the ball into a single hoop.
in the game of basketball, a carrying violation is almost the same as a double dribble. ...
on some occasions, teams will choose to use athree guard offense, replacing one of the forwards or the center with a third guard.
for other uses, see lacrosse  (disambiguation). ...
the korean basketball league or kbl is the professional basketball league of south korea. ...
clara gregory baer is famous for her pioneering role in womens sports. ...
girls playing pesäpallo in siilinjärvi pesäpallo (swedish: boboll, also referred to as finnish baseball) is a fast-moving ball sport thats quite often referred to as the national sport of finland and has some presence in other countries, such as germany, sweden, switzerland, australia, and northern...
the continental basketball association (cba) is a professional mens basketball league in the united states. ...
in the game of basketball, a double dribble is a violation in which a player dribbles (bounces) the ball, clearly holds it with a combination of either one or two hands (while either moving or stationary), and then proceeds to dribble again without first either attempting a field goal or...
the next pass after the rebound is theoutlet pass.
passing see also: assist (basketball) a pass is a method of moving the ball between players.
brick (basketball) is a slang term used in basketball to  describe a shot that misses in a rather dramatic way.
when the shooting arm is stationary for a moment after the ball released, it is known as a follow-through; it is incorporated to maintain accuracy.
additionally, good ball handlers frequently dribble behind their backs, between their legs, and change hands and directions of the dribble frequently, making a less predictable dribbling pattern that is more difficult to defend, this is called a crossover which is the most effective way to pass defenders while dribbling.
while shorter players are often not very good at defending against shooting, their ability to navigate quickly through crowded areas of the court and steal the ball by reaching low are strengths.
hoosier hysteria. ...
the two plays are combined in the pick and roll , in which a player sets a pick and then "rolls" away from the  pick towards the basket.
rugby league football (usually shortened to rugby league, football, league) is a full-contact team sport played with a prolate spheroid-shaped ball by two teams of thirteen on a rectangular grass field.
these rules are designed to promote more offense.
college games use two 20 minute halves while most high school games use  eight minute quarters.
camogie (in irish, camógaíocht) is a celtic team sport, the womens variant of hurling.
dribble dribbling is the act of bouncing the ball continuously, and is a  requirement for a player to take steps with the ball.
an upstart organization, theamerican basketball association, emerged in 1967 and briefly threatened the nba's dominance until the rival leagues merged in 1976.
the states of illinois,  indiana and kentucky are particularly well known for their residents' devotion  to high school basketball, commonly calledhoosier hysteria in indiana; the  critically acclaimed filmhoosiers shows high school basketball's depth  of meaning to these rural communities.
a staple pass is the chest pass.
playing regulations games are played in four quarters of 10 (international) or 12 minutes  (nba).
partially spurred by an association with cheating, the nit lost support to the ncaa tournament.
in the 2004 athens olympics, the united states suffered its first olympic loss while using professional players, falling topuerto rico (in a 19-point loss) and lithuania in group games, and being eliminated in the semifinals byargentina.
a particularly bad shot, or one that only hits the  backboard, is jocularly called abrick.
the premier basketball league is a new league scheduled to begin play in fall 2007.
this article contains a list of developmental and minor sports leagues: two concepts which are largely restricted to north american sports. ...
two-point shots count  as two points and shots from behind the three-point line count three.
ice hockey, known simply as hockey in areas where it is more common than field hockey, is a team sport played on ice. ...
the international basketball federation (fiba, from its french meaning) calculates the world rankings of all of its basketball teams. ...
the university of kansas (often referred to as ku or just kansas) is an institution of higher learning in lawrence, kansas. ...
wnba may also refer to wnba-am, a radio  station in illinois.
a player fouled while attempting a three-point shot, on the other hand, receives three shots.
the mens u19 world championship is a mens under-19 only basketball competition organized by fiba.
basketball is a team sport in which two teams of five active players each try to score points against one another by throwing aball through a 10 feet (3 m) high hoop (the goal) under organized rules.
hinkle, searching for a ball that would be more visible  to players and spectators alike, introduced the orange ball that is now in  common use.
the first men's national championship tournament, the national association of  intercollegiate basketball tournament, which still exists as thenational  association of intercollegiate athletics (naia) tournament, was organized in  1937.
berkeley davis irvine los angeles merced riverside san diego santa barbara santa cruz uc office of the president in oakland the university of california (uc) is a public university system in the state of california.
the five olympic rings were designed in 1913, adopted in 1914 and debuted at the games at antwerp, 1920. ...
the womens national basketball association (wnba) is an organization governing a professional basketball league for women in the united states. ...
guards, for whom physical  coordination and ball-handling skills are crucial, tend to be the smallest  players.
the first balls made specifically for basketball were brown, and it was only in the late 1950s thattony
sheryl denise swoopes (born march  25, 1971) is an american professional basketball player, currently playing for  the houston comets in the womens national basketball association (wnba).
- the amateur athletic union,  widely known as the aau, was formed in united states. ...
this shot requires the player to be in motion toward the basket, and to "lay" the ball "up" and into the basket, typically off the backboard (the backboard-free, underhand version is called afinger roll).
an attempt to unfairly disadvantage an opponent through physical contact is  illegal and is called a foul.
for other uses, see slam dunk  (disambiguation).
the eastern basketball alliance is a professional mens winter basketball league which plays from january through april.
image file history file links basketball. ...
the toronto huskies was a team in the basketball association of america (a forerunner of the national basketball association) during the 1946-1947 season, based in toronto, canada. ...
the ball-handler may not  move both feet without dribbling, known astraveling, nor may he dribble with  both hands or catch the ball in between dribbles, a violation calleddouble  dribbling.
one point is awarded for making a free throw, which is attempted from a line 15 feet (4.5 m) from the basket.
the first national championship for ncaa teams, thenational invitation tournament (nit) in new york, was organized in 1938; the ncaa national tournament would begin one year later.
... the objective of rebounding is to successfully gain possession of the basketball after a missed field goal or free throw, as it rebounds from the hoop or backboard.
ultimate (sometimes called ultimate frisbee in reference to the trademarked brand name) is a non-contact competitive team game played with a 175 gram flying disc. ...
diagram of a canadian football field.
only one member of either team was american, namelycarmelo anthony in 2006.
dartmouth college is a private, coeducational university located in hanover, new hampshire, usa.
soft ball is also a sugar stage softball is a team sport popular around the world but especially in the united states. ...
a limited number of time-outs, clock stoppages requested by a coach  for a short meeting with the players, are allowed.
no player may interfere with the basket or ball on its downward flight  to the basket, or while it is on the rim (or, in the nba, while it is directly  above the basket), a violation known asgoaltending.
for the football player, see abdul-karim al-jabbar. ...
alma mater columbia university is a private university in the united states and a member of the ivy league. ...
another advanced style of passing is the behind-the-back pass which, as the description implies, involves throwing the ball behind the passer's back to a teammate.
a further change  was soon made, so the ball merely passed through, paving the way for the game  we know today.
high marking is a key skill and spectacular attribute of australian rules football precise field and goal kicking using the oval shaped ball is the key skill in australian rules football australian rules football, also known as australian football, aussie rules, or simply football or footy is a code of...
this page is about the movie hoosiers.
... rules and regulations main article: rules of basketball measurements and time limits discussed in this section often vary among  tournaments and organizations; international and nba rules are used in this  section.
dribbling only became a major part of the game  around the 1950s as manufacturing improved the ball shape.
sara giauro shoots a three-point shot,  fiba europe cup for women finals 2007
for the movie, see rounders (film).
the  american basketball association (aba) was a professional basketball league  founded in 1967, and eventually merged, in part, with the national basketball  association (nba).
look up shot in wiktionary, the free dictionary. ...
official language(s) english[1] capital frankfort largest city louisville area ranked
measurements and time limits discussed in this section often vary among tournaments and organizations; international and nba rules are used in this section.
in the days before widespreadtelevision coverage of professional and college sports, the popularity of high school basketball was unrivaled in many parts of america.
the player holds  the ball to rest in the dominant hand's fingertips (the shooting arm) slightly  above the head, with the other hand on the side of the ball.
screens and cuts are very important in offensive plays; these allow the quick passes and teamwork which can lead to a successful basket.
in basketball,  a personal foul is a breach of the rules that concerns illegal personal contact  with an opponent. ...
for the ball used  in this sport, see volleyball (ball). ...
another type of pass is the bounce pass.
the ball is passed directly from the passer's chest to the receiver's chest.
perhaps the single most common variation is the half court game.
... equipment traditional eight-panel basketball a diagram  of afiba basketball court.
for other uses, see polo (disambiguation). ...
this plays a major role in the game, as most possessions end when a team misses a shot.
during the first five decades of basketball's evolution, one guard, two forwards, and two centers or two guards, two forwards, and one center were used.
paul d. tony hinkle (born: december 19, 1899 in logansport, in; died: september 22, 1992) was a basketball coach at butler university in indianapolis/indiana. ...
basketball, netball, dodgeball, volleyball, and lacrosse are the only  ball games which have been identified as being invented by north americans.
this is a list of the mens national basketball teams in the world.
at the professional level, most male players are above 1.90 meters (6 ft 3  in) and most women above 1.70 meters (5 ft 7 in).
this article is about the association. ...
this article is about the sport. ...
if a player is fouled while attempting a shot and the shot is  successful, typically the player will be awarded one additional free throw for  one point.
senda berenson abbott (b. ...
download high resolution version (446x749, 45  kb)larger version of the basketball court. ...
clanbase often abbreviated to cb by gamers is the largest electronic sports league in the world and one of the oldest online gaming leagues in the world. ...
game between illinois state redbirds & ball state cardinals, february 17, 2007 in an espn bracketbuster contest.
the jump shot is taken while in mid-air, near the top of the jump.
incorporated 1852 government  - type mayor-council city   - mayor charles ryan (d) area  - total 33. ...
the opportunity league (montenegrin: opportunity liga) is a regional basketball league played in montenegro. ...
college games use two 20 minute halves while most high school games use eight minute quarters.
substitutions are unlimited but can only be done when  play is stopped.
in basketball, traveling is a violation of the rules that occurs when a  player holding the ball illegally moves one or both of his feet. ...
african championship is the name commonly used to refer to the african basketball championships that take every two years between national teams of the continent.
is the 20th day of the year in the gregorian  calendar. ...
fouls main articles: personal foul, technical foul the  referee signals that a foul has been committed.
the ball can be advanced on the court by bouncing it (dribbling) or passing it between teammates.
for other uses, see munich (disambiguation).
forrest phog allen, d.o. (november 18, 1885 â september 16, 1974) was an american collegiate basketball coach known as the father of basketball coaching. ...
teams also have acoach, who oversees the development and strategies of the team, and other team personnel such as assistant coaches, managers, statisticians, doctors and athletic trainers.
yugoslavia was generally regarded as the second-leading force in  international basketball, behind only the united states of america. ...
for the league that began in 1999, see american basketball association (2000-).
...  nba redirects here. ...
and barnstorming squads such as theoriginal celtics and two all african  american teams, thenew york renaissance five ("rens") and (still in  existenceas of 2006)
... the object of the game is to outscore one's opponents by throwing the ball through the opponents' basket from above while preventing the opponents from doing so on their own.
man to man defense is a type of defensive tactic used in basketball and football (soccer) in which each player is assigned to defend and follow the movements of a single player on offense.
the all-tournament teams at the two most recent fiba
teams almost always have several offensive plays planned to ensure their movement is not predictable.
passing the ball was the primary means of  ball movement.
the fiba world championship (also called the basketball world championship) is a world basketball tournament for mens national teams held quadrennially by the international basketball federation (fiba).
basketball is one of the most popular and widely viewed sports in the world.
year 1893 (mdcccxciii) was a common year  starting on sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the gregorian  calendar (or a common year starting on tuesday of the 12-day slower julian  calendar). ...
an 1859 portrait of  alexander von humboldt by the artist julius schrader, showing mount chimborazo  in the background. ...
jerry alan west (born  may 28, 1938, in chelyan, west virginia) is a retired american basketball  player who played his entire professional career for the nbas los angeles  lakers. ...
the world governing body of wheelchair basketball is the international wheelchair basketball federation[5] (iwbf).
olympic games munich 1972  krešimir ćosić of yugoslavia (blue shirt) vs. petr novicky of  czechoslovakia the international basketball federation was formed in 1932 by eight  founding nations:argentina, czechoslovakia, greece, italy, latvia, portugal,  romania and switzerland.
by 1910, frequent injuries on the men's courts promptedpresident roosevelt to suggest that college basketball form a governing body.
streetballers  at the venice beach basketball courts, california, usa.
however, other amateur sports clubs, colleges, and  professional clubs quickly filled the void.
five players from each team (out of a twelve player roster) may be on the court at one time.
the only players on either team to never have joined the  nba are cameron and papaloukas.
such games tend to emphasize individual dribbling and ball stealing skills over shooting and team play.
it eventually won the bronze  medal defeating lithuania, finishing behind argentina anditaly.
streetball is an urban form of basketball, played on playgrounds and in gymnasiums across the world. ...
like the mens event, the  women’s world championship was created by the international basketball  federation (fiba).
the above descriptions are flexible.
the ideal trajectory of the shot is somewhat arguable, but  generally coaches will profess proper arch.
although there is no direct evidence as yet that the idea of  basketball came from the ancientmesoamerican ballgame, knowledge of that game  had been available for at least 50 years prior to naismith's creation in the  writings ofjohn lloyd stephens and alexander von humboldt.
knicks redirects here.
andrea bargnani, nicknamed il mago (translated to the magician), (born october 26, 1985 in rome, italy) is an italian professional basketball player with the toronto raptors of the national basketball association. ...
the ball is released while over the passer's head.
image file history file linksmetadata no higher resolution available.
the international basketball federation (french: fédération internationale de basketball), more commonly known by the french acronym fiba (pronounced ), is an association of national organizations which governs international competition in basketball.
the  university of utah (also the u or the u of u or the uu), located in salt lake  city, is the flagship public research university in the state of utah, and one  of 10 institutions that make up the utah system of higher education. ...
by 1895, it  was well established at several women's high schools.
note: most high school games do not employ a  shot clock.
wheelchair basketball is a sport played primarily by people with disabilities.
37th - total 40,444 sq mi (104,749 km²) - width 140 miles (225 km) - length 379 miles (610 km) - % water 1. ...
in 1905, the national women's basketball committee'sexecutive committee on basket ball rules was created by the american physical education association.
babe didrikson in  the 1932 olympic javelin competition mildred ella babe didrikson zaharias (june  26, 1911-september 27, american athlete, who excelled in many sports. ...
year 2006 (mmvi) was a common year starting on sunday of the gregorian calendar.
a skilled player can dribble without watching the ball, using the dribbling motion orperipheral vision to keep track of the ball's location.
on scoreboards, this is usually signified with an indicator light reading "bonus" or "penalty" with an illuminated directional arrow indicating that team is to receive free throws when fouled by the opposing team.
image file history file  linksmetadata basketball. ...
the shot clock monument in syracuse, new york a shot clock is  a timer designed to increase the pace (and subsequently, the score) in a  competitive sport.
the first player to reach exactly  21 points wins.
berkeley davis irvine los angeles merced riverside san diego santa barbara  santa cruz uc office of the president in oakland the university of california  (uc) is a public university system in the state of california. ...
in contrast with modern basketball nets, this peach basket retained its bottom, and balls had to be retrieved manually after each "basket" or point scored, this proved inefficient, however, so a hole was drilled into the bottom of the basket, allowing the balls to be poked out with a longdowel each time.
a game of field hockey in progress field hockey is a sport for men, women and children in many countries around the world. ...
smith college is a private, independent womens liberal arts college located in northampton, massachusetts. ... is the 80th day of the year (81st in leap years) in the gregorian calendar. ...
the global popularity of the sport is reflected in the nationalities represented in the nba.
... the first official basketball game was played in the ymca gymnasium on  january 20, 1892 with nine players, on a court just half the size of a  present-daystreetball or national basketball association (nba) court.
this  article is about the region in the united states of america. ...
earl antoine boykins (born june 2, 1976 in cleveland, ohio) is an american professional basketball player currently with the milwaukee bucks of the national basketball association. ...
blatant fouls with excessive contact or that are not  an attempt to play the ball are called unsportsmanlike fouls (or flagrant fouls  in the nba) and typically will result in ejection.
almost all forwards in the men's pro leagues are 2 meters (6 ft 6 in)  or taller.
disruptive physical contact (fouls) is not permitted and there are restrictions on how the ball can be handled (violations).
the  shortest player in the nba today isearl boykins at 5 feet 5 inches (1.65 m).
a steel basket with net and backboard hang over each end of the court.
variations of basketball are activities based on the game of basketball, using common basketball skills and equipment (primarily the ball and basket).
the set shot is taken from a standing position, with neither foot leaving the floor, typically used for free throws.
this article is about the term, slam dunk.
manute bol (born october 16, 1962) is a sudanese-born basketball player and activist. ...
hockey is any of a family of sports in which two teams compete by trying to maneuver a ball, or a hard, round disc called a puck, into the opponents net or goal, using a hockey stick. ...
worldwide, basketball tournaments are held for boys and girls of all age levels.
forrest phog allen,  d.o. (november 18, 1885 â€“ september 16, 1974) was an american  collegiate basketball coach known as the father of basketball coaching. ...
repeated incidents can  result indisqualification.
final results for the  basketball competition at the 1972 summer olympics. ...
the university of kentucky, also referred to as uk,  is a public, co-educational university located in lexington, kentucky. ...
year 1896 (mdcccxcvi) was a leap year starting on wednesday  (link will display calendar). ...
if a team misses the first  shot of a two-shot situation, the opposing team must wait for the completion of  the second shot before attempting to reclaim possession of the ball and  continuing play.
another advanced style of passing is the behind-the-back pass which, as the description implies, involves throwing the ball behind the  passer's back to a teammate.
the league  currently has eight teams, but added seven more for the 2006-2007 season.
zone defense is a type of defense used in sports which is the  alternative to man-to-man defense; instead of each player guarding a  corresponding player on the other team, each defensive player is given an area,  or a zone, to cover. ...
a jump ball is the method used to begin play in basketball. ...
for the animated television series, see harlem  globetrotters (tv series). ...
wellesley is the name of various places in the world including: wellesley, massachusetts wellesley college is a private college in wellesley, massachusetts. ...
other variations include children's games, contests or activities meant to help players reinforce skills.
fiba dropped the distinction between amateur and professional players  in 1989, and in 1992, professional players played for the first time in the  olympic games.
wilton norman wilt chamberlain (august 21, 1936âoctober 12, 1999), nicknamed wilt the stilt and the big dipper, was an american professional national basketball association (nba) basketball player for the philadelphia / san francisco warriors, the philadelphia 76ers and the los angeles lakers; and also played for the harlem globetrotters. ...
the five tactical basketball positions normally employed by organized basketball teams are: point guard, shooting guard, small forward, power forward, and center.
half-court games also raise the number of players  that can use a court, an important benefit when many players want to play.
final four redirects here.
uk official languages english  membership 53 sovereign states leaders  -  queen elizabeth ii   -  secretary-general kamalesh sharma appointed 24 november 2007  establishment  -  balfour declaration 18 november 1926    -  statute of westminster 11 december 1931   -   london declaration 28 april 1949  area  -  total...
in early december 1891, dr. james naismith,[1] a canadian physical  education student and instructor atymca training school[2] (today, springfield  college) in springfield, massachusetts, usa, sought a vigorous indoor game to  keep his students occupied and at proper levels of fitness during the longnew  england winters.
luol deng (born april 16, 1985 in wau, sudan) is a british professional basketball player for the national basketball associations chicago bulls, where he plays small forward. ...
stool ball is a historical ball game, originating in southern england, where variants are still played in some schools.
paul d. tony hinkle (born: december 19,  1899 in logansport, in; died: september 22, 1992) was a basketball coach at  butler university in indianapolis/indiana.
and the intercollegiate athletic association of the  united states (iaaus) was created.
match fixing or game fixing in organized sports  occurs when a match is played to a completely or partially pre-determined  result. ...
jerec is a fictional character of the star wars universe, appearing in the computer game jedi knight: dark forces ii.
screens and cuts are very important in offensive  plays; these allow the quick passes and teamwork which can lead to a successful  basket.
summary taken by  gunnar freyr steinsson, january 21st 2006. ...
whenever a person got the ball in the basket, they would give their team a point.
the national federation of state high school associations (or nfhs) is the body which oversees and governs most high school interscholastic athletics and extracirriculars in the united states at the national level. ...
image file history file links download high resolution version (599x700, 192 kb)
when a shot is missed, if one of the other players tips the ball in with two while it is in the air, the score of the player who missed the shot goes back to zero, or if they have surpassed 13, their score goes back to 13.
according to a  survey given to all nba teams, the average height of all nba players is just  under 6 ft 7 in (2.01 m), with the average weight being close to 222 lb (101  kg).
official language(s) english[1] capital springfield largest city chicago largest metro area chicago metropolitan area area
teams exchange baskets for the second half.
to dribble, a player  pushes the ball down towards the ground rather than patting it; this ensures  greater control.
this is called a "tip".
2006 is a common year starting on sunday of the gregorian calendar. ...
only one basket is used, and the ball must be  "cleared" - passed or dribbled outside the half-court or three-point
... games are played in four quarters of 10 (international) or 12 minutes (nba).
if a player is fouled while attempting a shot and the shot is successful, typically the player will be awarded one additional free throw for one point.
the crucial aspect of any good pass is being impossible to intercept.
a violation of these rules results in loss of possession, or, if committed by the defense, a reset of theshot clock .
... women's basketball began in 1892 at smith college when senda berenson, a physical education teacher, modified naismith's rules for women.
players from all over the globe can be found in nba teams.
the  shooting guard (sg), also known as the two or off guard,[1] is one of five  traditional positions on a basketball team. ...
theodoros papaloukas  (greek:  î˜îµïœî´ï‰ïî¿ï‚  î î±ï€î±î»î¿ï…îºî¬ï‚;  born may 8, 1977) is a greek top professional basketball player who has been  playing for cska moscow since june 2002.
jonathan other variations include streetball, knockout, and one-on-one; a  variation in which two players will use only a small section of the court  (often no more than a half of a court) and compete to play the ball into a  single hoop.
nickname: location in hampden county in  massachusetts coordinates: , country state county hampden settled 1636
water basketball is a water sport which mixes rules of basketball and water polo.
women's basketball was added to the olympics in 1976, with teams such as  brazil andaustralia rivaling the american squads.
smith college is a private, independent womens liberal arts college located in northampton, massachusetts. ...
"basket ball", the name suggested by one of naismith's students, was  popular from the beginning.
naismith was instrumental in establishing college basketball.
this article is about the region in the united states of america. ...
suzanne brigit bird (born october 16, 1980) is a professional womens basketball player. ...
the ball may not be kicked nor struck with the fist.
common techniques and practices positions and structures basketball positions in the offensive  zone
the new york renaissance, also known as the rens, were an all-black  professional basketball team founded in 1922, a few years before the harlem  globetrotters. ...
this  provides much greater power and range, and it also allows the player to elevate  over the defender.
dribbling a u.s. naval academy ("navy") player,  left, posts up a u.s. military academy ("army") defender main article:
beach basketball is played in a circular court with no backboard on the goal, no out-of-bounds rule with the ball movement to be done via passes or 2 1/2 steps, as dribbling is not allowed.[6] wheelchair basketball is a sport played primarily by people with disabilities.
dirk werner nowitzki (ipa pronunciation: ) (born june 19, 1978 in würzburg, germany) is a german basketball player for the united states national basketball associations (nba) dallas mavericks. ...
the fiba world championship (also called the basketball world championship)
in 1892, university of california and miss head's school, played the  first women's inter-institutional game.
while variation is possible in the dimensions of the court and backboard, it is considered important for the basket to be of the correct height; a rim that is off by but a few inches can have an adverse effect on shooting.
wheelchair basketball is played on specially designed wheelchairs for  the physically impaired.
jerec is  the leader of the seven dark jedi that the player must face in the game. ...
andrés marcelo nocioni (last name pronounced no-cee-oh-nee) (born november 30, 1979 in santa fe, argentina) is a basketball player for the nbas chicago bulls, and the argentine national team. ...
... the international basketball federation was formed in 1932 by eight founding nations:argentina, czechoslovakia, greece, italy, latvia, portugal, romania and switzerland.
summary taken by gunnar freyr steinsson, january 21st 2006.
john lloyd stephens in 1839 john lloyd stephens (november 28, 1805âoctober 13, 1852) was an american explorer, writer, and diplomat.
george  lawrence mikan, jr. ...
an 1859 portrait of alexander von humboldt by the artist julius schrader, showing mount chimborazo in the background.
... look up football in wiktionary, the free dictionary.
year 1893 (mdcccxciii) was a common year starting on sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the gregorian calendar (or a common year starting on tuesday of the 12-day slower julian calendar).
professional athletes are distinguished from amateur athletes by virtue of being paid. ...
... college basketball was rocked by gambling scandals from 1948 to 1951,  when dozens of players from top teams were implicated inmatch fixing and point  shaving.
... 6 on 6 basketball or basquette is a largely-archaic variant of womens basketball.
springfield college is a college located in  springfield, massachusetts. ...
if a team surpasses a preset limit of team fouls in a given period  (quarter or half) – four for nba and international games – the  opposing team is awarded one or two free throws on all subsequent fouls for  that period, the number depending on the league.
by 1938, the women's national championship  changed from a three-court game to two-court game with six players per team.
points are scored by shooting the ball through the basket from above; the team with more points at the end of the game wins.
the five tactical  basketball positions normally employed by organized basketball teams are: point  guard, shooting guard, small forward, power forward, and center.
a game of broomball begins with a face-off broomball is a popular recreational ice sport originating in canada and played around the world. ...
a shot that misses both the rim and the backboard completely is  referred to as anair ball.
match fixing or game fixing in organized sports occurs when a match is played to a completely or partially pre-determined result.
when dribbling past an opponent, the dribbler should dribble with the hand farthest from the opponent, making it more difficult for the defensive player to get to the ball.
this article is  about the oldest and largest campus of the university of minnesota. ...
the two most common shots that use the above described set up are the set shot and the jump shot.
roller hockey is a form of hockey played on a dry surface using skates with wheels.
anthony  "spud" webb was just 5 feet 7 inches (1.70 m) tall, but had a 42-inch  (1.07 m) vertical leap, giving him significant height when jumping.
other short players have thrived at the pro level.
dribbling was not part of the original game except for the "bounce pass" to teammates.
the chicago bulls are a professional basketball team based in  chicago, illinois. ...
the 2002 team featured nowitzki,  ginobili,peja stojakovic of yugoslavia (now of serbia), yao ming of china, and  pero cameron of new zealand.
this article is about the professional basketball player. ...
if a player is fouled while attempting a shot and the shot is unsuccessful, the player is awarded a number of free throws equal to the value of the attempted shot.
the cleveland cavaliers (also known as the cavs) are a professional basketball team based in cleveland, ohio. ...
kobe bryant (born august 23, 1978) is an  american all-star shooting guard in the national basketball association who  plays for the los angeles lakers. ...
at this time, the organization only oversaw amateur
the  circulatory system or cardiovascular system is the organ system which  circulates blood around the body of most animals. ...
a steel basket with net and backboard hang over each  end of the court.
... a regulation basketball court in international games is 28 by 15 meters (approx.
for the womens tournament, see fiba asia championship for women. ...
... college basketball was rocked by gambling scandals from 1948 to 1951, when dozens of players from top teams were implicated inmatch fixing and point shaving.
...  the toronto huskies was a team in the basketball association of america (a  forerunner of the national basketball association) during the 1946-1947 season,  based in toronto, canada. ...
year 1946 (mcmxlvi) was a common year starting on tuesday (link will display full 1946 calendar) of the gregorian calendar. ...
the same year, mount holyoke and sophie newcomb college  (coached byclara gregory baer) women began playing basketball.
one point is awarded for making a free throw,  which is attempted from a line 15 feet (4.5 m) from the basket.
a soccer ball was used to shoot goals.
the 2002 fiba world championship was an international basketball  tournament held by the international basketball federation in indianapolis,  indiana, usa from august 29 to september 8, 2002. ...
by 1895, the  game had spread to colleges across the country, includingwellesley, vassar and  bryn mawr.
the naia  mens basketball national championship has been held yearly since 1937, when it  was established by james naismith, to crown a national champion for smaller  colleges and universities. ...
stephen's works  especially, which included drawings byfrederick catherwood, were available at  most educational institutions in the 19th century and also had wide popular  circulation.
a pass is a method of moving the ball between players.
image  file history file linksmetadata basketball. ...
good passers can pass the ball with great accuracy and touch and know exactly  where each of their teammates like to receive the ball.
zydrunas ilgauskas (born june 5, 1975 in kaunas, lithuania) is a basketball player for the cleveland cavaliers and one of the top centers in the nbas eastern conference. ...
a child demonstrating sepak takraw.
a player fouled while attempting a regular two-point shot, then, receives two shots.
line - each time possession of the ball changes from one team to the other.
knicks redirects here. ...
modern indoor  gymnasium with pull-down basketball hoops. ...
naismith's disciple amos alonzo stagg brought  basketball to theuniversity of chicago, while adolph rupp, a student of  naismith's at kansas, enjoyed great success as coach at theuniversity of  kentucky.
the table officials are responsible for  keeping track of each teams scoring, timekeeping, individual and teamfouls,  player substitutions, teampossession arrow, and the shot clock.
is a world basketball tournament for mens national teams held quadrennially by the international basketball federation (fiba).
image file history file links download  high resolution version (500x750, 95 kb)caption: 040130-n-6213r-014 u.s. naval  academy, annapolis, md. ...
fiba oceania championship is the name commonly used to refer to the oceanian basketball championships that take every two years between national teams of the continent.
the international womens sports federation held an olympic-style games, in 1922, in paris. ...
fiba oceania is a zone within the fiba association which contains all 21 national oceania fiba federations.
is the 80th day of the year (81st in leap  years) in the gregorian calendar. ...
2006 is a common year starting on sunday of the gregorian  calendar. ...
the most commonly interchanged positions are point guard and shooting guard, especially if both players have good leadership and ball handling skills.
these rules called for six to nine players per team and 11 officials.
futsal in germany futsal is an indoor version of football (soccer).
today the nba is the top professional basketball league in the world in terms of popularity, salaries, talent, and level of competition.
therefore,  games generally take much longer to complete than the allotted game time,  typically about two hours.
the chicago bulls are a professional basketball team based in chicago, illinois. ...
players  who are fouled either receive the ball to pass inbounds again, or receive one  or morefree throws if they are fouled in the act of shooting, depending on  whether the shot was successful.
image file history file links download high-resolution version  (1217x1504, 627 kb)
the first basketball court: springfield college.
having no offical mascot, the athletic teams  at stanford university are referred to as stanford cardinal. ...
otherprofessional women's basketball leagues in the  united states, such as the american basketball league (1996-1998), have folded  in part because of the popularity of thewnba.
in sports, a coach or  manager is an individual involved in the direction and instruction of the  on-field operations of an athletic team or of individual athletes.
manute bol (born october  16, 1962) is a sudanese-born basketball player and activist. ...
variations of basketball are games or activities  based on or similar to the game of basketball, in which the player utilizes  common basketball skills. ...
though it had an insecure opening season, several marquee players (sheryl  swoopes, lisa leslie and sue bird among others) helped the league's popularity  and level of competition.
in basketball, a personal foul is a breach of the rules that concerns illegal personal contact with an opponent. ...
ginobili also made the 2006 team; the other members were anthony, gasol, hisspanish teammate jorge garbajosa and theodoros papaloukas of greece.
download high resolution version (446x749, 45 kb)larger version of the basketball court. ...
brick (basketball) is a slang term used in basketball to describe a shot that misses in a rather dramatic way.
guards, for whom physical coordination and ball-handling skills are crucial, tend to be the smallest players.
asia is a zone within the international basketball federation (fiba) which contains all 44 asian fiba federations. ...
world  championships, held in 2002 in indianapolis and 2006 in japan, demonstrate the  globalization of the game equally dramatically.
as long as the runner maintains contact with this marker, he or she is safe from the other...
this article needs additional references or sources for  verification.
stanford  women playedberkeley, 9-on-9, ending in a 2-1 stanford victory.
at this time, the organization only oversaw amateur players.
this is an article about the  national basketball association team; for the defunct world football league  team, see memphis southmen. ...
berenson's freshmen played the  sophomore class in the first women's collegiate basketball game atsmith college, march 21, 1893.
in 1946, the basketball association of america (baa) was formed, organizing the top professional teams and leading to greater popularity of the professional game.
the first official basketball game was played in the ymca gymnasium on january 20, 1892 with nine players, on a court just half the size of a present-daystreetball or national basketball association (nba) court.
"basket ball", the name suggested by one of naismith's students, was popular from the beginning.
jerry alan west (born may 28, 1938, in chelyan, west virginia) is a retired american basketball player who played his entire professional career for the nbas los angeles lakers. ...
players jumped from team to team and teams played in armories and smoky dance halls.
the amateur athletic union, widely known as the aau, was formed in  united states. ...
in basketball, a technical foul is an infraction of the  rules usually concerning unsportsmanlike non-contact behavior. ...
a proper chest pass involves  an outward snap of the thumbs to add velocity and leaves the defense little  time to react.
in contrast with modern  basketball nets, this peach basket retained its bottom, and balls had to be  retrieved manually after each "basket" or point scored, this proved  inefficient, however, so a hole was drilled into the bottom of the basket,  allowing the balls to be poked out with a longdowel each time.
this is called ano-look pass.
at almost all levels of competition, the top of the rim is  exactly 10 feet (3.05 m) above the court and 4 feet (1.2 m) inside the  baseline.
there were hundreds of men's professional basketball teams in towns and cities all over the united states and little organization of the professional game.
although some players can perform them effectively, many coaches discourage no-look or behind-the-back passes, believing them to be fundamentally unsound, difficult to control, and more likely to result in turnovers or violations.
a team made entirely of nba players  finished sixth in the 2002 world championships inindianapolis, behind yugoslavia ,argentina, germany, new zealand and spain.
summary  taken by gunnar freyr steinsson, january 21st 2006.
the national invitation tournament (nit) is a mens college basketball tournament operated by the national collegiate athletic association. ...
chicago bulls star forward luol deng is a sudanese refugee who settled ingreat britain; steve nash, who won the 2005 and 2006 nba mvp award , iscanadian; kobe bryant is an american who spent much of his childhood in italy; dallas mavericks superstar and 2007 nba mvp dirk nowitzki is german; all-starpau gasol of the memphis grizzlies is from spain; 2005 nba draft top overall pickandrew bogut of the milwaukee bucks is australian; 2006 nba draft top overall pickandrea bargnani of the toronto raptors is from italy; houston rockets center yao ming is from china; cleveland cavaliers big man zydrunas ilgauskas is lithuanian; and the san antonio spurs feature tim duncan of the u.s. virgin islands, manu ginobili of argentina (like chicago bulls player andrés nocioni) andtony parker of france.
... the only essential equipment in basketball is the basketball and the court: a flat, rectangular surface with baskets at opposite ends.
water basketball,  played in a swimming pool, merges basketball and water polo rules.
vassar, michigan is a place in the state of michigan in the  united states of america. ...
the national association of intercollegiate athletics (better known as the naia) traces its roots to the national association of intercollegiate basketball. ...
other ball games, such asbaseball and canadian football, have commonwealth of nations, european, asian or african connections.
the all american red heads was one of the  first professional women’s basketball teams. ...
the tallest current nba player isyao ming, who stands at 2.26 m (7 ft 6 in).
for other uses, see ball (disambiguation).
women's basketball was added to the olympics in 1976, with teams such as brazil andaustralia rivaling the american squads.
the  bounce pass takes longer to complete than the chest pass, but it is also harder  for the opposing team to intercept (kicking the ball deliberately is a  violation).
tyrone curtis bogues (born january 9, 1965, in baltimore, maryland), better known as muggsy bogues, is a retired american professional basketball point guard and former head coach of the now-defunct charlotte sting of the womens national basketball association (wnba).
since the 1980s, more specific positions  have evolved, namely: image file history file links basketball_positions. ...
while competitive basketball is carefully regulated, numerousvariations of basketball have developed for casual play.
jerec is a fictional character of the star wars  universe, appearing in the computer game jedi knight: dark forces ii.
... the nba has featured many famous players, including george mikan, the  first dominating "big man"; ball-handling wizardbob cousy and  defensive geniusbill russell of the boston celtics; wilt chamberlain, who  originally played for the barnstormingharlem globetrotters; all-around stars  oscar robertson and jerry west; more recent big men kareem abdul-jabbar and  karl malone; playmaker john stockton; crowd-pleasing forward julius erving;  european starsdirk nowitzki and drazen petrovic and the three players who many  credit with ushering the professional game to its highest level of popularity: larry bird, earvin "magic" johnson, and michael jordan.
(some scoreboards also indicate the number of  fouls committed.)
... a regulation basketball court in international games is 28 by 15  meters (approx.
official logo the winner, spain, is being celebrated the 2006 fiba world championship was an international basketball competition hosted by japan from august 19 to september 3, 2006. ...
during the first five decades of basketball's  evolution, one guard, two forwards, and two centers or two guards, two  forwards, and one center were used.
in sports, an ejection is a disqualifying action assessed to a player or coach by a game official (such as a referee or umpire), usually for unsportsmanlike conduct. ...
most centers are over 2.1 meters (6 ft 10 in) tall.
... another common shot is called the layup.
for other uses, see slam dunk (disambiguation).
naismith called the new game 'basket ball'.[4] duck on a rock was a medieval children’s game.
the ball must stay within the court; the last team to touch the ball  before it travels out of bounds forfeits possession.
repeated incidents can result indisqualification.
here, the passer bounces the ball crisply about two-thirds of the way from his own chest to the receiver.
this shot requires the  player to be in motion toward the basket, and to "lay" the ball  "up" and into the basket, typically off the backboard (the  backboard-free, underhand version is called afinger roll).
during the first decades of the 20th century, basketball quickly became the ideal interscholastic sport due to its modest equipment and personnel requirements.
ballcourt at monte alban ballcourt at uaxactun the mesoamerican ballgame[1] was a sport with ritual associations played for over 3000 years by the peoples of mesoamerica in pre-columbian times. ...
lisa leslie (born july 7, 1972 in gardena, california) is a womens national basketball association player currently playing for the los angeles sparks.
predrag peja stojakoviä
a jump ball is the method used to begin play in  basketball. ...
for the animated television series, see harlem globetrotters (tv series).
... the nba has featured many famous players, including george mikan, the first dominating "big man"; ball-handling wizardbob cousy and defensive geniusbill russell of the boston celtics; wilt chamberlain, who originally played for the barnstormingharlem globetrotters; all-around stars oscar robertson and jerry west; more recent big men kareem abdul-jabbar and karl malone; playmaker john stockton; crowd-pleasing forward julius erving; european starsdirk nowitzki and drazen petrovic and the three players who many credit with ushering the professional game to its highest level of popularity: larry bird, earvin "magic" johnson, and michael jordan.
basketball  federation of serbia the serbia national basketball team represents serbia in  international basketball matches. ...
the naia mens basketball national championship has been held yearly since 1937, when it was established by james naismith, to crown a national champion for smaller colleges and universities. ...
the calling of fouls can vary between games, leagues and  even between referees.
the philippine basketball association (pba) is a professional basketball league in the philippines founded in 1975.
three seasons later, in 1949, the baa became thenational basketball association (nba).
national basketball association main article: national basketball association
the toronto raptors are a professional basketball  team based in toronto, ontario. ...
women's basketball began in 1892 at smith college when senda berenson,  a physical education teacher, modified naismith's rules for women.
basket  ball'.[4] duck on a rock was a medieval children’s game.
the outlet pass occurs after a team gets a defensive rebound.
download high resolution  version (446x749, 45 kb)larger version of the basketball court. ...
when a shot is  missed, if one of the other players tips the ball in with two while it is in  the air, the score of the player who missed the shot goes back to zero, or if  they have surpassed 13, their score goes back to 13.
the san antonio spurs are an american professional basketball  team based in san antonio, texas. ...
the shortest player in the nba today isearl boykins at 5 feet 5 inches (1.65 m).
webb playing for the atlanta hawks. ...
most passes are  accompanied by a step forward to increase power and are followed through with  the hands to ensure accuracy.
at almost all levels of competition, the top of the rim is exactly 10 feet (3.05 m) above the court and 4 feet (1.2 m) inside the baseline.
“ebl” redirects here. ...
... image file history file links commons-logo.
the tallest players ever in the nba weremanute bol and gheorghe  mureşan, who were both 2.31 m (7 ft 7 in) tall.
an attempt to score in this way is called ashot.
a shot that misses both the rim and the backboard completely is referred to as anair ball.
the number of free throws awarded increases with the number of fouls committed.
the circus shot is a low-percentage shot that is flipped, heaved, scooped, or  flung toward the hoop while the shooter is off-balance, airborne, falling down,  and/or facing away from the basket.
naismith  coached atuniversity of kansas for six years before handing the reins to  renowned coachphog allen.
handball player leaps towards the goal prior to throwing the ball, while the goalkeeper extends himself trying to stop it. ...
olympic games munich 1972 - kresimir  cosic (yugoslavia) vs. ...
only one member of either team  was american, namelycarmelo anthony in 2006.
through time, basketball has developed to involve common techniques of shooting, passing and dribbling, as well as players' positions, and offensive and defensive structures.
the university of kentucky, also referred to as uk, is a public, co-educational university located in lexington, kentucky. ...
the pick and roll (also  called screen and roll or shortened to screen-roll) in basketball, is an  offensive play in which a player sets a screen (pick) for a teammate handling  the ball and then slips behind the defender (rolls) to accept a pass.
by 1938, the women's national championship changed from a three-court game to two-court game with six players per team.
a fiba-sanctioned basketball court, with the key located as the  trapezoid nearest to the basket.
a player fouled while attempting a regular two-point  shot, then, receives two shots.
basketball federation of serbia the serbia national basketball team represents serbia in international basketball matches. ...
whenever a person got the  ball in the basket, they would give their team a point.
three seasons  later, in 1949, the baa became thenational basketball association (nba).
if a missed shot is "tipped" in, but the player who  tips it in only uses one hand, then the player who shot it is out of the game  and has to catch an air ball to get back in.
the 2002 team featured nowitzki, ginobili,peja stojakovic of yugoslavia (now of serbia), yao ming of china, and pero cameron of new zealand.
in man-to-man defense, each  defensive player guards a specific opponent and tries to prevent him from  taking action.
it eventually won the bronze medal defeating lithuania, finishing behind argentina anditaly.
... there are two main defensive strategies: zone defense and man-to-man defense.
the bounce pass takes longer to complete than the chest pass, but it is also harder for the opposing team to intercept (kicking the ball deliberately is a violation).
ncaa redirects here. ...
blatant fouls with excessive contact or that are not an attempt to play the ball are called unsportsmanlike fouls (or flagrant fouls in the nba) and typically will result in ejection.
the shooting guard (sg), also known as the two or off guard,[1] is one of five traditional positions on a basketball team. ...
a proper chest pass involves an outward snap of the thumbs to add velocity and leaves the defense little time to react.
by  not having to focus on the ball, a player can look for teammates or scoring  opportunities, as well as avoid the danger of someone stealing the ball from  him/her.
competitive levels require the use of more equipment such as clocks, scoresheets, scoreboard(s), alternating possession arrows, and whistle-operated stop-clock systems.
the all american red heads was one of the first professional women’s basketball teams.
by 1910, frequent injuries on  the men's courts promptedpresident roosevelt to suggest that college basketball  form a governing body.
by 1895, the game had spread to colleges across the country, includingwellesley, vassar and bryn mawr.
here, the passer  bounces the ball crisply about two-thirds of the way from his own chest to the  receiver.
the toronto raptors are a professional basketball team based in toronto, ontario. ...
a limited number of time-outs, clock stoppages requested by a coach for a short meeting with the players, are allowed.
the rules of basketball are the  rules and regulations that govern the play, officiating, equipment and  procedures of basketball. ...
fluted wood dowel dowel joint a dowel is a pin, usually made of wood, plastic or metal, used to secure two objects together.
the commonwealth of nations as of 2007 headquarters marlborough house, london, uk official languages english membership 53 sovereign states leaders - queen elizabeth ii - secretary-general kamalesh sharma appointed 24 november 2007
sather tower (the campanile) looking out over the san francisco bay and mount tamalpais. ...
dartmouth college is a private, coeducational  university located in hanover, new hampshire, usa.
the cleveland cavaliers (also known as the cavs)  are a professional basketball team based in cleveland, ohio. ...
for other uses, see university of chicago (disambiguation).
the ball is passed directly  from the passer's chest to the receiver's chest.
the overhead pass is used to pass the ball over a defender.
a player's hand cannot be under the ball while dribbling; doing so is known ascarrying the ball.
on court, the point guard is usually  responsible for indicating which play will occur.
tyrone curtis bogues (born january 9,  1965, in baltimore, maryland), better known as muggsy bogues, is a retired  american professional basketball point guard and former head coach of the  now-defunct charlotte sting of the womens national basketball association  (wnba). ...
fiba dropped the distinction between amateur and professional players in 1989, and in 1992, professional players played for the first time in the olympic games.
the american basketball league of 1996 was an attempt to establish an independent professional basketball league for women in the united states. ...
for other uses of pba, see pba.
fifteen minutes are allowed for a half-time break, and two minutes are allowed at the other breaks.
basketball's popularity remains high, both in rural areas where they carry the identification of the entire community, as well as at some larger schools known for their basketball teams where many players go on to participate at higher levels of competition after graduation.
most courts are made of wood.
basketball was first included in the olympic games in 1936, although a  demonstration tournament was held in 1904.
the fiba world  championship (also called the basketball world championship) is a world  basketball tournament for mens national teams held quadrennially by the  international basketball federation (fiba).
a legal  attempt by an offensive player to stop an opponent from guarding a teammate, by  standing in the defender's way such that the teammate cuts next to him, is a screen or pick.
a five-time winner of the nba most valuable player award and a twelve-time all-star, the 6 ft 9 in russell was the...
passing the ball was the primary means of ball movement.
they generally last no  longer than one minute unless, for televised games, a commercial break is  needed.
players wear high-top sneakers that provide extra ankle support.
a quick movement by an offensive player without the ball to gain an advantageous position is acut.
only one basket is used, and the ball must be "cleared" - passed or dribbled outside the half-court or three-point line - each time possession of the ball changes from one team to the other.
this article is about the basketball tournament. ...
the international basketball federation (french: fédération internationale de basketball), more commonly known by the french acronym fiba (pronounced ), is an association of national organizations which governs international competition in basketball. ...
the houston rockets are an american  professional basketball team based in houston, texas. ...
the 2006 nba draft was held on june 28 at the theatre at madison square garden in new york city. ...
to dribble, a player pushes the ball down towards the ground rather than patting it; this ensures greater control.
zone defense is a type of defense used in sports which is the alternative to man-to-man defense; instead of each player guarding a corresponding player on the other team, each defensive player is given an area, or a zone, to cover. ...
this is a chinese name; the family name is yao (å§) yao ming (chinese: ; pinyin: ) (born september 12, 1980, in shanghai, china) is a chinese professional basketball player and is arguably the best center in the national basketball association (nba) today. ...
the boston celtics are a professional basketball team based in boston, massachusetts. ...
the ball may be advanced toward the basket by being shot, passed between players, thrown, tapped, rolled or dribbled (bouncing the ball while running).
for other persons named  michael jordan, see michael jordan (disambiguation).
is a world basketball tournament for mens  national teams held quadrennially by the international basketball federation  (fiba).
... today virtually every high school in the united states fields a basketball team invarsity competition.
shooting is the act of attempting to score points by throwing the ball through the basket.
this is a chinese name; the family name is  yao (å§š) yao ming (chinese: ; pinyin: ) (born september 12,  1980, in shanghai, china) is a chinese professional basketball player and is  arguably the best center in the national basketball association (nba) today.
gheorghe  dumitru mureşan (ipa: /gi. ...
this article or section does not cite any references or sources.
the united states' dominance continued with the introduction of theirdream team.
the world governing body of wheelchair basketball is  the international wheelchair basketball federation[5] (iwbf).
therefore, games generally take much longer to complete than the allotted game time, typically about two hours.
indianapolis redirects here. ...
players often try to put a steady backspin on the ball to deaden its impact with the rim.
the circulatory system or cardiovascular system is the organ system which circulates blood around the body of most animals. ...
if they go over, their score goes back to 13.
year 1892 (mdcccxcii) was a leap year starting on friday (link will display the full calendar) of the gregorian calendar (or a leap year starting on wednesday of the 12-day slower julian calendar).
jorge garbajosa chaparro jr. ...
a jump shot being taken at the fiba eurocup  women finals in 2005.
in basketball, an air ball is any shot that misses the basket completely and does not hit either the net, rim, or backboard.
the circus shot is a low-percentage shot that is flipped, heaved, scooped, or flung toward the hoop while the shooter is off-balance, airborne, falling down, and/or facing away from the basket.
like the mens event, the women’s world championship was created by the international basketball federation (fiba).
basketball has been played consistently at the summer olympic games since 1936, with a demonstration event in 1904.
additionally,  good ball handlers frequently dribble behind their backs, between their legs,  and change hands and directions of the dribble frequently, making a less  predictable dribbling pattern that is more difficult to defend, this is called  a crossover which is the most effective way to pass defenders while dribbling.
this article does not cite any references or sources. ...
if a missed shot is "tipped" in, but the player who tips it in only uses one hand, then the player who shot it is out of the game and has to catch an air ball to get back in.
leagues came and went.
national  association of intercollegiate athletics womens basketball championship  division i the naia national womens basketball championship is held in  jackson,tn and is played at oman arena. ...
today the nba is the top professional basketball league in the world in terms  of popularity, salaries, talent, and level of competition.
the game is controlled by the officials consisting of the referee ("crew chief" in the nba), one or two umpires ("referees" in the nba) and the table officials.
andrés marcelo nocioni (last name pronounced  no-cee-oh-nee) (born november 30, 1979 in santa fe, argentina) is a basketball  player for the nbas chicago bulls, and the argentine national team. ...
wilton norman wilt chamberlain (august 21,  1936â€“october 12, 1999), nicknamed wilt the stilt and the big  dipper, was an american professional national basketball association (nba)
a team made entirely of nba players finished sixth in the 2002 world championships inindianapolis, behind yugoslavia ,argentina, germany, new zealand and spain.
while shorter players are often not very good at defending against shooting,  their ability to navigate quickly through crowded areas of the court and steal  the ball by reaching low are strengths.
nickname: location in hampden county in massachusetts coordinates: , country state county hampden settled 1636 incorporated 1852 government - type mayor-council city - mayor charles ryan (d) area - total 33. ...
in basketball, the basketball court is the playing surface,  consisting of a rectangular floor with baskets at either end. ...
the united  states mens national basketball team is the representative for the united  states of america in international mens basketball. ...
in the game of basketball,  a carrying violation is almost the same as a double dribble. ...
streetballers at the venice beach  basketball courts, california, usa.
james a.  naismith,(november 6, 1861 â€“ november 28, 1939) was the  inventor of the sport of basketball and the first to introduce the use of a  helmet in american football. ...
stephen's works especially, which included drawings byfrederick catherwood, were available at most educational institutions in the 19th century and also had wide popular circulation.
peripheral vision is a part of vision that occurs outside the very center of gaze. ...
the golden cyclones were a 1930s group of women athletes who played aau softball, basketball and track-and-field. ...
george lawrence mikan, jr. ...
william felton bill russell (born february 12, 1934) is a retired american professional basketball player who played center for the boston celtics of the nba.
dražen petroviä, playing for the new jersey nets. ...
the 2005 nba draft logo the 2005 nba draft took place on june 28, 2005 in the theatre at madison square garden in new york city. ...
fiba africa is a zone within the fiba association which contains all 53 national african fiba federations, it was founded in 1961. ...
hinkle, searching for a ball that would be more visible to players and spectators alike, introduced the orange ball that is now in common use.
according to a survey given to all nba teams, the average height of all nba players is just under 6 ft 7 in (2.01 m), with the average weight being close to 222 lb (101 kg).
robert joseph cousy (born august 9, 1928 in new york  city, is an american former professional basketball player, who played point  guard with the nbas boston celtics from 1951 to 1963 and (briefly) with the  cincinnati royals in the 1969-1970 season, being recognized as one of the  greatest...
the time allowed is actual playing time; the clock is stopped while the play is not active.
variations of basketball are games or activities based on or similar to the game of basketball, in which the player utilizes common basketball skills. ...
... another shot that is becoming common is the "circus shot".
the international basketball  federation (french: fédération internationale de basketball),  more commonly known by the french acronym fiba (pronounced ), is an association  of national organizations which governs international competition in  basketball.
players jumped from team to  team and teams played in armories and smoky dance halls.
the dallas mavericks (also known as the mavs) are an nba basketball team based in dallas, texas. ...
in the us college game if a team surpasses 7 fouls in the half the opposing team is awarded a one-and-one free throw (make the first you have a chance at a second).
on court, the point guard is usually responsible for indicating which play will occur.
... there are many variations as well played in informal settings without referees or strict rules.
... is the 317th day of the year (318th in leap years) in the gregorian calendar. ...
the dallas mavericks (also known as the  mavs) are an nba basketball team based in dallas, texas. ...
smith  college is a private, independent womens liberal arts college located in  northampton, massachusetts. ...
stanford women playedberkeley, 9-on-9, ending in a 2-1 stanford victory.
download high  resolution version (500x684, 93 kb)caption: 040130-n-9693m-020 u.s. naval  academy, annapolis, md. ...
babe didrikson in the 1932 olympic javelin competition mildred ella babe didrikson zaharias (june 26, 1911-september 27, american athlete, who excelled in many sports.
search all facts & statistics advanced view search encyclopedia, statistics and forums: select category agriculture background crime currency democracy disasters economy education energy environment food geography government health identification immigration industry internet labor language lifestyle media military mortality people religion sports taxation terrorism transportation (* = graphable)select category agriculture background crime currency democracy disasters economy education energy environment food geography government health identification immigration industry internet labor language lifestyle media military mortality people religion sports taxation terrorism transportation (
image file history file links  download high resolution version (500x750, 95 kb)caption: 040130-n-6213r-014  u.s. naval academy, annapolis, md. ...
image file history file links size of this preview: 800 × 370 pixel image in higher resolution (1350 × 625 pixel, file size: 46 kb, mime type: image/png)world map showing the different fiba commissions. ...
in 1950 the firstfiba world championship for men was held in argentina.
the san antonio spurs are an american professional basketball team based in san antonio, texas. ...
zone defense involves players in defensive positions  guarding whichever opponent is in their zone.
for the 2004 film, see dodgeball: a true underdog story. ...
half-court games also raise the number of players that can use a court, an important benefit when many players want to play.
(duncan competes for the  united states internationally, as the virgin islands did not field a basketball  team for international competition until well after duncan started playing  internationally, and all u.s. virgin islands natives are united states citizens  by birth.)
... is the 305th day of the year (306th in leap years) in the gregorian calendar. ...
this is  called ano-look pass.
wnba may also refer to wnba-am, a radio station in illinois.
streetballers at the venice beach basketball courts, california, usa.
for both college and the nba there are a  total of three referees on the court.
the  ball is released while over the passer's head.
in the united states and canada, varsity sports teams are the principal athletic teams representing a college, university, or high school or other secondary school. ...
a netball game in australia  netball is a non contact sport similar to, and derived from, basketball. ...
this article  is about the professional basketball player. ...
the tallest current nba  player isyao ming, who stands at 2.26 m (7 ft 6 in).
the 2006 nba draft was held on june 28 at the theatre at  madison square garden in new york city. ...
the united states mens national basketball team is the representative for the united states of america in international mens basketball. ...
year 1936 (mcmxxxvi) was a leap year starting on wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the gregorian calendar. ...
yale redirects here. ...
the majority of rebounds are defensive, as the  team on defense tends to be in better position to recover missed shots.
is the 20th day of the year in the gregorian calendar. ...
teams also have acoach, who oversees the development and  strategies of the team, and other team personnel such as assistant coaches,  managers, statisticians, doctors and athletic trainers.
women's industrial leagues sprang up throughout the nation, producing famous athletes likebabe didrikson of thegolden cyclones and the all american red heads team who competed against men's teams, using men's rules.
" shooting is the act of attempting to score points by throwing the ball  through the basket.
the international basketball league (ibl) was a short lived professional basketball league in the united states. ...
two-point shots count as two points and shots from behind the three-point line count three.
the first player to reach exactly 21 points wins.
the player holds the ball to rest in the dominant hand's fingertips (the shooting arm) slightly above the head, with the other hand on the side of the ball.
the fiba asia champions cup is the asian club championship for basketball organized by fiba asia. ...
this article is about the sport.
sather tower  (the campanile) looking out over the san francisco bay and mount tamalpais. ...
... defensive and offensive structures, and positions, are more emphasized in higher levels in basketball; it is these that a coach normally requests a time-out to discuss.
senda berenson abbott (b. ... basketball's early adherents were dispatched to ymcas throughout the united states, and it quickly spread through the usa and canada.
this article or section does not cite its references or sources. ...
the  golden cyclones were a 1930s group of women athletes who played aau softball,  basketball and track-and-field. ...
this provides much greater power and range, and it also allows the player to elevate over the defender.
carmelo anthony (born may 29, 1984 in  the red hook projects of brooklyn, new york)[1] is an american professional  basketball player at the small forward position for the denver nuggets of the  national basketball association and the usa national team. ...
modern indoor gymnasium with pull-down basketball hoops.
image file history file linksmetadata basketball.
this article does not cite any  references or sources. ...
in the years before world war i, the amateur athletic union and the intercollegiate athletic association of the  united states (forerunner of thencaa) vied for control over the rules for the  game.
after rejecting other ideas as either too rough or poorly  suited to walled-in gymnasiums, he wrote the basicrules and nailed a peach  basket onto a 10-foot (3.05 m) elevated track.
carmelo anthony (born may 29, 1984 in the red hook projects of brooklyn, new york)[1] is an american professional basketball player at the small forward position for the denver nuggets of the national basketball association and the usa national team. ...
92 by 49 ft) and in the nba is 94 by 50 feet (29 by 15 m).
a player's hand cannot be under the ball while dribbling; doing so  is known ascarrying the ball.
national association of intercollegiate athletics womens basketball championship division i the naia national womens basketball championship is held in jackson,tn and is played at oman arena. ... -
if a team misses the first shot (or  "front end") of a one-and-one situation, the opposing team may  reclaim possession of the ball and continue play.
otherprofessional women's basketball leagues in the united states, such as the american basketball league (1996-1998), have folded in part because of the popularity of thewnba.
it has been suggested that three point play be merged into this article or section. ...
most  courts are made of wood.
the ball  may not be kicked nor struck with the fist.
... is the 11th day of the year in the gregorian calendar.
a shinty game in progress shinty (scottish gaelic camanachd or iomain) is a team sport played with sticks and a ball.
if  a teammate of the shooter goaltends, the basket is cancelled and play continues  with the defensive team being given possession.
the majority of rebounds are defensive, as the team on defense tends to be in better position to recover missed shots.
in 1905,  the national women's basketball committee'sexecutive committee on basket  ball rules was created by the american physical education association.
in the  game of basketball, a double dribble is a violation in which a player dribbles  (bounces) the ball, clearly holds it with a combination of either one or two  hands (while either moving or stationary), and then proceeds to dribble again  without first either attempting a field goal or...
half-court games require lesscardiovascular stamina, since players need not run  back and forth a full court.
players often try to put a steady backspin on the ball to deaden its  impact with the rim.
naismith's disciple amos alonzo stagg brought basketball to theuniversity of chicago, while adolph rupp, a student of naismith's at kansas, enjoyed great success as coach at theuniversity of kentucky.
the  international basketball federation (french: fédération  internationale de basketball), more commonly known by the french acronym fiba  (pronounced ), is an association of national organizations which governs  international competition in basketball.
the high-top is a shoe that extends significantly over the wearers ankle. ...
after rejecting other ideas as either too rough or poorly suited to walled-in gymnasiums, he wrote the basicrules and nailed a peach basket onto a 10-foot (3.05 m) elevated track.
...  the american association for the advancement of physical education,  founded in 1885 to support gymnastics education. ...
emanuel david ginobili (spanish:  ginóbili) (born july 28, 1977 in bahía blanca, argentina), better  known as manu ginobili, is an argentine basketball player of italian descent.
for the  league that began in 1999, see american basketball association (2000-).
for other uses, see curling (disambiguation).
berenson's freshmen played the sophomore class in the first women's collegiate basketball game atsmith college, march 21, 1893.
for the animated television series, see harlem globetrotters (tv  series). ...
basketball player for the philadelphia / san francisco warriors, the  philadelphia 76ers and the los angeles lakers; and also played for the harlem  globetrotters. ...
a violation of these rules results  in loss of possession, or, if committed by the defense, a reset of theshot clock .
john lloyd stephens in  1839 john lloyd stephens (november 28, 1805â€“october 13, 1852)  was an american explorer, writer, and diplomat. ...
... teams abounded throughout the 1920s.
note: most high school games do not employ a shot clock.
oscar palmer robertson (born november 24, 1938 in charlotte, tennessee), nicknamed the big o, is a former american nba player with the cincinnati royals and the milwaukee bucks. ...
for other uses, see high school (disambiguation).
look up shot in  wiktionary, the free dictionary. ...
in the 2003–04 season, 1,002,797 boys and girls represented  their schools in interscholastic basketball competition, according to the national federation of state high school associations.
college basketball and early leagues
good dribblers (or "ball handlers") tend to bounce the ball low to the ground, reducing the travel from the floor to the hand, making it more difficult for the defender to "steal" the ball.
in the years before world war i, the amateur athletic union and the intercollegiate athletic association of the united states (forerunner of thencaa) vied for control over the rules for the game.
dribbling was not part of the original game except for the  "bounce pass" to teammates.
... today virtually every high school in the united states fields a  basketball team invarsity competition.
in 1946, the basketball association of america (baa) was formed, organizing  the top professional teams and leading to greater popularity of the  professional game.
andrew michael bogut (born november 28, 1984) is an australian professional basketball player. ...
mount holyoke (elevation 940/286m) is the western-most peak of the mt. ... h. sophie newcomb memorial college of tulane university was established in new orleans, louisiana, circa 1884, as a womens college. ...
predrag peja  stojakoviä‡ (serbian cyrillic:  ðÿñ€ðµð´ñ€ð°ð³  ðÿðµñ’ð°  ð¡ñ‚ð¾ñ˜ð°ðºð¾ð²ð¸ñ›;  born june 9, 1977 in slavonska požega, sr croatia, yugoslavia) is a  serbian basketball player for the nbas new orleans hornets. ...
a quick movement by an offensive player  without the ball to gain an advantageous position is acut.
in sports, an ejection is a disqualifying action  assessed to a player or coach by a game official (such as a referee or umpire),  usually for unsportsmanlike conduct. ...
image file history file links download high-resolution version (1217x1504, 627 kb)
this plays a major role in the game, as most possessions end  when a team misses a shot.
ballcourt at monte alban ballcourt at uaxactun the mesoamerican  ballgame[1] was a sport with ritual associations played for over 3000 years by  the peoples of mesoamerica in pre-columbian times. ...
... the above descriptions are flexible.
streetball is an urban form of basketball,  played on playgrounds and in gymnasiums across the world. ...
sean pero macpherson cameron (born 6 may 1974) is a new zealand professional basketball player. ...
women's industrial leagues  sprang up throughout the nation, producing famous athletes likebabe didrikson  of thegolden cyclones and the all american red heads team who competed against  men's teams, using men's rules.
a player or coach who shows poor sportsmanship, for instance, by arguing with a referee or by fighting with another player, can be charged with a more serious foul called atechnical foul.
four-point plays, while  rare, can also occur.
three years later, the firstfiba world championship for women was held in chile .
andrew michael bogut (born november 28, 1984) is an australian  professional basketball player. ...
image file history file links firstbasketball. ...
this article or section does not cite its references or sources.
a team, once having established ball control in  the front half of the court, may not return the ball to the backcourt.
substitutions are unlimited but can only be done when play is stopped.
the two plays are combined in the pick and roll , in which a player sets a pick and then "rolls" away from the pick towards the basket.
teamwork: fourth class midshipmen lock arms and use ropes made from uniform items as they brace themselves climbing the herndon monument the united states naval academy, or usna, is an institution for the undergraduate education of officers of the united states navy and the united states marine corps. ...
(serbian cyrillic: ðñðµð´ñð°ð³ ððµñð° ð¡ñð¾ñð°ðºð¾ð²ð¸ñ; born june 9, 1977 in slavonska požega, sr croatia, yugoslavia) is a serbian basketball player for the nbas new orleans hornets. ...
typically, team names, players' names and, outside  of north america, sponsors are printed on the uniforms.
the states of illinois, indiana and kentucky are particularly well known for their residents' devotion to high school basketball, commonly calledhoosier hysteria in indiana; the critically acclaimed filmhoosiers shows high school basketball's depth of meaning to these rural communities.
the ball must stay within the court; the last team to touch the ball before it travels out of bounds forfeits possession.
most players shoot directly into the basket, but shooters may use the backboard to redirect the ball into the basket.
the american basketball association (aba) was a professional basketball league founded in 1967, and eventually merged, in part, with the national basketball association (nba).
for other uses, see rugby (disambiguation).
partially spurred by an association with cheating, the nit lost  support to the ncaa tournament.
pau gasol sáez (born july 6, 1980, in barcelona, catalonia, spain) is a 2. ...
a special way of doing this is passing the ball without looking at the receiving teammate.
in basketball, a technical foul is an infraction of the rules usually concerning unsportsmanlike non-contact behavior. ...
ginobili also made the 2006 team; the other  members were anthony, gasol, hisspanish teammate jorge garbajosa and theodoros  papaloukas of greece.
fluted wood dowel dowel joint a dowel is a pin,  usually made of wood, plastic or metal, used to secure two objects together.
beach handball is a team sport where two teams pass and bounce a ball trying to throw it in the goal of the opposing team. ...
official  language(s) english[1] capital springfield largest city chicago largest metro  area chicago metropolitan area area  ranked 25th  - total  57,918 sq mi (140,998 km²)  - width  210 miles (340 km)  - length 390 miles (629 km)   - % water 4. ...
in the 2003–04 season, 1,002,797 boys and girls represented their schools in interscholastic basketball competition, according to the national federation of state high school associations.
in basketball, traveling is a violation of the rules that occurs when a player holding the ball illegally moves one or both of his feet. ...
the introduction to this article provides insufficient context for those unfamiliar with the subject matter. ...
the international women's sports federation (1924) included a women's basketball competition.
baltic basketball league (bbl) was founded in year 2005. ...
when dribbling past an opponent, the dribbler should dribble with the  hand farthest from the opponent, making it more difficult for the defensive  player to get to the ball.
while variation is possible in the dimensions of the court and  backboard, it is considered important for the basket to be of the correct  height; a rim that is off by but a few inches can have an adverse effect on  shooting.
the national invitation tournament (nit) is a  mens college basketball tournament operated by the national collegiate athletic  association. ...
it is therefore important for a player to be able to dribble competently with both hands.
hoosiers is also the nickname of  indiana university athletic teams; see indiana hoosiers. ...
whichever team got the most points won the game.[3] image file history file links firstbasketball. ...
37 women's high school varsity basketball or state tournaments were held by 1925.
dribbling only became a major part of the game around the 1950s as manufacturing improved the ball shape.
dwyane wade is the current king of circus  shots, following in the footsteps of former circus shooting legends like  michael jordan and dominque wilkins.
overtime is an additional period of play specified under the rules of a sport in order to bring the game to a decision and avoid declaring the contest a tie or draw.
five players from each team (out of a twelve player roster) may be on  the court at one time.
fifteen minutes are allowed for a half-time break, and  two minutes are allowed at the other breaks.
violations the ball may be advanced toward the basket by being shot, passed between  players, thrown, tapped, rolled or dribbled (bouncing the ball while running).
... the object of the game is to outscore one's opponents by throwing the  ball through the opponents' basket from above while preventing the opponents  from doing so on their own.
players who are fouled either receive the ball to pass inbounds again, or receive one or morefree throws if they are fouled in the act of shooting, depending on whether the shot was successful.
players wear high-top sneakers that  provide extra ankle support.
in basketball, a technical  foul is an infraction of the rules usually concerning unsportsmanlike  non-contact behavior. ...
other  variations include children's games, contests or activities meant to help  players reinforce skills.
sara giauro shoots a three-point shot, fiba europe cup for women finals 2007
to aim the ball,  the player's elbow should be aligned vertically, with the forearm facing in the  direction of the basket.
gheorghe dumitru mureşan (ipa: /gi. ...
steven john nash, obc (born  february 7, 1974),[1] is a canadian professional basketball player who plays  point guard for the phoenix suns of the national basketball association (nba).
the  nba development league, or d-league, is the national basketball associations  officially sponsored and operated developmental basketball organization.
they generally last no longer than one minute unless, for televised games, a commercial break is needed.
yale  redirects here. ...
image file history file links basketball_positions.
the international womens  sports federation held an olympic-style games, in 1922, in paris. ...
water polo is a team water sport.
is the 305th day of  the year (306th in leap years) in the gregorian calendar. ...
is the 94th day of the year (95th in leap years) in the gregorian  calendar. ...
ringette is a team sport played on an ice surface. ...
the scottish mens national league is the top mens basketball league in scotland, and forms the second tier of british basketball (in cohesion with the english basketball league) after the professional setup of the bbl, where scotland has just one representative in the scottish rocks. ...
in combination with a regular shot, this is called a "three-point play" because of the basket made at the time of the foul (2 points) and the additional free throw (1 point).
the new york renaissance, also known as the rens, were an all-black professional basketball team founded in 1922, a few years before the harlem globetrotters.
the most crowd-pleasing, and typically highest-percentage accuracy shot is theslam dunk, in which the player jumps very high, and throws the ball downward, straight through the hoop.
a player who commits five fouls, including  technical fouls, in one game (six in some professional leagues, including the  nba) is not allowed to participate for the rest of the game, and is described  as having "fouled out".
the euroleague (el) is the highest caliber professional basketball league in europe, with teams from thirteen different european countries. ...
the national  association of intercollegiate athletics (better known as the naia) traces its  roots to the national association of intercollegiate basketball. ...
for the croatian politician, see krešimir  ä†osiä‡ (politician). ...
allen iverson performing a high percentage layup. ...
while methods can vary with players and situations, the  most common technique can be outlined here.
alma mater  columbia university is a private university in the united states and a member  of the ivy league. ...
the referee may use discretion in calling fouls (for example, by considering whether an unfair advantage was gained), sometimes making fouls controversial calls.
an indoor soccer game in mexico.
a legal attempt by an offensive player to stop an opponent from guarding a teammate, by standing in the defender's way such that the teammate cuts next to him, is a screen or pick.
this article is about the ball used in basketball. ...
final results for the basketball competition at the 1972 summer olympics. ...
theodoros papaloukas (greek: îîµïî´ïïî¿ï î î±ïî±î»î¿ï îºî¬ï; born may 8, 1977) is a greek top professional basketball player who has been playing for cska moscow since june 2002.
four-point plays, while rare, can also occur.
the only essential equipment in basketball is the basketball and the court:  a flat, rectangular surface with baskets at opposite ends.
the penalty involves free throws (which unlike a personal foul, the other team canchoose who they want to shoot the free throws) and varies between leagues.
sean pero macpherson cameron (born 6 may 1974) is a new zealand professional  basketball player. ...
an attempt to unfairly disadvantage an opponent through physical contact is illegal and is called a foul.
typically, team names, players' names and, outside of north america, sponsors are printed on the uniforms.
...  the national basketball association first named a most valuable player  after the 1955-56 nba season. ...
in basketball, an air ball is any shot  that misses the basket completely and does not hit either the net, rim, or  backboard. ...
however, with developing programs elsewhere, other national  teams started to beat the united states.
zone defense involves players in defensive positions guarding whichever opponent is in their zone.
by 1895, it was well established at several women's high schools.
fiba asia subzones fiba
some variations are only superficial rules changes, while others  are distinct games with varying degrees of basketball influences.
a player  who makes a basket is awarded up to three extra free throws (or unlimited if  you are playing "all day"), worth the usual one point.
to aim the ball, the player's elbow should be aligned vertically, with the forearm facing in the direction of the basket.
and barnstorming squads such as theoriginal celtics and two all african american teams, thenew york renaissance five ("rens") and (still in existenceas of 2006)
a player who commits five fouls, including technical fouls, in one game (six in some professional leagues, including the nba) is not allowed to participate for the rest of the game, and is described as having "fouled out".
while methods can vary with players and situations, the most common technique can be outlined here.
a popular version of the half-court game is 21.
this article is  about the association. ...
the first balls made specifically for basketball were brown, and it was only in  the late 1950s
the rules of basketball are the rules and regulations that govern the play, officiating, equipment and procedures of basketball.
the liga sudamericana (portuguese: liga sul-americana, english: south american league) is an international male basketball cup competition played annually by the top clubs of south america, organized by the south american basketball confederation. ...
while the ymca was  responsible for initially developing and spreading the game, within a decade it  discouraged the new sport, as rough play and rowdy crowds began to detract from  the ymca's primary mission.
kobe bryant (born august 23, 1978) is an american all-star shooting guard in the national basketball association who plays for the los angeles lakers. ...
the high-top is a shoe  that extends significantly over the wearers ankle. ...
its acronym, in french, was thus fiba; the "a" standing for  amateur.
in the us college game if a  team surpasses 7 fouls in the half the opposing team is awarded a one-and-one  free throw (make the first you have a chance at a second).
soccer redirects here. ...
for both men's and women's teams, a standard uniform consists of a pair of shorts and ajersey with a clearly visible number, unique within the team, printed on both the front and back.
the rules of basketball are the rules and regulations that govern the  play, officiating, equipment and procedures of basketball.
the amateur athletic union, widely known as the aau, was formed in united states. ...
... the shortest player ever to play in the nba is muggsy bogues at 1.60 meters (5 ft 3 in).
for both college and the nba there are a total of three referees on the court.
after a team has committed a specified number of fouls, it is said to  be "in the penalty".
ranked 25th - total 57,918 sq mi (140,998 km²) - width 210 miles (340 km) - length 390 miles (629 km) - % water 4. ...
this is an article about the national basketball association team; for the defunct world football league team, see memphis southmen. ...
power forward is a position in the sport of basketball. ...
the international basketball federation (french fédération internationale de basketball) is an association of national organizations which governs international competitition in the sport. ...
almost all forwards in the men's pro leagues are 2 meters (6 ft 6 in) or taller.
indianapolis redirects  here. ...
and in 1926, the amateur athletic union backed the first national women's basketball championship, complete with men's rules.
37 women's high school varsity basketball or state tournaments  were held by 1925.
for other uses, see slam dunk (disambiguation). ...
... there are many variations as well played in informal settings without  referees or strict rules.
gaelic football (irish: peil, peil gaelach or caid ), commonly referred to as football, or gaelic , is a form of football played mainly in ireland. ...
this article is about the oldest and largest campus of the university of minnesota. ...
larry joe bird (born december 7, 1956) is  a retired american nba basketball player, widely considered one of the greatest  players of all time, and one of the best clutch performers in the history of  sports. ...
in basketball, an assist is attributed to a player who passes the ball to a teammate in a way that leads to a score by field goal, meaning that he or she was assisting in the basket. ...
nba redirects here. ...
the fiba world championship (also called the  basketball world championship)
a player fouled while attempting a three-point  shot, on the other hand, receives three shots.
an  upstart organization, theamerican basketball association, emerged in 1967 and  briefly threatened the nba's dominance until the rival leagues merged in 1976.
having no offical mascot, the athletic teams at stanford university are referred to as stanford cardinal. ...
professional basketball refers to a number of leagues in which athletes play in sports arenas, on organized teams, for profit. ...
a fiba-sanctioned basketball court, with the key located as the trapezoid nearest to the basket.
if a defensive  player goaltends, the attempted shot is considered to have been successful.
naismith called the new game '
if a team misses the first shot (or "front end") of a one-and-one situation, the opposing team may reclaim possession of the ball and continue play.
power forward is a position in the sport of  basketball. ...
the game is controlled by the officials consisting of the referee  ("crew chief" in the nba), one or two umpires ("referees"  in the nba) and the table officials.
water basketball is a water sport  which mixes rules of basketball and water polo.
thus, players often use the bounce pass in crowded moments, or to pass around a defender.
this is called a  "tip".
the nba development league, or d-league, is the national basketball associations officially sponsored and operated developmental basketball organization.
search encyclopedia, statistics and forums:
the womens national basketball  association (wnba) is an organization governing a professional basketball  league for women in the united states. ...
the 2002 fiba world championship was an international basketball tournament held by the international basketball federation in indianapolis, indiana, usa from august 29 to september 8, 2002. ...
bank shot redirects here.
the most commonly interchanged positions are point guard  and shooting guard, especially if both players have good leadership and ball  handling skills.
if a teammate of the shooter goaltends, the basket is cancelled and play continues with the defensive team being given possession.
the first intercollegiate women's game was on april 4, 1896.
sheryl denise swoopes (born march 25, 1971) is an american professional basketball player, currently playing for the houston comets in the womens national basketball association (wnba).
... u.s. high school basketball before widespread school district consolidation, most united states high  schools were far smaller than their present day counterparts.
if a defensive player goaltends, the attempted shot is considered to have been successful.
during the first  decades of the 20th century, basketball quickly became the ideal  interscholastic sport due to its modest equipment and personnel requirements.
... there are limits imposed on the time taken before progressing the ball past halfway (8 seconds in international and nba; 10 seconds in ncaa and high school), before attempting a shot (24 seconds in the nba; 35 seconds in ncaa), holding the ball while closely guarded (5 seconds), and remaining in the restricted area (the lane, or "key") (3 seconds).
the shot clock monument in syracuse, new york a shot clock is a timer designed to increase the pace (and subsequently, the score) in a competitive sport.
... before widespread school district consolidation, most united states high schools were far smaller than their present day counterparts.
in early december 1891, dr. james naismith,[1] a canadian physical education student and instructor atymca training school[2] (today, springfield college) in springfield, massachusetts, usa, sought a vigorous indoor game to keep his students occupied and at proper levels of fitness during the longnew england winters.
by not having to focus on the ball, a player can look for teammates or scoring opportunities, as well as avoid the danger of someone stealing the ball from him/her.
mens professional basketball leagues category: ...
offensive plays are more varied, normally involving planned passes and movement by players without the ball.
for other uses, see indiana (disambiguation).
the womens u21 world championship is a womens under-21 only basketball competition organized by fiba.
the world basketball association is a professional basketball league entering its third year of play.
official language(s) english[1] capital frankfort largest city louisville  area  ranked 37th  - total 40,444 sq mi (104,749 km²)   - width 140 miles (225 km)  - length  379 miles (610 km)  - % water 1. ...
although there is no direct evidence as yet that the idea of basketball came from the ancientmesoamerican ballgame, knowledge of that game had been available for at least 50 years prior to naismith's creation in the writings ofjohn lloyd stephens and alexander von humboldt.
look up bandy in wiktionary, the free dictionary. ...
other ball games, such asbaseball and canadian football, have commonwealth of  nations, european, asian or african connections.
a floorball match between sweden (yellow) and finland (white) floorball is a gay indoor team sport played using composite or carbon sticks with a plastic vented blade where the aim is to put a light plastic ball into the opponents goal.
generally, the non-shooting arm is used only to guide the shot, not to power it.
the time allowed is actual  playing time; the clock is stopped while the play is not active.
the first game was played in toronto, canada between the toronto huskies and new york knickerbockers on november 1, 1946.
the five tactical basketball positions normally employed by organized basketball teams are: point guard, shooting guard, small forward, power forward, and center. ...
for the croatian politician, see krešimir äosiä (politician).
initially, one shot is awarded, but after a certain number of  additional fouls are committed the opposing team may receive (a) one shot with  a chance for a second shot if the first shot is made, called shooting  "one-and-one", or (b) two shots.
the ball is shot by bending and extending the knees and extending the shooting arm to become straight; the ball rolls off the finger tips while the wrist completes a full downward flex motion.
mount holyoke (elevation 940/286m) is the western-most peak of  the mt. ...
man to man defense is a type of defensive tactic used  in basketball and football (soccer) in which each player is assigned to defend  and follow the movements of a single player on offense.
while competitive basketball is primarily an indoor sport, played on a basketball court, less regulated variations have become exceedingly popular as an outdoor sport among both inner city and rural groups.
game of buzkashi in mazari sharif, afghanistan buzkashi, kok-boru or oglak tartis (persian: ø¨ø²ú©ø´û buzkashī: goat grabbing) (uzbek, tatar, turkmen: kökbörü, kök blue + börü wolf, kazakh: ðºó©ðºð¿ð°ñ, kyrgyz: ñð»ð°ðº) is a traditional central asian team sport played on horseback.
the ball strikes the court and bounces up toward the receiver.
image file history file links download high resolution version (500x750, 95 kb)caption: 040130-n-6213r-014 u.s. naval academy, annapolis, md. ...
for other persons named michael jordan, see michael jordan (disambiguation).
the tallest players ever in the nba weremanute bol and gheorghe mureşan, who were both 2.31 m (7 ft 7 in) tall.
adults playing kickball. ...
in basketball, a three-point field goal,  three-pointer, three-point shot, or simply three is a field goal made from  beyond the three point line, a designated semi-ellipsoid arc radiating from the  basket.
indoor field hockey is an indoor variant of traditional outdoor field hockey. ...
good passers can pass the ball with great accuracy and touch and know exactly where each of their teammates like to receive the ball.
in the 2004 athens olympics, the  united states suffered its first olympic loss while using professional players,  falling topuerto rico (in a 19-point loss) and lithuania in group games, and  being eliminated in the semifinals byargentina.
brynmawr (bryn-mawr) is a market town in the  county borough of blaenau gwent, traditional county of brecknockshire, mid  wales. ...
dribbling was eventually introduced but limited by the asymmetric shape of early balls.
the houston rockets are an american professional basketball team based in houston, texas. ...
soccer redirects here.
such games tend to emphasize individual dribbling and ball  stealing skills over shooting and team play.
for other uses, see  university of chicago (disambiguation). ...
lisa leslie (born july 7, 1972 in gardena, california) is a womens national  basketball association player currently playing for the los angeles sparks. ...
theodore roosevelt, jr. ...
whichever team got the  most points won the game.[3] image file history file links firstbasketball. ...
this article is about the french basketball player. ...
these are most commonly committed by defensive players; however, they can be committed by offensive players as well.
for both men's and women's teams, a standard uniform consists of a  pair of shorts and ajersey with a clearly visible number, unique within the  team, printed on both the front and back.
however, with developing programs elsewhere, other national teams started to beat the united states.
pau gasol sáez (born july 6,  1980, in barcelona, catalonia, spain) is a 2. ...
game between illinois state redbirds &  ball state cardinals, february 17, 2007 in an espn bracketbuster contest.
william felton bill russell (born february 12, 1934) is a retired  american professional basketball player who played center for the boston  celtics of the nba.
oscar palmer robertson (born november 24, 1938  in charlotte, tennessee), nicknamed the big o, is a former american nba player  with the cincinnati royals and the milwaukee bucks. ...
... naismith's handwritten diaries, discovered by his granddaughter in  early 2006, indicate that he was nervous about the new game he had invented,  which incorporated rules from a canadian children's game called "duck on a  rock", as many had failed before it.
peripheral vision is a part of vision that occurs outside the very  center of gaze. ...
and the intercollegiate athletic association of the united states (iaaus) was created.
the united states' dominance continued with the introduction of  theirdream team.
image file history file links basketball_positions. ...
wheelchair basketball is played on specially designed wheelchairs for the physically impaired.
thus, players often use the bounce pass in crowded moments, or to  pass around a defender.
in the united states and canada, varsity  sports teams are the principal athletic teams representing a college,  university, or high school or other secondary school. ...
although some players can perform them  effectively, many coaches discourage no-look or behind-the-back passes,  believing them to be fundamentally unsound, difficult to control, and more  likely to result in turnovers or violations.
download high resolution version (500x684, 93 kb)caption:  040130-n-9693m-020 u.s. naval academy, annapolis, md. ...
a skilled player can dribble without watching the ball, using the  dribbling motion orperipheral vision to keep track of the ball's location.
incorporated as trustees of  dartmouth college,[6][7] it is a member of the ivy league and one of the nine  colonial colleges founded before the american revolution. ...
the first men's national championship tournament, the national association of intercollegiate basketball tournament, which still exists as thenational association of intercollegiate athletics (naia) tournament, was organized in 1937.
... the nba-backed women's national basketball association (wnba) began  1997.
the american association for the advancement of physical education, founded in 1885 to support gymnastics education.
the harlem globetrotters played up to two hundred games a year on their national tours.
however, other amateur sports clubs, colleges, and professional clubs quickly filled the void.
a rebound in basketball is the act of successfully gaining possession of the basketball after a missed field goal or free throw. ...
if a team surpasses a preset limit of team fouls in a given period (quarter or half) – four for nba and international games – the opposing team is awarded one or two free throws on all subsequent fouls for that period, the number depending on the league.
there are a variety of articles listing people of a particular sport. ...
fistball is a very old sport which continues to be practiced all over the world: in europe, north and south america, africa and asia. ...
basketball's popularity remains high,  both in rural areas where they carry the identification of the entire  community, as well as at some larger schools known for their basketball teams  where many players go on to participate at higher levels of competition after  graduation.
this competition has usually been  dominated by the united states, whose team has won all but three titles, the  first loss in a controversial final game inmunich in 1972 against the soviet  union.
dražen petroviä‡,  playing for the new jersey nets. ...
this article or section does not adequately cite its references or sources.
earvin johnson redirects here. ...
diagram of a  canadian football field. ...
there are two categories of rebounds: offensive rebounds, in which the ball is recovered by the offensive side and does not change possession, and defensive rebounds, in which the defending team gains possession of the loose ball.
water basketball, played in a swimming pool, merges basketball and water polo rules.
the player should be positioned facing the basket with feet about  shoulder-width apart, knees slightly bent, and back straight.
there are two categories of rebounds: offensive  rebounds, in which the ball is recovered by the offensive side and does not  change possession, and defensive rebounds, in which the defending team gains  possession of the loose ball.
the first women'saau all-america team was chosen in 1929.
the number of free throws awarded increases with the number of fouls  committed.
springfield college is a college located in springfield, massachusetts. ...
while the ymca was responsible for initially developing and spreading the game, within a decade it discouraged the new sport, as rough play and rowdy crowds began to detract from the ymca's primary mission.
this  article or section does not cite any references or sources. ...
... fiba | olympics | world championship (men) - (women) | world rankings u21 world championship (men) - (women) | u19 world championship (men) - (women) | teams the open directory project (odp), also known as dmoz (from , its original domain name), is a multilingual open content directory of world wide web links owned by netscape that is constructed and maintained by a community of volunteer editors.
overtime periods are five minutes long.
the american basketball league of 1996  was an attempt to establish an independent professional basketball league for  women in the united states. ...
download high resolution version (500x684, 93 kb)caption: 040130-n-9693m-020 u.s. naval academy, annapolis, md. ...
point guard: usually the fastest player on the team, organizes the team's  offense by controlling the ball and making sure that it gets to the right  player at the right time shooting guard: creates a high volume of shots on offense; guards the  opponent's best perimeter player on defense small forward: often primarily responsible for scoring points via cuts to  the basket and dribble penetration; on defense seeks rebounds and steals, but  sometimes plays more actively power forward: plays offensively often with his back to the basket; on  defense, plays under the basket (in a zone defense) or against the opposing  power forward (in man-to-man defense) center: uses size to score (on offense), to protect the basket closely (on  defense), or to rebound.
the first  women'saau all-america team was chosen in 1929.
a  successful shot is worth two points, orthree points if it is taken from beyond  the three-point arc which is 6.25 meters (20 ft 6 in) from the basket in  international games and 23 ft 9 in (7.24 m) in nba games.