arizona has a .622 winning % in the ncaas, 1 nc, 4 ffs, and 8 elite 8s.
the b1g did flirt with texas but rejected any  tag-alongs that would tarnish their academic image (ou, ttech, and/or osu).
the big 12 and the sec are more willing to go beyond what would be considered their "region".
without that, we're no better than the big east, who will have a regular top ten program among their ranks soon.
the pac-12,  despite it's great tv contracts knows that it needs to expand at some point  since they only have 1 football king.
state have  both flirted with baron status in the past but don't make the grade now.
revisiting kings and barons both football and basketball author message post:#1
the b1g did flirt with texas but rejected any tag-alongs that would tarnish their academic image (ou, ttech, and/or osu).
our kings have seen far better days, our barons can't win their bowl games...
georgetown probably would have bumped one of them, but i was trying to tie the kings/barons list to conference realignment, so ruled out the non-fbs programs from consideration.
i agree, we need to see fsu and miami to get back to previous program levels of success.
for the latter i am not including non-fbs playing members suchas georgetown, villanova, and marquette which would all be at least baron status.
04-08-2012 10:37 pm chrislords 1st
both the pac 12, b1g and the acc are more limited by geography, though this limitation is self imposed by the respective conference.
pitt could easily be elevated from what is the knight level back up to baron status if they were to have a good 5-7 year run.
as to the  target schools, you might be able to expand that to include potential 16 team  leagues: pac 12: texas, oklahoma, tag-alongs accepted as long as  texas is in the package acc: notre dame, pick-em big 12: florida  state, clemsonm louisville, cincy, afa, byu sec: florida state, clemson,  wvu, oklahoma, texas b1g: notre dame, pick-em (as long as academics are  respectable) both the pac 12, b1g and the acc are more limited by  geography, though this limitation is self imposed by the respective conference.
it's just that the feeling isn't mutual, especially by texas.
football kings: alabama, florida, florida  state, louisiana state, miami, michigan, nebraska, notre dame, ohio state,  oklahoma, penn state, southern cal, texas barons: arkansas, auburn,  clemson, colorado, georgia, georgia tech, oregon, tennessee, texas a&m,  ucla, virginia tech, west virginia, wisconsin basketball kings: arizona, connecticut, duke, florida, indiana, kansas, kentucky,  louisville, michigan state, north carolina, ohio state, syracuse, ucla barons: arkansas, cincinnati, illinois, maryland, memphis, michigan, missouri,  north carolina state, notre dame, oklahoma state, pittsburgh, purdue, stanford,  tennessee, texas, west virginia, wisconsin i'm sure the above is not  a perfect listing, but i believe that it is a solid enough listing that it  might give us an insight into how each conference is viewed.
i see missouri as more big ten country than sec, but then it took the sec some time to decide upon #14 after they couldn't persuade two other logical geographical extensions as takers (a team from virginia or a team from north carolina).
also, i'd add temple to the fbs football fielding basketball barons list.
they should be in a category above the kings.
today's landscape pretty much ensures conferences will be looking to extend beyond their supposed geography of yesteryear.
it's just that the feeling isn't mutual, especially by  texas.
the big xii has  no place to go if either the sec or the pac 12 are successful.
pm)xlance wrote: (04-08-2012 12:39
the big xii has no place to go if either the sec or the pac 12 are successful.
knock yourselves out.
04-08-2012 10:28 pm icejus10 special teams posts: 684 joined: nov 2011
the pac-12 - texas and oklahoma the acc - notre dame the big 12 - florida state and clemson ultimately, for the acc (since this is an acc board), the league truly needs fsu and miami to get back to being kings on the field as well as off the field.
while i agree the barons are more fluid than the kings, i  think it's still relatively stable as well.
so georgia, if it were to go on a hot streak for  5-7 years and win another nc they would quickly be elevated back to king (if  they aren't a king already), but oregon would need probably two decades or more  at their current level with at least 2 ncs to reach king level.
the acc on the otherhand is well positioned as a 12 team league if fsu or clemson (or both) were to leave.
with one league having three kings and four barons and the other having four kings, one baron, and two knights that could rise to baron status in michigan state and iowa, they may choose to do so, but they don't need to.
should that happen the conference will be  fine.
i think the pac-12 desperately wants to extend  beyond their current geography to get into both texas and oklahoma, moreso the  former than the latter.
average - 1 - 2 - 3 - 4 - 5 revisiting kings and barons both football and basketball author message omniorange heisman posts: 7,048 joined: apr 2004
* several acc teams were once kings but have fallen to baron (clemson & ga tech) or lower (pittsburgh).
it also gives us insight into why the  conferences not named the sec and the big have targeted who they have targeted  for any remaining expansion.
should that happen the conference will be fine.
and unless ucla finds their pete carroll  that isn't changing in a hurry.
i am more hopeful  that the acc is rising with fsu looking better every year, syracuse actually  playing competitive football again.
and unless ucla finds their pete carroll that isn't changing in a hurry.
reputation: 131 i root
powered by mybb, © 2002-2012mybb group.
the big 12 and the sec are more willing to go beyond what would be considered  their "region".
the listing you have, especially below the  kings, is very fluid and can change in a couple of short years.
if by successful, you mean survive, sure.
they were the last two to make my kings bb list, but i think they have enough separation from the other barons.
football kings: alabama, florida, florida state, louisiana state, miami, michigan,  nebraska, notre dame, ohio state, oklahoma, penn state, southern cal, texas barons: arkansas, auburn, clemson, colorado, georgia, georgia tech,  oregon, tennessee, texas a&m, ucla, virginia tech, west virginia, wisconsin basketball kings: arizona, connecticut, duke, florida,  indiana, kansas, kentucky, louisville, michigan state, north carolina, ohio  state, syracuse, ucla barons: arkansas, cincinnati, illinois,  maryland, memphis, michigan, missouri, north carolina state, notre dame,  oklahoma state, pittsburgh, purdue, stanford, tennessee, texas, west virginia,  wisconsin i'm sure the above is not a perfect listing, but i believe  that it is a solid enough listing that it might give us an insight into how  each conference is viewed.
string posts: 1,403 joined: nov 2010 reputation: 51 i root for: syracuse location: post: #4 re: revisiting kings and barons both football and basketball neil, i generally agree with your listing and i agree with hm that a few others have left their former glory for lower status (pitt, syracuse).
as to the target schools, you might be able to expand that to include potential 16 team leagues: pac 12: texas, oklahoma, tag-alongs accepted as long as texas is in the package acc: notre dame, pick-em big 12: florida state, clemsonm louisville, cincy, afa, byu sec: florida state, clemson, wvu, oklahoma, texas b1g: notre dame, pick-em (as long as academics are respectable) both the pac 12, b1g and the acc are more limited by geography, though this limitation is self imposed by the respective conference.
ultimately, for the acc (since this is an acc board), the league truly needs fsu and miami to get back to being kings on the field as well as off the field.
i think the sec going into texas was a natural western extension of their geography since that state borders both arkansas and louisiana.
for: syracuse location: post:#8 re: revisiting kings and barons both football and basketball (04-08-2012 10:00 pm)texanmark
* n. carolina & n.c.
(login — register) - search - member list - help - chat csnbbs / accbbs / acc conference talk / acc conference talk 1 2 3 4 5 ... 32
sadly, it wasn't that long that ga tech was a baron on the way to  king status.
the listing you have, especially below the kings,  is very fluid and can change in a couple of short years.
as for expansion targets, i left the sec and big out of it since they don't 'need' to expand.
also, i tried to balance the two kings list with 13 programs each.
the pac-12 - texas and oklahoma the acc - notre dame the big 12 - florida state and clemson ultimately, for the acc (since this is an acc board), the league truly needs  fsu and miami to get back to being kings on the field as well as off the field.
and this time i would like to add a separate listing of kings and  barons in basketball as well.
pm re: revisiting kings and  barons both football and basketball neil, i generally  agree with your listing and i agree with hm that a few others have left their  former glory for lower status (pitt, syracuse).
theme by decro_rules for college sports network.
the acc and big 12 are in similar situations, although the latter's two kings are more stable than the acc's, the acc's barons are more plentiful.
state, clemson, louisville, cincy, afa, byu sec: florida state, clemson,  wvu, oklahoma, texas b1g: notre dame, pick-em (as long as academics are  respectable) both the pac 12, b1g and the acc are more limited by  geography, though this limitation is self imposed by the respective conference.
string posts: 1,251 joined: mar 2008 reputation: 22 i root for: carolina location: post: #3 re: revisiting kings and barons both football and basketball (04-08-2012 12:39
as with the kings, it is easier for  a former baron to be elevated back to baron status than it is to become a baron  for the first time.
florida has a .700 winning % in the ncaas, 2 ncs, 4 ffs, and 6 elite 8s.
as to the target schools, you might be able to expand that to include potential 16 team leagues: pac 12: texas, oklahoma, tag-alongs accepted as long as texas is in the package acc: notre dame, pick-em big 12: florida state, clemson, louisville, cincy, afa, byu sec: florida state, clemson, wvu, oklahoma, texas b1g: notre dame, pick-em (as long as academics are respectable)
revisiting kings and barons both football and basketball contact us | csnbbs | return to top | return to content | lite (archive) mode | rss syndication csn - contact us - csnpressbox - csnwiki csnbbs forums - the sports bar - the spin room - conference realignment - the babes accbbs - acc conference talk - ticket exchange - duke - georgia tech - north carolina - pitt - syracuse important stuff copyright © 2002-2012 collegiate sports nation bulletin board system (csnbbs), all rights reserved csnbbs is an independent fan site and is in no way affiliated to the ncaa or any of the schools and conferences it represents.
the pac-12 - texas and oklahoma the acc - notre dame
again, anyone who wants to make their own lists, i have no problem with that.
revisiting kings and barons both football and  basketball
state have both flirted with baron status in the past but don't make the grade now.
both schools have to at  least be listening.
i am more hopeful that the acc is rising with fsu looking better every year, syracuse actually playing competitive football again.
i am more hopeful that the acc  is rising with fsu looking better every year, syracuse actually playing  competitive football again.
while i agree the barons are more fluid than the kings, i think it's still relatively stable as well.
they've been good forever.
* several acc teams were once kings but have fallen to baron (clemson  & ga tech) or lower (pittsburgh).
reputation: 16 i root for: unc/charlotte location: north carolina post: #9 re: revisiting kings and barons both football and basketball from an acc football perspective this makes us look weak...
as for the basketball list, basketball is such a different mindset - i don't know how you can make a kings and barons list and not include programs like g-town, butler, xavier, and
cheers, neil neil, interesting isn't it that the pac 12 and the sec are targeting the same two schools, and that the b1g is targeting the same school as the acc.
sadly, it wasn't that long that ga tech was a baron on the way to king status.
just some opinions & observations: football: * i'd have to say that if fsu & miami are still football kings that you have to include georgia as well.
so georgia, if it were to go on a hot streak for 5-7 years and win another nc they would quickly be elevated back to king (if they aren't a king already), but oregon would need probably two decades or more at their current level with at least 2 ncs to reach king level.
pitt  could easily be elevated from what is the knight level back up to baron status  if they were to have a good 5-7 year run.
today's  landscape pretty much ensures conferences will be looking to extend beyond  their supposed geography of yesteryear.
it's why the fsu and clemson to the big 12 is  intriguing (even though i don't think it will happen).
a 12 team acc might be more attractive to notre dame.
with one  league having three kings and four barons and the other having four kings, one  baron, and two knights that could rise to baron status in michigan state and  iowa, they may choose to do so, but they don't need to.
it also gives us insight into why the conferences not named the sec and the big have targeted who they have targeted for any remaining expansion.
this site monetizes links.
the acc on the  otherhand is well positioned as a 12 team league if fsu or clemson (or both)  were to leave.
04-08-2012 11:03 pm « next oldest | next newest » pages (3): 1 2 3 next » - view a printable version - send this thread to a friend - subscribe to this thread user(s) browsing this thread: 1 guest(s) csnbbs / accbbs / acc conference talk / acc conference talk 1 2 3 4 5 ... 32
florida as a king too looks suspect.
revisiting kings and barons both football and basketball pages (3): 1 2 3 next » thread rating: threaded mode | linear mode - 1 votes - 5
it's why the fsu and clemson to the big 12 is intriguing (even though i don't think it will happen).
but it would be a severely weakened acc which would quickly become the equivalent of the big east in the current football heirarchy.
just some opinions  & observations: football: * i'd have to say that if fsu  & miami are still football kings that you have to include georgia as well.
for: syracuse location: post:#5 re: revisiting kings and barons both football and basketball (04-08-2012 04:41 pm)htownorange wrote: neil, i generally agree with your listing and i agree with hm that a few others have left their former glory for lower status (pitt, syracuse).
for: syracuse location: post:#1 revisiting kings and barons both football and basketball every once in a while i like to re-visit the topic of kings and barons (as mandel calls them) in football.
and this time i would like  to add a separate listing of kings and barons in basketball as well.
cheers, re: revisiting kings and barons  both football and basketball nice thread.
wrote: arizona teetering on the edge...maybe baron status.
and the acc supposedly tested the waters with both texas and notre dame, showing a willingness to go beyond their perceived geography.
pm)omniorange wrote: every once in a while i like to re-visit the topic of kings and barons (as mandel calls them) in football.
both schools have to at least be listening.
csn menu - collegiate sports nation - csnbbs - csnpressbox - csnwiki - info - acceptable use policy (aup) - advertise - donations - extras - chat - crappies - funnies - linux users group - csnbbs everywhere - propaganda - road trip - skunkworks - vitality - support - lounge - sports bar - spin room - conference realignment - pro sports - conferences - acc - big east - big ten - big xii - c-usa - mac - mwc - pac-10 - sec - sun belt - wac - ---------- - asun - ---------- - a10 - hl - mvc - i-aa - accbbs - main boards conference talk ticket exchange smack talk atlantic schools boston college clemson florida state maryland nc state wake forest coastal schools duke georgia tech miami north carolina virginia virginia tech newbies pitt syracuse accbbs blogs a change in the landscape accbbs favorites acc football rx matt's college sports media blog current time: 04-11-2012, 11:34 pm
football kings: alabama, florida, florida state, louisiana state, miami, michigan, nebraska, notre dame, ohio state, oklahoma, penn state, southern cal, texas barons: arkansas, auburn, clemson, colorado, georgia, georgia tech, oregon, tennessee, texas a&m, ucla, virginia tech, west virginia, wisconsin basketball kings: arizona, connecticut, duke, florida, indiana, kansas, kentucky, louisville, michigan state, north carolina, ohio state, syracuse, ucla barons: arkansas, cincinnati, illinois, maryland, memphis, michigan, missouri, north carolina state, notre dame, oklahoma state, pittsburgh, purdue, stanford, tennessee, texas, west virginia, wisconsin i'm sure the above is not a perfect listing, but i believe that it is a solid enough listing that it might give us an insight into how each conference is viewed.
cheers, neil neil, interesting  isn't it that the pac 12 and the sec are targeting the same two schools, and  that the b1g is targeting the same school as the acc.
as i said, the list isn't perfect but on the flip side my thinking included the following...
where are ye', bobby cremins?
while a louisville would need to go two decades of consistently getting to 9-10 wins a year for them to go to the next level.
cheers, neil 04-08-2012 12:39 pm hokie mark special teams posts: 597 joined: sep 2011 reputation: 38 i root for: vt location: upstate sc post: #2 re: revisiting kings and barons both football and basketball nice thread.
and this time i would like to add a separate listing of kings and barons in basketball as well.
04-08-2012 04:41 pm omniorange heisman posts: 7,048 joined: apr 2004
it also  gives us insight into why the conferences not named the sec and the big have  targeted who they have targeted for any remaining expansion.
they're programs that are very much a part of the movers and shakers of basketball in the public mind and awareness now.
the pac-12, despite it's great tv contracts knows that it needs to expand at some point since they only have 1 football king.
and the acc supposedly tested the waters with both texas and notre dame,  showing a willingness to go beyond their perceived geography.
as with the kings, it is easier for a former baron to be elevated back to baron status than it is to become a baron for the first time.
the listing you have, especially below the kings, is very fluid and can change in a couple of short years.
cheers, neil 04-08-2012 06:00 pm texanmark heisman posts: 8,413 joined: jul 2003 reputation:172 i root
cheers, neil 04-08-2012 05:55 pm omniorange heisman posts: 7,048 joined: apr 2004
as for expansion targets, i  left the sec and big out of it since they don't 'need' to expand.
pm)omniorange wrote:  every once in a  while i like to re-visit the topic of kings and barons (as mandel calls them)
cheers, neil i think the 5 blue bloods are a step above the rest of the kings.
for the latter i am not including non-fbs playing  members suchas georgetown, villanova, and marquette which would all be at least  baron status.
as to  the target schools, you might be able to expand that to include potential 16  team leagues: pac 12: texas, oklahoma, tag-alongs accepted as long as  texas is in the package acc: notre dame, pick-em big 12: florida
cheers, neil (this post was last modified: 04-08-2012 10:28 pm by omniorange.)
maybe add georgetown to the barons  list.
for the  latter i am not including non-fbs playing members suchas georgetown, villanova,  and marquette which would all be at least baron status.
my list wasn't meant to be the be-all and end-all on the discussion, just a starting point.
the  pac-12 - texas and oklahoma the acc - notre dame the big 12 -  florida state and clemson ultimately, for the acc (since this is an  acc board), the league truly needs fsu and miami to get back to being kings on  the field as well as off the field.
i see missouri as more big ten country than sec, but then it took  the sec some time to decide upon #14 after they couldn't persuade two other  logical geographical extensions as takers (a team from virginia or a team from  north carolina).
for: syracuse location: san antonio, tx post: #7 re: revisiting kings and barons both football and basketball arizona teetering on the edge...maybe baron status.
basketball: * looks about right.
for: syracuse location: post: #6 re: revisiting kings and barons both football and basketball (04-08-2012 03:08
i think the pac-12 desperately wants to extend beyond their current geography to get into both texas and oklahoma, moreso the former than the latter.
the acc on the otherhand is well positioned as a 12 team leagueif fsu or clemson (or both) were to leave.
pm post: #3 re: revisiting kings and barons both football and basketball (04-08-2012 12:39
the big 12 - florida state and clemson
i think the sec going into texas was a natural western  extension of their geography since that state borders both arkansas and  louisiana.
string posts: 1,746 joined: jun 2007 reputation: 28 i root for: virginia tech location: earth post: #10 re: revisiting kings and barons both football and basketball (04-08-2012 10:28 pm)omniorange wrote: (04-08-2012 10:00 pm)texanmark
maybe add georgetown to the barons list.
04-08-2012 10:00 pm omniorange heisman posts: 7,048 joined: apr 2004
while a louisville would need to go  two decades of consistently getting to 9-10 wins a year for them to go to the  next level.
the acc and big 12 are in similar  situations, although the latter's two kings are more stable than the acc's, the  acc's barons are more plentiful.
04-08-2012 04:41 pm re: revisiting kings and barons both football and  basketball (04-08-2012 04:41 pm)htownorange wrote:  neil, i  generally agree with your listing and i agree with hm that a few others have  left their former glory for lower status (pitt, syracuse).
every once in a while i like to re-visit the topic of  kings and barons (as mandel calls them) in football.