one would think that out of all of them, he would have the most.
however, looking at his stats, they can’t be saying that because of his scoring ability; as it is average at best with 12.7ppg.
more articles by blake zitman » 5 comments » sports news - kansas, kentucky to meet in po... - ex-nfl qb ryan leaf arrested 2... - petrino crashes motorcycle, ex... - beckett goes to texas to have ... - nfl, nflpa meeting on saints b... subscribe to gsb via email enter your email address to subscribe to gsb and receive notifications of new posts by email.
i agree with your point.
while westbrook outscores williams, he has nowhere close to the amount of  assists.
check out his stuff, its #forreal 5 days ago copyright © 2012 got sports?
a solid young blogger.
- he's a quality player who's marital status is getting annoying.
the number that pops out is his assist total which is 10.7.
my favorite teams are the new jersey nets, miami dolphins, new york yankees, and rutgets scarlet knights.
five double-digit seeds that could make noise college hoops: big east and acc award races penn state legend joe paterno passes away at 85 midseason acc hoops storylines 2012 heisman trophy early front runners more » more » more » more » meta - register - log in - entries rss - comments rss - wordpress.org polls your thoughts on kris humphries?
written by: blake zitman tags: slider a common point of discussion that always seems to appear is the fight for the top point guards in the nba.
- he's a scrub who shouldn't have broken up with kim.
the marriage was only for money.
- danny ringel well written, but ill have to respectfully disagree with this article - danny ringel just because i feel that rando is still better just my opinion though - http://www.facebook.com/people/jake-karlsberg/1294351190 jake karlsberg nice article.
analysis - more - "thanks andrew" - brandon hao - "nice article brandon" - andrew nelson - "agrreeeddd" - andrew nelson nba - basketball analysis (26) - basketball news (12) - heat (1) - knicks (4) - nets (2) - summarizing the lin-derella story - 2012 nba playoff push - who really came out on top of the ellis for bogut trade -
currently the new jersey nets sit tied with the raptors for last in the  atlantic division with just a mere 16 wins.
even though the nets do have a minimal amount of wins, deron has successfully made other players better with his passing ability.
this is because he is playing besides arguably one of the best players in the nba in kevin durant.
- nba debate: why david stern should shorten season for good - fayne’s overtime winner sends devils home in control of 4th seed hot reads - about - the staff - become a writer - contact us - connect with us - facebook - twitter - tout - spreecast - privacy policy - mlb - teams - yankees - mets - phillies - astros - baseball news - baseball analysis - nba - got nba?
also, turnovers have proven to be a very big problem for  westbrook thus far.
what should we expect from jason bay?
as a result to the injury, deron was forced to find other options in order to keep his assist total high.
russell westbrook is averaging 24 ppg, 4.5 rpg, and 5.4 apg.
brook was the nets best scoring option last year as he averaged a stellar 20 ppg.
our last victim is oklahoma city thunder guard russell westbrook.
nets rookie marshon brooks is averaging 12.8 ppg, big man kris humphries is averaging 13.5 ppg, and guard anthony morrow is averaging 12.6 ppg.
while westbrook outscores williams, he has nowhere close to the amount of assists.
while there is no doubt that chris paul and derrick rose hold the top two when ranking point guards, the next three players have not been as clear.
these three guards are deron williams, russell westbrook, and rajon rondo.
view results loading ... latest tweets - andrew nelson nice article!
also, turnovers have proven to be a very big problem for westbrook thus far.
while this is a  very high number, there are some key factors that need to be considered.
up to this point, deron williams is averaging 21.9 ppg, 3.3 rpg, and 8.2  apg.
however, deron williams has still found a way to dish out 8.2 apg.
why deron williams is better than rajon rondo and russell westbrook - nba trade rumors: dwight howard headed to the nets…no matter what polls are professional sports players overpaid?
send to email address your name your email address cancel post was not sent - check your email addresses!
many people are looking forward to seeing these guards clash for the rest  of the season.
view results loading ... our twitter - as kansas defeats ohio state, the championship game is set.
unlike deron williams, rondo is playing amongst three arguable future hall of famers in paul pierce, ray allen, and kevin garnett.
nba trade rumors: dwight howard headed to the nets…no matter what first round nfl draft picks we will be scratching our heads at miami dolphins: offseason update four rooks who could instantly have an impact on fantasy football houston texans: 4 players who need to step up for the texans to win a super bowl kendall wright’s draft stock soars after pro-day a rebuilding year for mets in 2012 mets opening day news and notes the new york mets current status, what improvements were made in the offseason?
rajon rondo is averaging 12.7 ppg, 4.7 rpg, and 10.7 apg.
throughout the season, the nets have been dealing with multiple injury problems.
as a result  to the injury, deron was forced to find other options in order to keep his  assist total high.
these three guards are deron williams, russell  westbrook, and rajon rondo.
nets rookie marshon brooks is averaging 12.8 ppg, big man kris humphries is  averaging 13.5 ppg, and guard anthony morrow is averaging 12.6 ppg.
all of which are  extremely talented scorers.
why deron williams is better than rajon rondo and russell westbrook nba march 26, 2012 5 comments » why deron williams is better than rajon rondo and russell westbrook more articles byblake zitman »
(photo by chris chambers/getty images) share this:
up to this point, deron williams is averaging 21.9 ppg, 3.3 rpg, and 8.2 apg.
all...http://t.co/9aw4fq6m 5 days ago - brandon jacobs has signed with the 49ers.
rondo (photo by gary dineen/nbae via getty images) many say that rajon rondo of the boston celtics easily is the third best  point guard in the league behind rose and paul.
blog all rights reserved.
- teams - basketball analysis - basketball news - nfl - teams - football news - football analysis - fantasy football - nfl draft 2012 - nhl - teams - hockey analysis - hockey news - college - college basketball - college football - college soccer - soccer - teams & leagues - champions league - barcelona - fc porto - portugal national team - ny red bulls - real madrid - sl benfica - soccer news - soccer analysis - golf - other - live shows - nba » - why deron williams is better than rajon rondo and russell westbrook nba march 26, 2012 5 comments » why deron williams is better than rajon rondo and russell westbrook more articles byblake zitman »
the biggest one is the loss of big man, brook lopez.
(photo by chris chambers/getty images) - share this: - facebook - - stumbleupon - - email about the author blake zitman i am a freshman in high school and love sports.
last year's postseason overtime rules will apply to the regular season.
throughout the season, the nets have been dealing with multiple injury  problems.
while there is no doubt that chris paul and  derrick rose hold the top two when ranking point guards, the next three players  have not been as clear.
many people are looking forward to seeing these guards clash for the rest of the season.
brook was the  nets best scoring option last year as he averaged a stellar 20 ppg.
however, looking at his stats,  they can’t be saying that because of his scoring ability; as it is  average at best with 12.7ppg.
however, deron williams has  still found a way to dish out 8.2 apg.
as you can  see, deron’s great passing capability has made everyone around him look  better.
all of which are extremely talented scorers.
even though the nets do have a minimal amount of wins, deron has  successfully made other players better with his passing ability.
rondo (photo by gary dineen/nbae via getty images) many say that rajon rondo of the boston celtics easily is the third best point guard in the league behind rose and paul.
as you can see, deron’s great passing capability has made everyone around him look better.
written by: blake zitman tags:  slider a common point of discussion that always seems to appear is the fight for  the top point guards in the nba.
currently the new jersey nets sit tied with the raptors for last in the atlantic division with just a mere 16 wins.
while this is a very high number, there are some key factors that need to be considered.
join 4 other subscribers - a whole lot of hype about nothing - nfl mock draft 1.0 - why the michael pineda-jesus montero trade was a win-win - more - a 2012 new york yankees season preview - disappointing semis lead to identical finals - sony ericsson open 2012
http://t.co/3n2occnr 3 days ago - new rules for the nfl; 1.
popular nba nfl mlb college summarizing the lin-derella story 2012 nba playoff push who really came out on top of the ellis for bogut trade why deron williams is better than rajon rondo and russell westbrook
5 days ago - #givebradashorty
who you got, jayhawks or wildcats?1 day ago - what were your thoughts on the opening series in japan?
email check failed, please try again sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
- - a rebuilding year for mets
this  is because he is playing besides arguably one of the best players in the nba in  kevin durant.
on top of that he is averaging a very respectable 22 ppg.
unlike deron williams, rondo is playing amongst three arguable future hall  of famers in paul pierce, ray allen, and kevin garnett.
2012 nl east predictions cinderella?
in 2012 - what should we expect from jason bay?
this makes rondo’s job a lot easier.