“if you want to play in the post, probably him,” vogler said of hubbard.
both have spoken with grant, but said there was never a serious discussion about switching sports.
that’s what you need to  ask,” hubbard said.
- cheerleaders on team usa for international competition - the great divide: old money vs. new money - jack blankenship for ua president [video] - classical identity often overlooked - alabama in cuba study abroad program, a rare opportunity for students - ‘tuscaloosa runs this’ to be printed - bama hosts warren hayes - cartoon march madness – final four polls do you think the supreme court should overturn obama’s healthcare plan?
head coach nick saban discourages players from  playing basketball in their time off.
“i choose not to play pickup in the offseason for reasons like  that,” vogler said.
hubbard said it was a difficult choice, but in the end decided he wanted to play football.
both sports require balance, strength and speed.
if a guy’s going one way, you’re going to try and beat him the other way.”
“me and [vogler] have had some good battles in life, especially in basketball.
“vogler will tell you, i was probably the first person to dunk on him, but then he came back on and threw my shot in the stands.”
posts - add new - powered by wordpress - designed by gabfire themes share this on facebook
popular posts grissom back on cmt for ‘southern nights’
running back blake sims practiced briefly  tuesday, but has missed every practice since spring break when he tweaked his  hip playing pickup basketball.
“hopefully if i’m lucky enough to get a touchdown here in my career, i’ll say it was a lot better than taking a dunk.”
“if you want to play in the post, probably him,” vogler said of  hubbard.
but vogler and hubbard have been battling it out long before the two joined the alabama football team.
both sports require balance, strength and  speed.
“i talked to him a little when i first got here,” vogler said.
a man has to be accountable for his choices, and i just went one way and decided that’s the way i was going to go.”
“i choose not to play pickup in the offseason for reasons like that,” vogler said.
view results loading ... - home - news - announcements - briefs - metro/state - national - sports - baseball - basketball - basketball (m) - basketball (w) - club sports - cross country - cross country (m) - cross country (w) - fishing - football - golf - gymnastics - rowing - soccer - softball - swimming & diving - swimming & diving (m) - swimming & diving (w) - tennis - track & field - track & field (m) - track & field (w) - volleyball - lifestyles - dance - fashion - food - games - literature - theatre - tv - opinion - videos - print edition - classifieds - advertising - contact us - gameday - changing tides - classifieds - print edition - current poll - join the cw - advertising - contact us © 2012, ↑ the crimson white log in-
running back blake sims practiced briefly tuesday, but has missed every practice since spring break when he tweaked his hip playing pickup basketball.
the choice wasn’t so hard for vogler.
both have spoken with  grant, but said there was never a serious discussion about switching sports.
smith tight end brian vogler and linebacker adrian hubbard are not strangers by any means.
by marc torrence  on april 11, 2012 12:06 am cst share tweet
if a guy’s going one  way, you’re going to try and beat him the other way.”
“who’s better at what position?
for many dual athletes like hubbard and vogler, playing basketball can help  with skills on the football field.
“it’s just weight distribution.
hubbard said he had offers from schools in the sec, acc and pac-12 to play basketball.
cheerleaders on team usa for international competition the great divide: old money vs. new money jack blankenship for ua president [video] classical identity often overlooked alabama in cuba study abroad program, a rare opportunity for students ‘tuscaloosa runs this’ to be printed bama hosts warren hayes cartoon march madness – final four polls do you think the supreme court should overturn obama’s  healthcare plan?
the scene - theatre - top news - tornado ap stories - tornado coverage - tornado perspectives - track & field - track & field (m) - track & field (w) - tv - ua response - videos - volleyball - world - your views meta - log in - entries rss - comments rss - wordpress.org serving the university of alabama since 1894 - home - news - announcements - briefs - metro/state - national - sports - baseball - basketball - basketball (m) - basketball (w) - club sports - cross country - cross country (m) - cross country (w) - fishing - football - golf - gymnastics - rowing - soccer - softball - swimming & diving - swimming & diving (m) - swimming & diving (w) - tennis - track & field - track & field (m) - track & field (w) - volleyball - lifestyles - dance - fashion - food - games - literature - theatre - tv - opinion - videos - print edition - classifieds - advertising - contact us football duo brings basketball background to field by marc torrence on april 11, 2012 12:06 am cst share tweet the university of alabama football team practiced tuesday afternoon outside coleman coliseum./cw|megan
“hopefully if i’m lucky enough to get a  touchdown here in my career, i’ll say it was a lot better than taking a  dunk.”
“sometimes when you’re watching the basketball games it does get a  little frustrating, but my primary focus when i got here was to play football.
“sometimes when you’re watching the basketball games it does get a little frustrating, but my primary focus when i got here was to play football.
there are also potential liabilities to playing basketball, even pickup basketball, for football players.
“it was tough,” he said.
football duo brings basketball background to field
hubbard said he had offers from schools in the sec, acc and pac-12  to play basketball.
for many dual athletes like hubbard and vogler, playing basketball can help with skills on the football field.
the two said they still miss the hardwood, however.
that’s what you need to ask,” hubbard said.
popular posts - grissom back on cmt for ‘southern nights’ - the mystery of duron carter: where is the high-powered recruit?
he was even recruited by alabama basketball coach anthony grant when he coached at vcu.
“if you want to play out on the wing, knock down a couple  of threes, i’ll be hanging out out there.”
both players were highly recruited in basketball and football coming out of high school.
so i’m going to keep playing football and worry about basketball when  i’m done with this sport.”
but vogler and hubbard have been battling it out long before the two joined  the alabama football team.
the two often find themselves  lined up opposite each other in practice, whether they’re in coverage on  a passing play or locked up in a blocking battle during a run.
he was even recruited by alabama basketball coach anthony  grant when he coached at vcu.
“it was a tough choice, but when it gets down to it, would you rather  dunk on somebody or get the thrill of a touchdown in front of 102,000  people?”
head coach nick saban discourages players from playing basketball in their time off.
“basketball is just like football and vice versa,” hubbard  said.
both players were highly recruited in basketball and football coming out of  high school.
“basketball is just like football and vice versa,” hubbard said.
so who’s the better basketball player between the two?
“but growing up, being a man, you have choices to make.
“it was a tough choice, but when it gets down to it, would you rather dunk on somebody or get the thrill of a touchdown in front of 102,000 people?”
the university of alabama football team practiced tuesday afternoon outside  coleman coliseum./cw|megan smith tight end brian vogler and linebacker  adrian hubbard are not strangers by any means.
so i’m going to keep playing football and worry about basketball when i’m done with this sport.”
hubbard said it was a difficult choice, but in the end decided he wanted to  play football.
recent posts - white team wins steak dinner, a-day 24-15 - print edition – april 12, 2012 - students find acting opportunities as tv extras - out-of-state students band together in new group - if the tide were the x-men recent comments - robert_foster on remember ‘innocent until proven guilty’ in trayvon martin case - brad erthal on remember ‘innocent until proven guilty’ in trayvon martin case - dropping_facts on remember ‘innocent until proven guilty’ in trayvon martin case - austingaddis on remember ‘innocent until proven guilty’ in trayvon martin case - roman122 on sunday school and sustainable energy archives - april 2012 - march 2012 - february 2012 - january 2012 - december 2011 - november 2011 - october 2011 - september 2011 - august 2011 - july 2011 - june 2011 - may 2011 - april 2011 - march 2011 - february 2011 - january 2011 - december 2010 - november 2010 - october 2010 - september 2010 - august 2010 - july 2010 - june 2010 - april 2010 - march 2010 - february 2010 - january 2010 categories - affected communities - announcements - art - baseball - basketball - basketball (m) - basketball (w) - blogs - briefs - campus - campus pulse - cartoons - city response - club sports - columns - cross country - cross country (m) - cross country (w) - cw double-take - dance - election - fashion - featured story - film - fishing - food - football - foster - games - games & puzzles - golf - golf (m) - golf (w) - gymnastics - homecoming - interactive - letters to the editor - lifestyles - literature - metro/state - multimedia - music - national - news - news?
the two often find themselves lined up opposite each other in practice, whether they’re in coverage on a passing play or locked up in a blocking battle during a run.
there are also potential liabilities to playing basketball, even pickup  basketball, for football players.
“if you want to play out on the wing, knock down a couple of threes, i’ll be hanging out out there.”
“it’s just too big of a liability to get hurt playing basketball.”
a man has to be accountable for his choices, and i  just went one way and decided that’s the way i was going to go.”
- newsletter - newsroom notes - obituaries - online exclusive - opinion - opinions - our view - photos - print edition - recovery efforts - rowing - slideshows - soccer - softball - sports - swimming & diving - swimming & diving (m) - swimming & diving (w) - tennis - tennis (m) - tennis (w) -
the mystery of duron carter: where is the high-powered recruit?
“vogler will tell you, i was probably the first person to dunk on him,  but then he came back on and threw my shot in the stands.”
“but growing up, being a man,  you have choices to make.
“it’s just too big of a liability to get  hurt playing basketball.”
we played basketball way back in the days,” hubbard said.
“me and [vogler] have had some good battles in life, especially in  basketball.