with six straight national  championships and counting, sec football now casts a more enormous shadow than  ever before.
he walked off as an acc legend.
now let's rewind to the previous night when the  gators playedkentucky in rupp arena.
at  duke, it's now one of the greatest in college basketball lore.
let me put it in a way helmet-headed uf fans will  understand: rivers' deep trey over the outstretched arms of unc 7-footertyler  zeller is the basketball equivalent of tim tebow's jump pass against lsu.
back in  the 1980s and '90s — when charles barkley,shaq and others were roaming  the hardwood — sec basketball was much better across the board than it is  today.
nelson, dupay, roberson, green, and calathes never made it to the nba or had minimal impact.
- shopping - events - obituaries - traffic - blogs - columnists - subscribe - send a news tip - el sentinel - contact us - local - obituaries - breaking - traffic - politics - michelle parker - orange - seminole - lake - volusia - osceola - crime - law - casey anthony - weather - radar - get email alerts - hurricane hq - hurricane guide - hurricane blog - orange - seminole - lake - osceola - volusia - marine - sports - orlando magic - nba all-star game - varsity - gators - knights - seminoles - recruiting - nascar - golf - tickets - fan shop - business - deals - personal finance - your career - technology - real estate - disney - frugal force - blog-o-nomics - social tech - entertainment - events - restaurants - bars & clubs - music - arts & theater - movies - movie times - tv - celebrity - horoscope - comics / puzzles - life/family - schools - growing bolder - moms at work - food/recipes - home/garden - fashion - religion - weddings - pets - celebrations - health - breast cancer awareness - vital signs - cancer awareness - dental health - diabetes - fitness - medicare guide - nutrition - travel - vacation deals - cruises - getaways - attractions - daily disney - beach - golf - springs - legoland - bike week - news - opinion - editorials - letters to the editor - other views - ticked off!
zeller fell out of position, and got his hands up too late or rivers would still have ball in his teeth.
for terms & conditions call 877.571.0774.
he is generally considered a punk with a big ego cause daddie's rich.
check this out download the free ucf sports app now available in the app store orlando dunkman: make him shoot, pass and of course dunk!
"i liked florida, but you only get one chance to get it right," austin told me last year, a few days after leading winter park high to its second consecutive big-school state championship.
indiana's lucky shot against kentucky was the shot of the year.
and donovan has not won just one; he has won two.
those will cause comments to generate an error message or not to post. registration on orlandosentinel.com is required to comment.
mbianchi@tribune.com.
how many shots did he take in that game?
the son of former magic and current boston celtics coach doc rivers, austin scored 29 points and  buried a buzzer-beating game-winning 3-pointer against the no. 5-ranked tar  heels that already has etched his name in the annals of the hallowed duke-north  carolina rivalry.
it is why i believe donovan is the greatest coach — either football or basketball — in this state's history.
rivers, the winter park high grad and arguably the greatest prep basketball player in orlando history, walked onto the court at the university ofnorth carolina's dean dome wednesday night as a duke freshman.
north carolina and puke aren't a big deal this year.
van gundy spoke to the press after orlando played on feb. 17 sign-up for text alerts get free orlando sentinel sports alerts sent to your mobile phone.
we'd love to see a tribune newspaper website
rivers, the winter park high grad and arguably  the greatest prep basketball player in orlando history, walked onto the court  at the university ofnorth carolina's dean dome wednesday night as a duke  freshman.
you will receive no more than 5 messages/week per alert list.
and donovan  has not won just one; he has won two.
all were prominent players before coming to uf. denhunter1 at 5:58 pm february 10, 2012 please remember that bitchanci doesn't really watch or understand college basketball.
donovan can coach with the best of the best, but one thing he will never be  able to overcome is history and heritage.
listen to his  radio show every weekday from 6 to 9 a.m. on 740-am.
" it happened on college basketball's biggest platform and in college basketball's most storied rivalry.
it's nobody's fault; it's just the way fans were brought up.
yes, donovan gets his share of top recruits, but nothing like the revolving door of mcdonald's all-americans on the rosters formike krzyzewski at duke and roy williams at north carolina.
(here are the full legal terms you agree to by posting a comment.)
speaking selfishly, it would have been great for local sports fans  (and writers) if austin rivers had decided to stay in-state to play college  basketball, but it's now easy to see why he made the decision he did.
" it happened on college basketball's biggest  platform and in college basketball's most storied rivalry.
in fact, you could even call it an endorsement of what donovan has accomplished.
over 50% off choice of waxing treatments at velvet wax spa ($100 value) deals from goshoppingorlando.com print great coupons with our sentinel saver!
so florida has done more with less basketball talent, explain that dookies.
listen to his radio show every weekday from 6 to 9 a.m. on 740-am.
- mike bianchi - - bio | e-mail | recent columns - related - video:
follow him on twitter at bianchiwrites.
college basketball just  matters more at duke than it does in florida just as college football matters  more at florida than it does at duke.
the sentinel makes no guarantee of comments' factual accuracy.
there was actually a time in the 1990s whenalabama had more players in  thenba than north carolina and duke.
now let's rewind to the previous night when the gators playedkentucky in rupp arena.
not that sec schools don't invest millions in their basketball programs, but all thatbcs money simply cannot buy passion, emotion and devotion.
introducing orlando dunkman: make him shoot, pass and of course dunk!
college basketball just matters more at duke than it does in florida just as college football matters more at florida than it does at duke.
textstop to cancel or text help for info.
* mobile phone (required) sign me up for the following lists: sports - orlando sentinel sports alerts ucf - ucf sports alerts magic - orlando magic alerts
copyright © 2012, orlando sentinel os-bianchi-austin-rivers-0210-20120209 orlando dunkman: make him shoot, pass and of course dunk!
"there's no better stage than the duke stage."
rubengarzon at 4:26 pm february 10, 2012 duke basketball ain't all that, they get the top recruits every year, but since billy donovan took over the gators basketball program in 1996, florida and duke has the same amount of ncaa championships.
remember when bitchanci said that the gators were 'the roman empire of college basketball', and their dynasty would live for decades?
recruit - orlando sentinel recruiting news nascar - nascar alerts varsity - orlando sentinel varsity alerts fsu - fsu sports alerts uf - uf sports alerts *you can also sign up by texting any of the above keywords to 43886 .
to: - home > sports mike bianchi: this is the reason austin rivers picked duke over gators he beats unc with shot heard 'round college basketball world (http://www.youtube.com/user/espn / february 9, 2012)
it was just a game, though espn wants to sell it as much as the can, and 60 percent of espn employees went to unc or puke.
if rivers had made that same buzzer-beater  to defeat the no. 1-ranked wildcats and end their 48-game home winning streak,  you know what gators fans would be talking about today?
message and data rates may apply.
mike bianchi sports commentary 10:46 p.m. est, february 9, 2012 now we know why austin rivers changed his mind and choseduke over florida.
breaking news, scores, analysis next story » - sarah palin is a fan of jeremy lin and linsanity - kelvin taylor commits to gators; orlando heavily represented at florida junior day comments (16)
back in the 1980s and '90s — when charles barkley,shaq and others were roaming the hardwood — sec basketball was much better across the board than it is today.
click here to sign up for our e-mail newsletters!
connect with us twitter facebook rss newsletters blogs text alerts advertisement 50% off frozen yogurt & more at gurtzberry in winter park ($20 value)
the fact that billy d. has built an elite college basketball  program in a state where the sport is largely ignored is incredible.
reader contributions from our partner, bleacher report more sports coverage on bleacher report - grading every mlb team's top hitting acquisition - things to see in college football before you die - the top 25 undrafted players in the nfl today - grading every team's top pitching acquisition - cfb matchups
it is why  i believe donovan is the greatest coach — either football or basketball  — in this state's history.
it was because of moments like this.
- columnists - our blogs - your blogs - cartoons - videos - surveillance videos - viral videos - news videos - orlando magic videos - sports videos - entertainment videos - political videos - home delivery - place an ad - jobs - find a job - post your resume - post a job - top 100 companies - sentinel careers - higher education - cars - buy a car - autos a-z - research cars - find a dealer - other vehicles & boats - real estate - new construction - search: foreclosures database - apts & rentals - commercial property - find a realtor - what's selling - sell a home - apts & rentals - foreclosures - new construction - apts & rentals - find a realtor - what's selling - sell a home - classifieds - jobs - cars - real estate - apts & rentals - foreclosures - public notices advanced search - hot topics: - gary carter - daytona 500 - jeremy lin - kate upton - sports text alerts advanced search x - include all of these words: - include any of these words: - include this exact phrase: - exclude: - select a date range this week past 30 days past 3 months past year - create a custom date range from:
many coaches have won football national titles in this state, but only one has won a national title in basketball.
- home delivery - place an ad - jobs - cars - real estate - apts & rentals - foreclosures - classifieds - public notices 77° f saturday, feb. 18, 2012 4:22 pm est - home - hot deals
they'd be talking about whether will muschamp can landmaryland prep product stefon diggs, the no. 2 wide receiver prospect in the country, according to rivals.com football has always been king in thesec, but never more than it is now.
second, he wasn't guarded.
at duke, it's now one of the greatest in college basketball lore.
donovan can coach with the best of the best, but one thing he will never be able to overcome is history and heritage.
not that sec schools don't invest millions in their basketball  programs, but all thatbcs money simply cannot buy passion, emotion and devotion.
stan van gundy wraps up the magic's win over the bucks van gundy spoke to the press after orlando played on feb. 17...
it's nobody's fault; it's just the way  fans were brought up.
your eyes are glued to the screen as the high, arcing ball drops through the hoop and your ears are assaulted as dukie, er, dickie vee screams, "oh!
add / view comments | discussion faq tjajtr at 8:50 pm february 12, 2012 i am a gator fan, but how many nba guards has billy d developed outside of jason williams.
in 30 years, old-timers along tobacco road will  be puffing on their marlboros and still be talking about rivers' shot against  north carolina wednesday night.
the shot is already being talked about with the same reverence as great  duke-carolina shots of yesteryear —danny ferry's 75-footer at the buzzer  orjerry stackhouse's dramatic dunk over cherokee parks or chris duhon's reverse  layup.
in fact, you could even call it an endorsement of what donovan has  accomplished.
in 30 years, old-timers along tobacco road will be puffing on their marlboros and still be talking about rivers' shot against north carolina wednesday night.
and this is exactly what austin envisioned when he backed off his oral commitment to sign withbilly donovan's gators and instead signed with coach k and duke.
« previous story more orlando sports news |
let me put it in a way helmet-headed uf fans will understand: rivers' deep trey over the outstretched arms of unc 7-footertyler zeller is the basketball equivalent of tim tebow's jump pass against lsu.
all comments are filtered for vulgar language, for web addresses and for e-mail addresses.
the shot is already being talked about with the same reverence as great duke-carolina shots of yesteryear —danny ferry's 75-footer at the buzzer orjerry stackhouse's dramatic dunk over cherokee parks or chris duhon's reverse layup.
and this is exactly  what austin envisioned when he backed off his oral commitment to sign withbilly  donovan's gators and instead signed with coach k and duke.
he barely knows football.
subscribe to daily deals video:
the son of former magic and current boston celtics coach doc rivers, austin scored 29 points and buried a buzzer-beating game-winning 3-pointer against the no. 5-ranked tar heels that already has etched his name in the annals of the hallowed duke-north carolina rivalry.
at uf, his shot would have been one of the best in gators history.
yes, donovan gets his share of  top recruits, but nothing like the revolving door of mcdonald's all-americans  on the rosters formike krzyzewski at duke and roy williams at north carolina.
first, rivers is a ball hog and a team cancer.
speaking selfishly, it would have been great for local sports fans (and writers) if austin rivers had decided to stay in-state to play college basketball, but it's now easy to see why he made the decision he did.
your  eyes are glued to the screen as the high, arcing ball drops through the hoop  and your ears are assaulted as dukie, er, dickie vee screams, "oh!
the fact that billy d. has built an elite college basketball program in a state where the sport is largely ignored is incredible.
with six straight national championships and counting, sec football now casts a more enormous shadow than ever before.
don't stretch his brain.
copyright © 2012, orlando sentinel
many coaches have won football national titles  in this state, but only one has won a national title in basketball.
sportscenter has replayed it over and over and from every angle.
if rivers had made that same buzzer-beater to defeat the no. 1-ranked wildcats and end their 48-game home winning streak, you know what gators fans would be talking about today?
readers may report inappropriate comments by clicking the report abuse link.
this is not an indictment of donovan's program.
they'd be talking about  whether will muschamp can landmaryland prep product stefon diggs, the no. 2  wide receiver prospect in the country, according to rivals.com football has always been king in thesec, but never more than it is now.
"there's no better stage than  the duke stage."
there was actually a time in the 1990s whenalabama had more players in thenba than north carolina and duke.
duke recruit austin rivers takes a jab at unc - video: boys athlete of the year, austin rivers - video: austin rivers discusses the duke/unc rivalry - photos - pictures: austin rivers helps duke beat north carolina - pictures: austin rivers through the years - check out our sports pictures of the day - topics - college basketball - college sports - basketball - see more topics » - x college football duke blue devils florida gators football north carolina tar heels doc rivers southeastern conference austin rivers kentucky wildcats alabama crimson tide tyler zeller danny ferry chris duhon bowl championship series mike krzyzewski national basketball association maryland terrapins orlando magic billy donovan atlantic coast conference jerry stackhouse shaquille o'neal tennessee volunteers lsu tigers cherokee parks boston celtics eternal moments.
"i  liked florida, but you only get one chance to get it right," austin told  me last year, a few days after leading winter park high to its second  consecutive big-school state championship.