there is something i have wanted to say for a while about big-time college athletics, but it is one of those weird thoughts that is both blindingly obvious and strangely difficult to put into words.
first an apology: this will be more about me than it will be about lorenzo charles.
like a simple fact printed at the  bottom of the score sheet: vcu scored zero fast break points saturday night.
powered by wordpress.com vip
he was driving a bus for elite tours and the crash happened on interstate 40, near raleigh, n.c., where he was beloved.
read more… jamie squire/getty images you have probably heard about the crazy ticket mayhem that has been going on at the university of kansas.
buck o’neil, who lived to be almost 95,  always said that we should save our tears for those who die young.
charles was just 47 years old.
lorenzo charles died on  monday, a shocking thing.
read more… enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
i love  the wall-to-wall games.
whatever danny duffy did on the mound today must  have been blinding; those two guys are not gushers.13 hours ago @royals_report just texted me that he saw two innings from danny duffy  that absolutely blew his mind.14 hours ago
17 hours ago take our poll
butler did not allow a single fast-break point saturday  night.
i love the  great individual performances.
read more… dean smith was a genius on the bench, managing every game with the same attention to detail.
i can’t quite  put it into words what success means, and other things like  “happiness,” or “class,” or “integrity,”
hey, they said, kansas and missouri could meet in the ncaa tournament.
read more… published on apr 02, 2011 read 7 comments terrible timeouts college basketball |  comments i love just about everything about the first week of march madness.
read more… published on jun 05, 2010 add a comment college basketball |  comments jamie squire/getty images you have probably heard about the crazy ticket mayhem that has been going  on at the university of kansas.
and  butler is going back to the national championship game.
lorenzo charles died on monday, a shocking thing.
read more… houston — the wildest story in the history of college basketball might just come down to something simple.
some years ago, i went to a north carolina basketball game with a buddy who despised dean smith.
read more… published on apr 03, 2011 read 5 comments the miracle of butler college basketball |  comments houston —
the browns trailed the oakland raiders 14-12 with less than a minute remaining in their afc divisional playoff game.
he liked to make  the point that both of north carolina’s national championships under dean  smith were haunted by spectacular last-second gaffes by an opponent.
it had something to do with growing up.
buck o’neil, who lived to be almost 95, always said that we should save our tears for those who die young.
it has been a long time since i read a sentence i more strongly disagreed with.
(us presswire) houston — basketball is probably the most predictable of all our team sports.
in case you haven’t heard, well, it seems like the last few years there was this itsy-bitsy little mixup there where at least 17,609 premium basketball tickets and 2,181 premium football tickets were stolen from big time kansas buyers and then sold or used by kansas ticket office employees.
we know what success means, even if we can’t really say what it means.
these are things that come from  wordless places deep inside, things that cannot be defined, things that we  believe transcend definition.
all the rams players wanted was open space.
i love the  enthusiasm of the players, the fans, kevin harlan.
charles was  just 47 years old.
for 40 minutes in an insanely large dome in houston, the vcu players  wanted nothing more than to run.
i can’t quite put it into words what success means, and other things like “happiness,” or “class,” or “integrity,” but i don’t need the words, right?
(ap) lawrence, kan. — nobody seemed willing to admit that this was the  last game.
these are things that come from wordless places deep inside, things that cannot be defined, things that we believe transcend definition.
he didn’t see north carolina’s famous four corners offense as  an innovation as much as a cowardly manipulation of the rules.
i met him only once.
read more… walker's huskies finished ninth in the big east -- now they're the favorite to win the ncaa championship.
there are fewer angles, fewer moves, fewer countermoves.
my great good friend michael rosenberg has a wonderful knack of writing things that strike powerful disagreement inside me.
one great basketball player can make a larger impact, i suspect,  than one great player in any other team sport.
he thought that smith’s remarkable coaching record was the result of exceptional recruiting and his willingness to choke the life out of games.
these are the feelings coursing through me.
butler did not allow a single fast-break point saturday night.
read more… published on mar 20, 2011 read 6 comments the agony of defeat auto racing, baseball, basketball, cleveland, college basketball, college football, featured, general, golf, international,  nba, nfl, nhl, olympics, other sports, playoffs, soccer, tennis |  comments the worst ending in the history of sports happened on jan. 4, 1981, on a  frigid day in cleveland.
he didn’t see north carolina’s famous four corners offense as an innovation as much as a cowardly manipulation of the rules.
bit of an  oversight there.
he liked to make the point that both of north carolina’s national championships under dean smith were haunted by spectacular last-second gaffes by an opponent.
this was the end, the last time kansas  and missouri will play each other in the rivalry game that has fueled winters  in the midwest for more than 100 years.
it is one of his many  gifts.
and that’s what i think about now.
except for one thing … i am so sick of the studio hosts talking again and again and again about the officiating.
state an improbable win over houston for the 1983 national title.
read more… published on may 27, 2010 add a comment search for: follow blog via email enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of  new posts by email.
don’t tell me that the “13 is bad luck” concept is  just a myth.
like a simple fact printed at the bottom of the score sheet: vcu scored zero fast break points saturday night.
then he played in basketball leagues all around the world, and he coached for a while before settling back in raleigh and driving busses.
and that led to the words that form the heart of this piece, words that, i have to say, surprised me: “college athletics are not about the players.”
well, it only makes sense.
and my friend went to cheer for georgia tech and against carolina.
the court is smaller.
he also made a famous shot.
(heinz kluetmeier/si)
read more… i love just about everything about the first week of march madness.
cleveland had the ball at the oakland 13.
i know it when i feel it.
and the browns  had the ball on the oakland 13.
most of us can live comfortably in  that hazy world.
i think michael’s one of the best sportswriters in the  country and we see things the same way the vast majority of the time.
it is one of his many gifts.
you’re really going to count on that  mathematical improbability?
while kansas celebrated a huge win, dixon and the tigers were down and out.
this was the end, the last time kansas and missouri will play each other in the rivalry game that has fueled winters in the midwest for more than 100 years.
you are more than welcome to stop reading now.
this is an indisputable fact.
well, that’s not exactly right —  he had nothing against the man.
charles  had lived a basketball life — he was an excellent college basketball  player, of course.
(us presswire) houston — basketball is probably the most predictable of all our team  sports.
well, one of the extra points was blocked and the other was botched on the snap, but the point was that this was no day for kicking a football through uprights.
success is like that, right?
he honestly believed that smith wasn’t really a great coach.
there  are fewer players on each roster.
well, one of the extra points was blocked and the other was  botched on the snap, but the point was that this was no day for kicking a  football through uprights.
right now, the estimate and charge is that about $1 million  was siphoned away from the school and into the pockets of those employees.
except for one thing … i am so sick of the studio hosts talking  again and again and again about the officiating.
this was a contributing reason why browns coach sam  rutigliano decided on a pass play called “red right 88.”
all night long, vcu could not beat them down the court.
the wind-chill that day was minus-36, and cleveland’s kicker, don  cockroft — who only that year had become the 10th player in nfl history  to score 1,000 points in the nfl — had already missed two field goals and  two extra points.
there is something i have wanted to say for a while about big-time college  athletics, but it is one of those weird thoughts that is both blindingly  obvious and strangely difficult to put into words.
north carolina was playing at georgia tech that day — this was  another one of coach bobby cremins’ preposterously talented georgia tech  teams.
the big 12 tournament?
for instance: what is success?
well,  um, you know, um, there’s that old line about art: i know it when i see  it.
and the browns had the ball on the oakland 13.
i love the close final minutes.
read more… the worst ending in the history of sports happened on jan. 4, 1981, on a frigid day in cleveland.
read more… how much would parents pay to send their son to play four years of basketball for krzyzewski?
hey,  they said, kansas and missouri could meet in the ncaa tournament.
he was driving a bus for elite tours and the crash  happened on interstate 40, near raleigh, n.c., where he was beloved.
bit of an oversight there.
read more… published on jul 20, 2010 add a comment wooden and love college basketball |  comments most people can live with the vague.
some years ago, i went to a north carolina basketball game with  a buddy who despised dean smith.
the regular college basketball season doesn’t do much for me, but march makes it all worthwhile.
when  i was in high school in north carolina, they used to call these sorts of fans  abc fans — anyone but carolina.
and nobody seemed willing to admit — or accept — that this was it.
one great basketball player can make a larger impact, i suspect, than one great player in any other team sport.
this is not to say that i always, or even often, disagree with michael.
you’re really going to count on that mathematical improbability?
si.com home about joe archives books contact glossary halls of fame joe's  words subscribe to rss
that’s why i had never written it before.
even if that should happen —  and kansas coach bill self is forcefully against it — a non-conference  annual game between these teams would be a gimmick with nothing at stake.
the last missouri-kansas game college basketball |  comments while kansas celebrated a huge win, dixon and the tigers were down and out.
all night long, vcu could  not beat them down the court.
it has been a long time since i  read a sentence i more strongly disagreed with.
for 40 minutes, the bulldogs players got back on defense … and  got back on defense … and got back on defense.
but i thought about him often.
north carolina was playing at georgia tech that day — this was another one of coach bobby cremins’ preposterously talented georgia tech teams.
read more… most people can live with the vague.
and that led to the words that form the heart of this piece, words that, i  have to say, surprised me: “college athletics are not about the  players.”
people care about that for roughly 20 minutes, right until the instant that the ncaa tournament seedings are announced.
everything is on a smaller scale in basketball.
in case you haven’t heard, well, it seems  like the last few years there was this itsy-bitsy little mixup there where at  least 17,609 premium basketball tickets and 2,181 premium football tickets were  stolen from big time kansas buyers and then sold or used by kansas ticket  office employees.
for 40 minutes, the bulldogs players got back on defense … and got back on defense … and got back on defense.
there are fewer angles, fewer moves, fewer  countermoves.
what i'm  saying is i haven't seen my wife for three days.8 hours ago and @goldbergkc confirms.
no, people kept saying, missouri and kansas will probably play each  other in the big 12 tournament, and that’s in just a couple weeks.
this was a contributing reason why browns coach sam rutigliano decided on a pass play called “red right 88.”
read more… published on jul 28, 2011 read 11 comments lorenzo charles and the shot college basketball |  comments charles' last-second dunk gave n.c. state
right now, the estimate and charge is that about $1 million was siphoned away from the school and into the pockets of those employees.
a good chance next week even.
even if that should happen — and kansas coach bill self is forcefully against it — a non-conference annual game between these teams would be a gimmick with nothing at stake.
everything is on a smaller scale in  basketball.
and butler is going back to the national championship game.
people care about that for roughly 20  minutes, right until the instant that the ncaa tournament seedings are  announced.
the wind-chill that day was minus-36, and cleveland’s kicker, don cockroft — who only that year had become the 10th player in nfl history to score 1,000 points in the nfl — had already missed two field goals and two extra points.
well, that’s not exactly right — he had nothing against the man.
when i was in high school in north carolina, they used to call these sorts of fans abc fans — anyone but carolina.
there are fewer players on each team.
we know what success means, even  if we can’t really say what it means.
there are fewer players on each roster.
read more… published on jun 28, 2011 read 14 comments the madness of march college basketball |  comments walker's huskies finished ninth in the big east -- now they're the favorite  to win the ncaa championship.
i love the great individual performances.
rt @ gustavanderson any chance we get a poscast with @kentremendous?
no, it can’t ever be the same.
it was reading michael’s piece, and this sentence in particular — “if we wanted to be completelyfair, then football and basketball players would not be forced to subsidize non-revenue athletes” — that opened the door.
most of us can live comfortably in that hazy world.
first an apology: this will be more about me than it will be about lorenzo  charles.
read more… charles' last-second dunk gave n.c.
an improbable win over houston  for the 1983 national title.
read more… published on dec 23, 2010 read 22 comments dean college basketball |  comments dean smith was a genius on the bench, managing every game with the same  attention to detail.
it was reading michael’s piece, and this sentence in  particular — “if we wanted to be completelyfair, then  football and basketball players would not be forced to subsidize non-revenue  athletes” — that opened the door.
the regular college  basketball season doesn’t do much for me, but march makes it all  worthwhile.
but i don’t need the words, right?
every time they got the ball, they pushed it up court — faster, always faster — this is how vcu plays, this is how their dynamic coach shaka smart coaches, this is how vcu won five games and made one of the more unlikely final four runs ever.
that’s why i had never  written it before.
maybe that’s why when i do disagree with him — likei did with a tiger woods column he wrote last year or the let’s pay the stars of college sports piece he wrote this week — it’s a pretty strong emotion, the sort of emotion that pushes me to mumble to myself and to start a new file on my computer.
well, um, you know, um, there’s that old line about art: i know it when i see it.
17 hours ago ohhhhhh, i thought espn was doing an actual twitter mock draft.
charles had lived a basketball life — he was an excellent college basketball player, of course.
don’t  worry, they said, in the years ahead missouri and kansas will probably renew  the rivalry in some sort of annual game played in kansas city.
he despised the idea of dean smith.
ralph branca wore 13.
and nobody seemed willing to admit — or accept — that this was  it.
then he played in basketball leagues all around the world,  and he coached for a while before settling back in raleigh and driving busses.
for 40 minutes in an insanely large dome in houston, the vcu players wanted nothing more than to run.
it had something to do  with growing up.
maybe  that’s why when i do disagree with him — likei did with a tiger  woods column he wrote last year or the let’s pay the stars of college  sports piece he wrote this week — it’s a pretty strong emotion, the  sort of emotion that pushes me to mumble to myself and to start a new file on  my computer.
i think michael’s one of the best sportswriters in the country and we see things the same way the vast majority of the time.
i was  going to take @kentremendous with my first pick.
my great good friend michael rosenberg has a wonderful knack of writing  things that strike powerful disagreement inside me.
(ap) lawrence, kan. — nobody seemed willing to admit that this was the last game.
he honestly  believed that smith wasn’t really a great coach.
you are viewing all posts in the college basketball category
but jack focht, who led the internal investigation, concedes that he would not be surprised if the real amount was closer to $3 million.
no, people kept saying, missouri and kansas will probably play each other in the big 12 tournament, and that’s in just a couple weeks.
but  jack focht, who led the internal investigation, concedes that he would not be  surprised if the real amount was closer to $3 million.
the browns trailed the  oakland raiders 14-12 with less than a minute remaining in their afc divisional  playoff game.
i love the wall-to-wall games.
he thought that  smith’s remarkable coaching record was the result of exceptional  recruiting and his willingness to choke the life out of games.
don’t tell me that the “13 is bad luck” concept is just a myth.
the wildest story in the history of college basketball  might just come down to something simple.
i love the enthusiasm of the players, the fans, kevin harlan.
@jposnanski’s twitter wife started reading "night circus" three days ago.
read more… published on feb 25, 2012 add a comment the college connection college basketball, college football |   comments how much would parents pay to send their son to play four years of  basketball for krzyzewski?
and butler won the game 70-62.
every time they got the ball, they pushed it up court — faster, always  faster — this is how vcu plays, this is how their dynamic coach shaka  smart coaches, this is how vcu won five games and made one of the more unlikely  final four runs ever.
don’t worry, they said, in the years ahead missouri and kansas will probably renew the rivalry in some sort of annual game played in kansas city.