- home - about us - ordering info - contact us - view cart home > how to coach football > special teams > shield punting: better protection, better coverage, better results shield punting: better protection, better coverage, better results item #: fd-03466 reg price: $39.99 quantity: description with paul lounsberry, southern university assistant coach; 35 years as a football coach, including university of south carolina, university of central florida, temple university and simpson college (ia)
lounsberry needed a way to neutralize those returners' ability to break open a game with a great return.
return to football instruction video home.
learn how to achieve better protection, better coverage and better results with the shield punt!
in this dvd, lounsberry discusses the formations, assignments and  variations of the shield punt.
lounsberry includes fakes and an innovative quick kick rugby style punt gives your punter a run/punt option.
your athletes have limited assignments which translates into quick learning and fewer reps in practice.
the basic shield punt formation allows for much better coverage by spreading outseven gunners on the line of scrimmage with three defenders protecting the punter.
everyone else is  tasked with protecting the punter until the kick is off, which means they lose  time they could be using to go after the returner.
the basic shield punt  formation allows for much better coverage by spreading outseven gunners on the line of scrimmage with three defenders protecting the punter.
- online voice lessons web site by solid cactus - home - about us - ordering info - shipping policy - contact us - site map - view cart copyright 2008 sports nation, inc.
the shield punt system is a simple and effective way to minimize your opponents' net punt return yards.
35 years as a football coach, including university of south carolina,  university of central florida, temple university and simpson college (ia) the shield punt system is a simple and effective way to minimize your  opponents' net punt return yards.
as an assistant coach under lou holtz at south carolina, paul lounsberry's punt coverage teams faced fearsome punt returners every week in the sec.
items related to special teams - maximizing protection & coverage with the shield punt - kohl's kicking and punting 2-pack - shield punting: better protection, better coverage, better results - kicking technique and drills - becoming a champion kicker - becoming a champion punter - it's a snap: training your long snappers - punting technique and drills - kicking coverage and return - view more ... - baseball instruction dvds - basketball instruction dvds - cheerleading instruction dvds - field hockey instruction dvd's - football instruction dvd's - ice hockey instruction dvds - golf instruction dvd's - lacrosse instruction dvd's - soccer instruction dvds - softball instruction dvds - swimming instruction dvds - tennis instruction dvds - track and field instruction dvd's - volleyball instruction dvd's - wrestling instruction dvd's - training videos - training equipment - new releases - just in!
learn how to achieve better protection, better coverage and better results  with the shield punt!
the shield punt is a simple formation that results in your opponents giving  you fewer looks and allows you tominimize practice time spent on punt  coverage.
items related to special teams maximizing protection & coverage with the shield punt kohl's kicking and punting 2-pack shield punting: better protection, better coverage, better results kicking technique and drills
detailed diagrams show you exactly how to set up the coverage, and game footage shows you how to execute it.
lounsberry needed a way to neutralize those returners' ability to break open a  game with a great return.
the shield punt provided exactly what he needed.
the traditional punt formation has only two gunners.
the shield punt is a simple formation that results in your opponents giving you fewer looks and allows you tominimize practice time spent on punt coverage.
as an assistant coach under lou holtz at south carolina, paul lounsberry's  punt coverage teams faced fearsome punt returners every week in the sec.
your athletes have limited assignments which translates into  quick learning and fewer reps in practice.
in this dvd, lounsberry discusses the formations, assignments and variations of the shield punt.
everyone else is tasked with protecting the punter until the kick is off, which means they lose time they could be using to go after the returner.
detailed diagrams show you exactly how to set up  the coverage, and game footage shows you how to execute it.