nevala was willing to help provide insight into how notre dame’s large recruiting budget is spent.
posted in big east, finance leave a comment nov 1 posted by alicia jessop
the $250,000.00 million dollar state-of-the-art facility is also home to memphis’ nba team, the grizzlies.
it is a play intended to get the football into the hands of the wide receiver.
add that $2.4 million to the incremental $3.35 million from the media rights deal, and now san diego state is $5.75 million ahead on revenue by switching conferences.
memphis also has a decent football facility in the liberty bowl memorial  stadium.
however, in 2004, the face of the mines football program began to change.
according to stitt, leach was impressed with what he saw.
although this data is not perfect, it is the only data available for both public and private institutions.
according to data obtained from the department of education, in both 2009-10 and 2010-11, neither the memphis football nor men’s basketball teams turned a profit.
with respect to the performance data the bcs will rely upon to select 2014-2017′s aq conferences, only 2010′s data is currently available.
however, with his kind disposition and impressive academic record, there was no question that hahn would become a successful professional, whether it was in the nfl or elsewhere.
while ranking 40th in all of the ncaa is arguably an impressive feat, memphis will likely have to increase its recruiting budget to keep up with those of its new big east peers.
by securing schools which will participate in football who have proven records of recent success on the football field as new members, the big east will chip away at wvu’s claims and likely secure its participation in the conference for the next 27-months.
posted in bcs, big east 7 comments oct 19 posted by alicia jessop
memphis also has a decent football facility in the liberty bowl memorial stadium.
theme: mystique by digitalnature.
last week, the big 12′s members voted to distribute revenue earned from its television contracts equally amongst its members.
the destination conference is the big west, which is generally a weaker conference in terms of revenue and level of play.
the tigers will likely make  another run this march.
in 2010-11, the following big east schools ranked and spent as follows in  terms of recruiting: notre dame:  3rd, $2,070,316.00 marquette:  11th, $1,461,373.00 louisville:  25th, $1,128,645.00 thus, memphis will now be recruiting against schools with much larger  recruiting budgets.
connecticut also has the highest average women’s sports assistant coaching salary.
many basketball fans argue that the big east tournament is one of the best each season, if only for the fact that it is played in madison square garden.
this number surpassed that earned by other schools in its current conference, including uab, east carolina and memphis, by up to $2 million.
please read below before viewing the financials.
these numbers are lower than the disparity in the sec.
b. costs as noted above, tcu was set to join the big east.
in terms of recruiting expenses, the fighting irish of notre dame put up a good fight when stacked against other programs’ spending.
while the premature death of hahn arguably fueled the colorado school of mines orediggers to win on the football field in 2004, the coaching of the team by stitt during that season and in subsequent years provided the team with the skills necessary to be competitive.
several schools have been touted as being sought after by the big east for this purpose, including the university of central florida.
it took stitt three minutes to instruct the quarterback how to run the play.
on a morning in early august 2004, when in previous years, his teammates would have been busy on the gridiron during two-a-days, hahn’s teammates were dressed in freshly pressed black suits and sitting in the front pews of a catholic church in hahn’s hometown of aurora, colorado.
why don’t we put it up in the air?
scott hahn was looking forward to starting his senior year and returning to golden for football camp.
tcu’s move to the big 12 presents several incentives which will be enjoyed by the university and conference.
the big east has steadfastly maintained that it will hold syracuse and pittsburgh to its bylaws, which require that teams give 27-months’ notice of their intent to leave and pay a $5 million exit fee.
it’s been a rocky few days for the relationship between west virginia university and the big east.
just a simple little change like that made it so effective,” stitt explained.
this ranking makes dallas the highest-rated tv market for all of texas.
we just want to make you aware of the possible variances and will let you draw your own conclusions.
recruiting it is no secret that texas is a hotbed for high school football talent.
in that context, it is reasonable to ask how in the world some of the latest changes make any sense at all–does san diego state really fit in the big east?
all in all, numerous factors make ucf a very favorable candidate for big east expansion.
in 2010-11, notre dame’s $2,070,316.00 recruiting budget was spent as follows:team recruiting expenses percentage of total recruiting expenses the link below is a pie chart depicting just how much of notre dame’s recruiting budget is spent by particular teams: notre dame recruiting expenses
more difficult to quantify are issues like the impact on football student-athletes from a more demanding travel schedule, the effect that playing lower ranked teams has on recruiting and quality of experience for every other team in the department, and the overall message that accompanies the move.
with the move of the football team to the big east, sdsu had to find a new home for all of the other sports since the mountain west was no longer interested in having the school without football.
the third consideration is the impact on the cost side of the athletics equation.
the most common split is 65/35.
hahn could not give a serious reason for why he wanted to change his number, but he knew he wanted to.
in all, memphis appears to be a worthy candidate for big east membership.
yes, coach stitt, a simple little change.
the data reported is from the reporting year of july 1, 2010 through june 30, 2011.school head coach average annual institutional salary asst.
additionally, in terms of licensing opportunities and merchandise sales, ucf is a great target.
however, notre dame did not have the highest average spent per men’s team in terms of recruiting expenses in 2010-11.
the acc currently operates under a deal for $155 million a year, and the big 12 reached a deal with fox that made its total annual package worth about $130 million.
posted in big east, conference usa 3 comments feb 1 posted by alicia jessop
posted in big east, conference finance series 10 comments tags: georgetown, notre dame; marquette; uconn; depaul; st. john's; rutgers; pittsburgh; providence; west virginia; villanova; cincinnati; south florida; louisville; syracuse, seton hall dec 15 posted by bcsguestwriter guest author: dr. michael lorenzen dr. michael lorenzen is the principal owner of collegiate athletics strategy advising, a firm that provides advisement services to collegiate athletics administrators one of the most significant trends to impact intercollegiate athletics in the last several years has been conference realignment.
reports indicate that tcu will have to pay the big east a $5 million exit fee.
automatic qualifier arguably one of the biggest factors the big east is concerned with when extending invitations to universities to join the conference, is that it maintains its bcs automatic qualifier status.
what stitt was able to do with a group of engineers that season was not lost on other coaches.
“we played it in the morning.
thus, while for some it may seem preposterous that tcu was willing to fork out $5 million to exit a conference it never played a game in, its board of trustees arguably realized the television revenue earning potential the school could reap through big 12 membership.
the team went 12-1, losing a bitter playoff game in pittsburg, kansas at a place called “the jungle.”
according to nevala, notre dame tries “to capture everything recruiting related” when reporting its figures to the department of education.
posted in big east, conference usa 8 comments oct 12 posted by alicia jessop mere weeks ago, many were drafting eulogies for the big 12, as texas a&m announced its departure from the conference to join the sec.
the fact that ucf turns a profit in men’s basketball is arguably attractive to the big east, as it was the only conference tomake more money from march madness than the bcs during the 2008-09 and 2009-10 fiscal years.
when asked how the athletic department’s budget is structured in a given year, nevala provided the following insight: “there are two components to what a team believes their budget should be: what it has been and what is newly required going forward.
we have to seek approval for our budget.
to put into perspective the rigor of mines’ academic curriculum, in 2006 and 2007, mines played in a post-season bowl game, the dixie rotary bowl in st. george, utah.
memphis will arguably be set to compete with the big east in terms of  basketball.
wvu wide receiver tavon austin, who runs the 40-yard-dash in 4.3 seconds, scored four touchdowns using a play that stumped clemson’s defense.
the long-legged hahn was a talented kicker who also showed skill in punting.
the big east tournament hosted at madison square garden has always drawn a loyal basketball-loving crowd.
under holgorsen and today, houston uses stitt’s fly sweep play.
four players who have made it to the nfl.
given this, after 2007, stitt told the rmac commissioner that mines would never go back to play int eh game.
by moving to the big 12, tcu has arguably set itself on good footing to earn even larger amounts of money from one of the biggest revenue streams in college sports.
mines has greatly increased its student population.
wvu’s concerns set out in its lawsuit are realistic.
while likely a small factor when considered in the grand scheme of things, the university’s athletic department will incur much lower travel expenses by moving to the big 12.
memphis to the big east: a good fit? feb 8 posted by alicia jessop today, the university of memphis is expected to announce that it is leaving  conference usa for the big east beginning in 2013.
examples he used included coach’s cellular telephone bills, subscriptions to recruiting newsletters, meals, and recruiting brochures.
a gain of $1.8 million per year could be a powerful incentive.
the next conference we’re looking at is the big east.
this gives sdsu a fairly dominant position in the mountain west.
ucf is poised to assist the big east in accomplishing this.
those are likely the most significant considerations for a university in sdsu’s position and the ones that would be expected to drive the final decision.
in 2008, the school was runner-up in the ncaa division i  basketball national championship game.
and its safe to say, we’ll be seeing his fly sweep play when the orediggers take brooks field this fall.
paper reminders were posted in the locker room of what the team was striving to do for scott: win every game.
in 2010, dixon signed a contract extension with pitt through the 2017-18 season.
facilities while the big east is known for its basketball talent, it is also known for the spectacular facilities its teams get to play their basketball games in.
we just had to recruit in the denver area and foot the bill ourselves,” noted stitt.
he said he had forgotten that part of the play,” said stitt.
a 51-17 conference record.
however, team’s performances between 2010 through 2013 will be used.
if the tigers can turn a profit and increase their recruiting  expenses, memphis should be largely competitive in the conference.
telling by its name, it is also home to the liberty bowl game.
although this season the knights only have a 3-3 record, their success last season arguably depicts that they are a football team to contend with and someone who will help the big east maintain its bcs aq status.
nonetheless, the merits of the lawsuit will be hashed out between lawyers and ultimately a judge in a courtroom.
the following are rankings from the final 2010 bcs poll.
last season, the ucf knights finished ranked 25th in the bcs standings.
we participate in the university’s budget process.
adding houston, boise state, and two other schools for football gets the big east to 12 football members, which would yield a max of $2.4 million per institution from bcs participation if two schools were chosen to participate in bcs games.
under the current bcs arrangement, each conference whose team qualifies automatically for the bcs receives approximately $22.3 million in net revenue.
reportedly, the big east is set to invite six schools to join the conference at a meeting which will be held today.
in recent months, the big east has seen two of its member schools, syracuse and pittsburgh, defect for the acc.
stitt granted his request and during his junior season, hahn played as number 12.
built seven years ago, the fedexforum also has a  22×38 square foot scoreboard, which according to the fedexforum, is one  of the largest in the nation.
prior to the contract extension, he was earning around $1.6 million annually from his pitt salary.
there is a fairly straightforward analytical approach to evaluating that sort of move and in the case of san diego state, the financial bottom line would suggest that the move makes both dollars and sense.
for example, florida state’s football program showed a gain of approximately $14 million from ’09-’10 to ’10-’11.
the acc andbig xii were posted earlier today.
according to nevala, the notre dame athletics department is committed to providing $20 million worth of revenue to the university.
coach average annual institutional salary
the knights’ football team competes in the bright house networks stadium, which is the nation’s newest college football stadium.
while we’re a big east conference member, across the board, all of our sports are competing nationally.
after the game, a reporter commented to wvu head coach dana halgorsen, “the guys are still trying to figure out that one play that was successful for multiple touchdowns.
things only got more difficult for the big east on october 31, 2011, when wvu filed a lawsuit against the conference in an attempt to free itself from the 27-month notice provision and join the big 12 next season.
the big east’s first-tier television rights contract with espn expires in 2012 and is worth $200 million.
after that, aq status for all conferences will be redetermined for 2014-2017 and it is unclear the precise criteria that will be used.
tcu is located in fort worth, texas, which is less than forty miles away from dallas.
additionally, schools like oklahoma are a short drive away from tcu.
in 2009-10, memphis men’s  basketball had expenses and revenues of $6,113,027, for a profit of  $0.00.
after speaking with dozens of schools the most common practice appears to be attributing the majority of television revenue to football and a portion to basketball.
then the head coach at texas tech, mike leach contacted stitt about trading film, because he wanted to see how the orediggers were running the ball so well in a passing offense.
as for where the athletics department obtains the revenue from, nevala explained that, “the revenue mainly comes from football ticket sales.
in 2010, pitt men’s basketball head coach jamie dixon signed a new contract which made him the highest paid coach in pennsylvania–yes, he was given a contract that paid him more than joe paterno.
in 2009-10, memphis men’s basketball had expenses and revenues of $6,113,027, for a profit of $0.00.
recently, the big east announced that it wishes to add six football teams to its conference, bringing the conference up to twelve participating football teams.
the fighting irish spent $457,708.00 to recruit female student-athletes in 2010-11.
, the fact that the conference is specifically seeking out institutions to create a 12-team football conference depicts a shift in its sport of choice.
therefore, long story short, the big east needs schools with successful football teams to join its conference and it needs them to join fast.
and the football team has seen winning seasons since 2004.
in 2010-11, memphis football had lower expenses and revenues than those of 2009-10, at $8,609,503.00, for a profit of $0.00.
the knights made the ncaa tournament in 2005.
much has changed in golden, colorado since stitt began his tenure as the orediggers’ head football coach.
thus, there clearly is  a large range between the profits and losses incurred by big east teams in a  given year.
last year sdsu earned more than $1 million profit from basketball operations on revenues of $4.7 million.
if sdsu approximated the rest of the big west as a result of lower level of competition, smaller venues, lower attendance, lower level recruits, etc., it would be reasonable to assume that sdsu basketball would become a break-even enterprise.
today, stitt’s recruiting budget is much larger than the $5,500.00 he was met with in 2000.
according to the us department of education, sdsu is currently spending $12.1 million on 121 football players, or $100.2k per player.
the mountain west median basketball profit was $300k on median revenues of $2.9 million, so sdsu has a very strong and successful position compared to their current peers.
in 2004, the orediggers scored an impressive 515 points.
posted in big east, finance, independents, recruiting 2 comments jan 19 posted by alicia jessop next up in businessofcollegesports.com’s conference recruitment expense series is the big east.
in 2008, the big east’s bylaws were amended.
on thursday, businessofcollegesports.com will delve into data for the acc.
last year’s ncaa division i basketball national champion–uconn–hails from the big east and the big east tournament held every year at madison square garden is a favorite amongst basketball fans.
if we did that, the kid doesn’t have to slow down and if he drops it, it’s an incomplete pass, because it is a forward pass.
a simple little change, that apparently stitt was the only coach in the country to grasp onto and teach his team.
big 12 college coaches can lure texas recruits to play for them by promising them the ability to play before their family and friends in their hometown.
later, holgorsen would become the offensive coordinator at the university of houston, a program long recognized for scoring many points.
additionally, during the 2009-10 fiscal year, ucf’s men’s basketball team actually turned a profit.
in terms of recruiting expenses, in 2010-11, memphis ranked 40th in the ncaa, spending a total of $961,150.00 on recruiting for all of its teams and $759,844.00 for its men’s teams.
perhaps what has made stitt the most successful football coach in mines history, is his ability to be an innovative play maker.
the best thing the big east can do, is to secure as new members football-participating members with proven records on the gridiron and located in strong media markets.
posted in big east, football, mountain west 2 comments nov 29 posted by alicia jessop one conference that has been caught in the crossfire of conference realignment is the big east.
media one factor about memphis which is likely attractive to the big east is its media presence.
two factual scenarios make up the factual bulk of wvu’s claims against the big east: 1.
relative to their peers in the mountain west, sdsu would require an additional 9 ftes.
arguably, as long as memphis stays out of the red, it should be able to compete financially with other big east members.
the tigers boast a 1,406-820-1 all-time win/loss  record.
posted in big 12, big east, football, recruiting, television 12 comments enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
while some of the most landscape-altering changes have probably already been completed, there is almost certainly going to continue to be movement as universities make decisions that may seem to contradict completely the traditional understanding of conference membership.
according to data obtained from the department of education, in both  2009-10 and 2010-11, neither the memphis football nor men’s basketball  teams turned a profit.
tom nevala is notre dame’s senior associate athletics director for business operations and youth programming.
by comparison, the big east media deal was projected to pay $3.7 million per year to football schools.
furthermore, although notre dame competes in football, notre dame is an independent member in football.
for example, each school can decide for itself whether to break out television revenue by sport or leave it in a generic revenue category, which causes variances.
while ucf isn’t on the same level in terms of basketball talent as these schools, it will likely be able to compete.
the impact on the department as a whole would be a reduction in departmental revenues by several million dollars and departmental income available for supporting other sports/programs by $1 million.
if a football recruit is visiting for a game, this factor increases the cost of recruiting him.
using the modified fly sweep play in 2004, mines was able to break the school’s season passing record with 4,766 yards.
if the tigers can turn a profit and increase their recruiting expenses, memphis should be largely competitive in the conference.
about the data: all of the data is from reports each school files with the us department of education.
since sdsu is only participating in football in the big east, let’s assume that only 15% of staffing is attributed to football, or 2 ftes.
teams put forth their budget requests, and if we can meet those two things, we grant their budget accordingly,” explained nevala.
the data was obtained from the department of education.
it was kind of like a reverse, and a lot of the time, you just put the reverse in the air.
men’s sports assistant coaches earn 2.2 times as much as their women’s sports counterparts.
the tigers boast a 1,406-820-1 all-time win/loss record.
blog at wordpress.com.
the fighting irish spent $1,612,608.00 on recruiting student-athletes for its men’s teams in 2010-11.
facilities while the big east is known for its basketball talent, it is also known for  the spectacular facilities its teams get to play their basketball games  in.
while the fact that 48.7 percent of notre dame’s entire recruiting budget was spent by the football team may seem outrageous to some, several factors must be taken into consideration.
after taking out georgetown (who does not play football at the bcs level), the median spending in the big east on football is $12.6 million on 111 players, or $112.1k per player.
i basketball national  champion–uconn–hails from the big east and the big east tournament  held every year at madison square garden is a favorite amongst basketball fans.
for the period between july 2009 to june 2010, tcu’s football revenue was $20,609,361.00.
arguably, in finding a new member, the big east would want to find  candidates on par with those schools leaving, so as to fill their  “shoes” upon their departure.
perhaps it was premonition, or maybe it was just a 20 year-old who on a whim, felt like wearing the number 12.
additionally, tcu, which was slated to join the conference beginning in 2012, opted out of that opportunity and instead chose to join the big 12 next year.
for the big 12 although some believed the big 12 to be on its deathbed several weeks ago, the conference’s extension of an invitation to tcu was not one made out of pity for the university.
as coaches do, stitt continued to break down the play in his head to determine what he could do to make it successful.
however, one thing that hasn’t changed is the method by which mines recruits–a method unique to the school’s rigorous academic curriculum.
the data used for this analysis was obtained from reports filed by each school with the u.s. department of education, as required by title ix.
and now, more than ever, the big east must do this fast.
in terms of recruiting expenses, in 2010-11, memphis ranked 40th in the  ncaa, spending a total of $961,150.00 on recruiting for all of its teams and  $759,844.00 for its men’s teams.
the $250,000.00 million  dollar state-of-the-art facility is also home to memphis’ nba team, the  grizzlies.
halgorsen, smiling, responded, “well, my good friend bob stitt at the colorado school of mines, gave me that.”
so what might the big east alignment eventually net san diego state?
securing a fourth texas school into its conference gives all big 12 members a significant advantage over other conferences in recruiting this talent.
last season, the horned frogs went undefeated in football and won the rose bowl.
as seenhere, this is not something that every basketball team accomplishes.
as announced last week, the new big east includes 8 full members: houston, smu, ucf, cincinnati, connecticut, louisville, rutgers, and usf.
first, unlike sports like basketball where only a handful of student-athletes are recruited during a given year, a school can be recruiting upwards of fifty or more football players in a given recruiting year.
however, that same year, the uconn basketball team–which won the ncaa division i national championship–suffered losses of $417,181.00.
thus, memphis’ 48th ranking falls nicely in between pittsburgh and syracuse’s rankings, arguably pleasing the big east.
dana was working with the quarterbacks and he kind of noticed me.
football tcu has had well-documented success on the gridiron in recent years.
the knights’ basketball team also is sitting pretty in terms of its facility.
calculating the average salaries of football competing members and non-football competing members (not taking into consideration notre dame in either calculation), head coaches of men’s sports of football competing schools earn 1.4 times as much as their non-football competing school counterparts.
the second consideration is the share of bcs revenue that a school in a conference with an automatic qualifying slot would gain as a result of their membership, assuming the conference has an equal revenue sharing agreement.
arguably, in finding a new member, the big east would want to find candidates on par with those schools leaving, so as to fill their “shoes” upon their departure.
in the bylaws, “football action” is defined as “any matter which relates specifically to any participation in ncaa division i-a football by division i-a schools.”
“we recruit transcripts first.
that being said, its 11th hour switch to the big 12 does not come without financial consequences.
with four big 12 teams being located in texas, a recruit who signs with a big 12 team will play at least four games a season in his home state.
in 2010-11, memphis men’s basketball had expenses and revenues of $6,739,131.00, for a profit of $0.00.
i asked him why they weren’t putting it into the air.
there are also variances from year-to-year, so be careful when comparing this data to last year’s data.
given that memphis has invested in its facilities, it is certain that other big east teams and their fans will enjoy traveling to memphis to watch their teams compete.
prior to arriving at mines, stitt worked as an offensive coordinator at austin college in texas and at the esteemed harvard university.
additionally, another school the big east reportedly has its eyes on–the university of houston–only had football revenue of $7,719,733.00 during the period.
stitt eulogized hahn.
villanova, a private institution, is home to the lowest average women’s sports head coaching salary, as well as the lowest average men’s and women’s sports assistant coaching salaries.
at an average of $60k including benefits that would require an additional $720k per year to match the big east and $540k per year to reach mountain west norms.
with quarterback phenom case keenum, houston has only kept up with its notoriety of scoring many points.
the game fell during finals for mines students.
stitt himself was there when keenum learned how to properly complete the play.
however, the size of the big east’s exit fee and tcu’s willingness to pay it signals just how much the school expects to gain financially by joining the big 12.
posted in big east, conference usa
with memphis set  to announce its departure to the big east today, is the pairing a good fit? basketball one thing is certain:  the big east is known for its basketball  talent.
a profit of $0.00 is not necessarily a negative factor.
ucf boasts football revenue that is on par with other big east schools.
our budget only grows if we get approval to grow and we can meet the revenue target.
the new pac 12 contract, which will begin with the 2012-13 season, will be worth more than $225 million per year — or $2.7 billion over the life of the deal, according to the sports business daily and the associated press.
seeing that notre dame spent $376,114.00 more than the next highest recruiting spender (alabama) in the ncaa, leads one to wonder what exactly the $2,070,316.00 was spent on.
photo credit: colorado school of mines.
that year, it also broke the school’s completions record (401) and yards in a season record (6,894).
however, one thing is certain: the mines football team had found its 12th man.
the chart is sorted by ’10-11 profits for each football and men’s basketball program from greatest profit to least.
add that to the increased spending per player and you get an annual operating expense increase of $1.57 million per year, which still leaves a tidy net gain of $4.18 million per year by switching football to the big east.
marquette averaged $257,912.00 per men’s sports team in recruiting expenses in 2010-11.
holgorsen was an assistant coach under leach, so it is likely then that holgorsen first was introduced to stitt’s fly sweep play, or what holgorsen calls, “quick.”
the big east is also party to a second-tier television rights contract with cbs worth $54 million.
like in the pac-12 and sec, there is a disparity between the amount of compensation coaches of men’s sports receive and the amount of compensation coaches of women’s sports receive.
in 2010-11, the following big east schools ranked and spent as follows in terms of recruiting: notre dame: 3rd, $2,070,316.00 marquette: 11th, $1,461,373.00 louisville: 25th, $1,128,645.00 thus, memphis will now be recruiting against schools with much larger recruiting budgets.
as noted, wvu cites pitt and syracuse’s departures for the acc, as well as tcu’s failure to show up for its first day at the conference, choosing instead to join the big 12.
that season, stitt realized that the play was taking too much time to practice for the amount of benefits mines was receiving from it.
“that wasn’t even going to send anyone anywhere.
thereafter, stitt showed keenum how to run the play.
boise and san diego state have committed to be football only members, and the big east could still land air force and navy as football only members.
an team-average act score of 29.
you have to see what kind of classes they’re taking and how they score in math and science.
the first consideration for most schools is the most obvious one–what sort of media rights contract exists in the target conference and how does that compare to their current situation?
i national  championship–suffered losses of $417,181.00.
the schools are: ucf, smu, houston, air force, boise and navy.
geno auriemma, the head coach of the successful connecticut women’s basketball team, reportedly earned $1.6 million in salary last year.
additionally, wvu was in a position to make these claims in an attempt to free itself of the 27-month notice provision because of the fact that the departure of pitt, syracuse and tcu arguably adversely impacted the state of the conference.
tcu is presently a member of the mountain west conference and was set to join the big east next summer.
given that memphis has invested in its facilities, it is certain that other  big east teams and their fans will enjoy traveling to memphis to watch their  teams compete.
otherwise, wvu may be packing its bags as soon as next season.
the athletics department’s ability to turn over $20 million worth of revenue to the university as a result of its football team’s success is arguably a reason why nearly one-half of notre dame’s entire recruiting budget is spent by the football team.
however, there can be variances in how each school chooses to report data.
it is the only available data for both public and private universities.
in all, memphis appears to be a worthy candidate for big east  membership.
to rise to the median level of football spending in the big east that would require an incremental $12k per player, or $1.45 million per year.
get every new post delivered to your inbox.
we got done and it was early afternoon, so i went over to the university of houston to see if they were practicing.
at one point late in the season this year both houston and boise state were ranked in the top 10 in the bcs, which would mean $28.9 million for the big east if both had been members and chosen for bcs games.
after all, the historic significance of collegiate athletic conferences has been to organize a group of universities around a common sense of mission, history, size, and geographic location in order to create affiliations and rivalries that benefit all involved.
all in all, it appears that tcu’s move to the big 12 is a win-win situation for the university and the conference.
the 61,000 seat stadium underwent $19.5 million in renovations  in 1987.
likely, the bcs’s television contracts and the bowls themselves will drive the exact criteria used in selecting aq conferences.
the highest average men’s sports head coaching salary is paid by pittsburgh, while the highest average women’s sports head coaching salary is paid by connecticut.
the current big east practice is to split the total package with 70% going to football and 30% to basketball.
that puts a different approach into recruiting nationally.
in the case of sdsu, the biggest factor is the effect on what is currently a very successful basketball program.
that being said, when recruiting, the first thing stitt looks at is not how fast a kid can run the 40-yard-dash or how much he can bench press.
under the best case scenario, where the big east lands a media rights deal worth $90 million a year and has two teams in bcs games, sdsu stands to gain $4.18 million per year after deducting incremental spending on football.
posted in big east, finance, recruiting 1 comment jan 6 posted by alicia jessop
memphis ranks as the48th largest television market.
schools men’s sports recruiting expenses average per team average per athlete schools women’s sports recruiting expenses average per team average per athleteschools women’s sports recruiting expenses average per team average per athlete
his car ultimately rolled several times.
we also fund all of our sports’ scholarships, so that tends to lead to a little bit more national recruiting,” noted nevala.
“we’re in a pretty unique situation here.
that season, the mines football team recorded its best record in school history.
furthermore, the data provided is for the 2010-11 school year.
on average, men’s sports head coaches earn 3.2 times as much as their women’s sports counterparts.
geography along with providing the big 12 with a connection to the fifth-largest media market, geography likely factored heavily into both tcu and the big 12′s decision to join forces.
most would balk at the thought of a school shelling out $5 million to swap out its conference affiliation.
that would still require an incremental investment of $120k per year.
many basketball fans argue that the big east tournament is one of the  best each season, if only for the fact that it is played in madison square  garden.
this $20 million is additional to the amount of money the athletics department spends to fund all of the department’s scholarships.
thus, ucf’s football revenue puts it on par with other schools presently in the big east and those set to join the conference.
its quarterback, chad friehauf, won the harlen hill award, which is division ii’s equivalent of the heisman trophy.
football revenue while the big east has formerly been known as a basketball powerhouse conference
# 12 patches were sown onto the chests of player’s jerseys.
given the projected membership above, that leaves a $5.25 million share for football only schools, a $1.687 million share for basketball only schools, and a $6.937 million share for full members.
like st. john’s, which plays its home games at madison square garden,  memphis also has an impressive basketball facility.
for instance, hotel prices in south bend, indiana, where notre dame is located, skyrocket when the fighting irish are playing a home football game.
under that scenario, san diego state could be increasing their annual take from football media rights from $1.9 million to $5.25 million, for a net gain of $3.35 million.
since 2003, memphis has made the ncaa tournament an impressive seven times.
another interesting feature of the big east, is that it has both football competing members and non-football competing members.
if the receiver doesn’t slow down while making the play, the team runs the risk of fumbling the ball.
for some time, there  has been discussion that the big east should add memphis to the conference,  especially with the upcoming departure of syracuse and pittsburgh to the  acc.
on october 27, 2011, wvu was invited by the big 12 to become a member of the conference.
in 2000, bob stitt received the head coaching position at the colorado school of mines in golden, colorado–a town, which prior to stitt’s arrival prided itself more upon the beer coors brewing company makes than its college football team.
he mentioned that the previous season, hahn came into stitt’s office and asked to change his number to 12.
as noted above, the big east has been known for some time as one of the biggest basketball contenders in the ncaa tournament.
in 2010-11, big east competitor louisville turned a $27,551,289.00 profit with its men’s basketball team.
the big east will be a bcs conference through 2013.
however, on the other end of the spectrum, the worst case scenario could cost sdsu approximately $770,000 per year, which would involve no increased media rights deal and loss of aq status in the big east and decreased basketball revenue consistent with typical big west basketball revenue.
however, that same year, the uconn  basketball team–which won the ncaa division
photo credit: alicia jessop.
we have a net revenue target that we have to meet for the campus.
the “% invested” column shows how much of the specific sport’s revenue goes back into that specific sport.
last year the big west median revenue on basketball was $1.4 million and not a single school reported a profit, with several losing money.
these reports are the only public documentation providing numbers for every school, because private schools are not subject to public records requests, yet have to file their data with the u.s. department of education.
while pittsburgh was ranked the 23rd largest television market,  syracuse was ranked the 81st.
wvu can argue that the loss of the number-three ranked team unduly damaged the big east’s chances of becoming an aq conference in 2014-2017.
the stadium was built as part of a $60 million construction project, which also included building practice fields for the knights’ football, soccer and baseball teams.
after meeting holgorsen two years prior at a one-back clinic, stitt found himself in houston for a mines alumni golf tournament fundraiser.
downtown golden has been completely renovated.
he said, “what are you doing here?” and asked if i saw him running the fly sweep.
when looking at the business aspects of this move, it’s clear why the big east has its eyes on ucf.
that season, the team went 8-0 in its conference, the rocky mountain athletic conference.
the tigers will likely make another run this march.
tomorrow, data for the mac, pac-12, sec, sun belt, mountain west and wac will be posted.
dallas is home to the fifth-highest rated tv market.
as noted above, tcu was set to join the big east next summer.
we’ve been really successful getting engineers who can play football,” said stitt.
the real crux of wvu’s lawsuit is that the exodus of schools from the conference has left the big east unstable.
since tcu never joined the conference as a participating member, it was not held to the notice provision but was only required to pay the $5 million exit fee.
at the same time, that big east deal pales when compared to the other conference negotiations in the last several years.
the $20 million worth of revenue provided by the athletics department to the university is used by the university to fund other students’ financial aid and to cover operating expenses.
based on a $90 million annual package, there would be $63 million for football and $27 million for basketball.
thus, although tcu’s football revenue is less than its new big 12 peers’, it was larger than teams in the big east.
the facility boasts an impressive five levels and over 100 concession stands.
rather, the big 12 clearly realized the money-making potential tcu brings to the conference.
wvu uses the factual scenarios related to the departure of big east member schools to allege that the big east failed to proactively maintain a level of competition, the remaining six football schools and eight non-football schools creates an imbalance and disparity of power and the current state of the big east means that it is expected to lose its bcs aq status.
the school is the second-largest in terms of enrollment, after arizona state university.
in fact, its basketball teams perform so well, that it is one of the only conferences which earned more money from its basketball teams than its football teams.
nevala also noted that travel expenses are higher depending upon when a recruit visits notre dame.
ranking tcu: 3 boise state: 10 west virginia: 22 ucf: 25 thus, in terms of maintaining aq status for 2014-2017, tcu’s decision to join the big 12 over the big east was more detrimental than syracuse and pitt’s departures.
the tigers basketball teams call the 18,119 seat fedexforum home.
when contacted for comment fsu explained that in ’10-’11 they broke out contributions by sport, which they hadn’t done previously.
staying closer to home undoubtedly curbs travel expenses.
in order to match big east average staffing levels sdsu would have to add a total of 12 staff ftes.
memphis nicely fits this  mold.
colorado school of mines head football coach bob stitt.
even legendary louisville basketball coach, rick pitino, called for  the conference to add memphis to its stable of schools.
in 2010-11, notre dame spent a grand total $2,070,316.00 on recruiting.
however, with tcu’s acceptance of an invitation to join the conference on october 10, the big 12 not only gained a tenth member, but arguably reclaimed some stability.
the 61,000 seat stadium underwent $19.5 million in renovations in 1987.
there were rumblings that his abilities could land him in the nfl.
market orlando is a huge market that the big east would be smart to tap into.
the sec gets $205 million per year and the big 10 gets $220 million.
for some time, there has been discussion that the big east should add memphis to the conference, especially with the upcoming departure of syracuse and pittsburgh to the acc.
notre dame also had the highest recruitment expenses for its women’s sports programs in 2010-11.
facilities ucf’s facilities are set for the big stage.
one way to quickly measure and benchmark athletic staffing levels is to evaluate the number of full time equivalent positions in each department as reported on their websites.
though there is clearly some variation in the number of ways each of those pies gets split, a $10 million per year distribution per school is rapidly becoming the norm.
stitt estimates the team spendss $30,000.00 to $40,000.00 in recruiting new players.
i knew that dana had gotten the job there, and i walked right onto the field.
like st. john’s, which plays its home games at madison square garden, memphis also has an impressive basketball facility.
presently, the big 12 is a party to a first-tier television rights contract with espn worth $480 million.
while ranking 40th in all of the  ncaa is arguably an impressive feat, memphis will likely have to increase its  recruiting budget to keep up with those of its new big east peers.
since then, houston has relied heavily on the play to amass points.
however, in announcing that it will join the big 12 in 2012, tcu effectively exited the big east before ever competing within the conference.
arguably, as long as memphis stays out of the red, it should  be able to compete financially with other big east members.
in 2009-10, memphis football had expenses and  revenues of $11,557,329.00, for a profit of $0.00.
the 8 basketball only members would be: depaul, georgetown, marquette, notre dame, providence, seton hall, st. john’s, and villanova.
while nevala confirmed that the vast majority of recruiting expenses incurred by every notre dame team are travel related, he also explained that it’s possible that notre dame’s recruiting expenses appear significantly higher than other those of other schools, because notre dame is comprehensive in how it defines recruiting expenses.
today, at the west end of brooks field, a memorial dedicated to fallen player scott hahn--the 12th man memorial--stands.
it is safe to say, that stitt has brought success to mines football.
the big east has a storied history as a basketball powerhouse.
in 2010-11, notre dame had the greatest recruitment expenses for its men’s sports programs.
while this number in and of itself does not scream huge media ratings for the  big east, it is important to compare how it stacks up to the media ratings of  those schools leaving the big east.
the lawsuit also discusses the fact that uconn has publicly stated that it is pursuing opportunities with other conferences.
by adding tcu to its conference roster, the big 12 enters this fruitful market and can use this to negotiate future tv contracts.
thus, there clearly is a large range between the profits and losses incurred by big east teams in a given year.
199 other followerspowered by wordpress.com
in that moment, the nature and culture of mines football changed.
a second team brings an additional $6 million to its conference.
in the meantime, though, what is the big east to do?
since 2003, the big east has consisted of 16 member schools, with 8 participating in football and 8 being considered “non-football” schools.
one former television executive consulting to the big east estimates that the next big east media package will conservatively bring $90 million per year.
the big east currently has an aq slot (the mountain west has appealed for a spot).
san diego state has been a member of the mountain west, which was likely paying out up to $1.9 million per institution per year according to boise state president bob kustra.
in 2009-10, ucf received $3.3 million in revenue from licensing, royalties, advertising and sponsorship.
how do salaries of coaches in the big east compare to those of other conferences?
however, the conference remains a basketball talent hotbed, as teams such as uconn, georgetown, louisville and marquette continue to be conference members.
while this number in and of itself does not scream huge media ratings for the big east, it is important to compare how it stacks up to the media ratings of those schools leaving the big east.
in his business operations role, he oversees all financial matters for notre dame’s athletic department.
on july 27, 2004, a 6’7″ kicker who was on the honor roll each semester he was at mines, was driving home to colorado after completing an internship in california.
army, navy and brigham young also receive $100,000 each, and each of the ncaa’s football championship subdivision conferences receive $250,000.
with memphis set to announce its departure to the big east today, is the pairing a good fit? basketball one thing is certain: the big east is known for its basketball talent.
thus, non-texas based big 12 schools can likewise use the addition of the fort worth-based tcu to the big 12 as a recruiting tool.
posted in big east, bowl games, coaches 4 comments dec 20 posted by bcsguestwriter
we also have the benefit of a strong broadcasting relationship and fundraising,” said nevala.
in 2010-11,  big east competitor louisville turned a $27,551,289.00 profit with its  men’s basketball team.
last year’s ncaa division
feb 8 posted by alicia jessop today, the university of memphis is expected to announce that it is leaving conference usa for the big east beginning in 2013.
the play without any modification is risky, because it involves the quarterback remaining stationary while the receiver runs at full speed.
while pittsburgh was ranked the 23rd largest television market, syracuse was ranked the 81st.
the fourth consideration, and one that gets dwarfed by all of the others in the current world of professionalized collegiate athletics, is the impact on the remainder of the athletic department.
furthermore, nevala indicated that notre dame’s recruiting expenses may be higher than other schools’ because of the athletics department’s focus upon recruiting the best talent nationally.
although far from perfect, this data is the only available data for all division i programs.
the stadium is a 24-acre, 45,301 seat state-of-the-art facility.
thus, it’s in the big east’s best interest to secure schools who have performed well in recent years and also attract media viewership.
in 2003, mines began running the fly sweep play in practice.
the average football revenue for big east teams was $18.8 million, while football revenue for big 12 teams was $35.4 million on average.
the lowest average men’s sports head coaching salary was paid by cincinnati.
in 2004, the mines football team dedicated its season to its fallen teammate, scott hahn.
finances while memphis’ facilities are certainly impressive, certain financial  factors lead to questions as to whether the tigers will be competitive in the  big east.
on monday, a spreadsheet listing the top-50 spenders in terms of recruiting will be listed, sorted by total recruitment expense budget, amount spent per team on average and amount spent per player on average.
memphis will arguably be set to compete with the big east in terms of basketball.
hahn was taken to a hospital, where he later passed away at the tender age of 21.
while orlando has the third-largest media market in florida (behind tampa and miami), it is still the19th-largest in the united states.
finances while memphis’ facilities are certainly impressive, certain financial factors lead to questions as to whether the tigers will be competitive in the big east.
a copy of the big east’s bylaws is not publicly available.
how many other college coaches in america are telling their commissioners that they can’t go to a bowl game because it interferes with their players’ finals?
wvu’s lawsuit seeks a declaration of its rights and obligations under the big east’s bylaws, asserts that the bylaws were breached and asks that the court prevent the big east from holding wvu to the 27-month notice provision so that it can leave the conference next year.
as such, it would be in its best interest to attempt  to spend at least $1,000,000.00 on recruiting for all of its teams combined.
however, by securing two schools ranked in the top-25 during 2010, the big east can mitigate that argument.
had tcu remained in the big east, it would have to travel on a frequent basis to places like connecticut, pennsylvania, new york, wisconsin, washington d.c. and new jersey to compete.
notre dame receives $1.8 million.
the facility boasts an impressive five levels and over 100  concession stands.
this arena can seat 10,000 fans.
with its ability to generate a significant amount of revenue for the university, historical recognition as an athletics powerhouse and its desire to bring the best talent found nationwide to south bend, one thing is for sure: notre dame’s recruiting expenses will continue to lead the ncaa.
driving through utah, hahn fell asleep behind the wheel of his car.
media one factor about memphis which is likely attractive to the big east is its  media presence.
it accepted the big 12′s invitationthe same day.
memphis nicely fits this mold.
the tigers basketball  teams call the 18,119 seat fedexforum home.
in 2010-11, memphis  football had lower expenses and revenues than those of 2009-10, at  $8,609,503.00, for a profit of $0.00.
“one day, it just hit me.
today, recruitment expense data from the acc, big east, big ten, big 12 and conference usa will be posted.
we look at the film later, once we have a pool of kids who could do the engineering curriculum at mines.
since 2003, memphis has made the  ncaa tournament an impressive seven times.
wvu alleged that, “the non-football schools repeatedly exerted their newfound level of increased governance at the expense and to the detriment of the football schools.”
in 2010-11, memphis men’s basketball had expenses and  revenues of $6,739,131.00, for a profit of $0.00.
in 2008, the school was runner-up in the ncaa division i basketball national championship game.
thus, memphis’ 48th ranking falls  nicely in between pittsburgh and syracuse’s rankings, arguably pleasing  the big east.
basketball games tip-off in theucf arena, which opened its doors in the 2007-08 season.
on january 4, 2012, college football fans watched as the west virginia university mountaineers scored 70 points–the most points scored by one team in a bowl game–against the clemson tigers in the orange bowl.
because pitt and syracuse started the defection movement, such arguments are likely unreasonable for them to make.
this is because new football members will restore the balance of power between football and non-football schools, while securing well-performing football schools in strong media markets will likely help the big east maintain its bcs aq status.
four of the ten big 12 schools are located in texas.
this amount was the third-highest in the ncaa, and the highest in the big east, the conference in which notre dame is a member.
with the defecting by syracuse and pitt to the acc, the big east arguably loses some of its basketball prowess.
as such, it would be in its best interest to attempt to spend at least $1,000,000.00 on recruiting for all of its teams combined.
each of these schools would be a football participating member of the conference.
another important component of the cost bar is staffing.
even legendary louisville basketball coach, rick pitino, called for the conference to add memphis to its stable of schools.
that is almost double the median spending in the mountain west conference in absolute terms and $39k more per player than their current peer institutions spend.
when forced to travel outside of texas, tcu will visit oklahoma, missouri, iowa and kansas.
non-football schools are given an equal vote to the football schools on issues related to football.
the disparity for head coaches in the big east is the same as that in the pac-12, while the disparity for assistant coaches is less than that of the pac-12.
that innovation is what the world learned about when wvu’s holgorsen credited him with the play which ultimately led the mountaineers to score the most points in a bowl game.
then, we recruit the best of those kids.
before stitt began his coaching tenure at mines, the last coach to record more wins than losses during a career was the coaching duo of elmer capshaw and tim calahan, with a 4-2-1 record which was earned in the 1922-1923 season.
when stitt arrived at mines, he was met with a $5,500.00 recruiting budget.
it’s recorded as a pass, but it kind of looks like a volleyball tap-toss.
in 2009-10, memphis football had expenses and revenues of $11,557,329.00, for a profit of $0.00.
nevala’s explanation pointed to a significant factor for notre dame’s extensive recruiting budget: the fact that notre dame athletics drives a significant portion of the university’s revenue.
rather, marquette spent the most, on average, per team in terms of recruiting expenses per men’s sports teams.
next year kicks off the start of a 13-year second-tier television rights contract with fox worth $1.17 billion.
built seven years ago, the fedexforum also has a 22×38 square foot scoreboard, which according to the fedexforum, is one of the largest in the nation.
the following depicts conference and institution football revenue for the fiscal period between july 1, 2009 through june 30, 2010: big east: $18.8m ucf: $15,173,200.00 ucf’s football revenue during this time period was greater than other big east school’s, including uconn, whose football revenue was $14,400,371.00.