we don't claim to lock in a winner every single day, but we can assure you through meticulous research backed by 2 decades of sports handicapping experience, we will produce consistent winners.
our nba monthly picks packages includes: · 4 weeks of nba  regular season ·
© 1987 sportrends inc.
our ncaa bb monthly picks packages includes: · 4 weeks of ncaa  regular season · playoffs receive 30 days of expert col basketball action at a fraction of the cost -  only$149.95!
play delivery all plays will be  delivered with a line constraint or specified pitcher.
we also recommend experimenting  with different sports-books, some move lines faster than others, so see what  works best for you.
play delivery all plays will be delivered with a line constraint or specified pitcher.
with over 2 decades of experience in handicapping sports events, we know  exactly what is required to beat the odds-makers.
football, basketball and baseball are all included with this package where applicable.
our nfl monthly picks packages includes: · 4 weeks of nfl  regular season · 4 nfl monday  games · 3 nfl saturday  games receive 30 days of expert pro football action at a fraction of the cost -  only$149.95!
no write-ups all our sports selections will not include a write-up.
you receive 30 days of expert action on every sport depending on the season.
our nfl monthly picks packages includes: · 4 weeks of nfl regular season · 4 nfl monday games · 3 nfl thursday games · 3 nfl saturday games receive 30 days of expert pro football action at a fraction of the cost - only$149.95!
no write-ups all our sports selections will not  include a write-up.
we urge you to pay close  attention to them.
our experience has  been to make your plays 15 – 20 minutes prior to game time to let lines
this will make the service more efficient, allow more time  for handicapping, and preserve the value of certain handicapping information  longer.
if you're a sports investor...
join now our prices are very affordable and will remain that way because of our high volume traffic.
we are confident our  proven method will yield the highest possible return on your investment.
we believe there's never a "lock" on baseball and the only way  to win is through rock-solid handicapping, good money management and  reliable information.
so if you’re looking for a  no-nonsense, highly profitable approach to sports betting, look no further .
by being more selective we are better able to produce a high win  percentage and are a service that can be utilized with confidence.
this will make the service more efficient, allow more time for handicapping, and preserve the value of certain handicapping information longer.
line movement & sports-books
our mlb monthly picks packages includes: · 4 weeks of baseball regular season ·
we also recommend experimenting with different sports-books, some move lines faster than others, so see what works best for you.
release times & placing your wagers release times may vary day to day depending on the sport, betting market  and how quickly sports-books post lines with full limits.
since 1987 we have set new standards of integrity, customer service, and customer satisfaction in the sports service industry.
the aim of our service is to make you money.
sides receive 30 days of expert col football action at a fraction of the cost -  only$149.95!
you receive 30 days of expert action on  every sport depending on the season.
we don't claim to lock in a winner every single day, but we can assure you  through meticulous research backed by 2 decades of sports handicapping  experience, we will produce consistent winners.
our experience has been to make your plays 15 20 minutes prior to game time to let lines settle out.
the end result is that we will have the opportunity to provide you with  more plays.
no portion of this website may be reproduced or redistributed without prior express written consent of sportrends, inc.
join now our prices are very affordable and will remain that way  because of our high volume traffic.
no portion of this website may be reproduced or  redistributed without prior express written consent of sportrends, inc.
with over 2 decades of expertise in the field of sports handicapping we can make this all possible for you.
for over 2 decades in handicapping sports events, you can depend on sportrends to provide researched college football plays.
for over 2 decades in handicapping sports events, you can depend on  sportrends to provide researched college football plays.
our mlb monthly picks packages includes: · 4 weeks of  baseball regular season ·
release times & placing your wagers release times may vary day to day depending on the sport, betting market and how quickly sports-books post lines with full limits.
playoffs receive 30 days of expert col basketball action at a fraction of the cost - only$149.95!
playoffs receive 30 days of expert pro basketball action at a fraction of the cost -  only$149.95!
so team up with us this season.
we urge you to pay close attention to them.
the aim of our service is to  make you money.
playoffs receive 30 days of expert pro basketball action at a fraction of the cost - only$149.95!
it is essential to optimize yourself and be prepared to place wagers immediately upon release in order to take full advantage of this service.
with over 2 decades of experience in handicapping sports events, we know exactly what is required to beat the odds-makers.
monthly picks packages includes: · 4 weeks of ncaa regular season · mid week plays · money line ·
our ncaa bb monthly picks packages includes: · 4 weeks of ncaa regular season ·
our nba monthly picks packages includes: · 4 weeks of nba regular season ·
with over 2 decades of expertise in the field of sports  handicapping we can make this all possible for you.
ready to really win the big money, sportrends presents the following sports investment packages!
order | software overview | free software | download stats | free software |premium internet service | free daily picks team stats |  vegas odds | sports links | advertising | contact us | home © 1987 sportrends inc.
sides receive 30 days of expert col football action at a fraction of the cost - only$149.95!
sportrends is a highly selective sports service.
since 1987  we have set new standards of integrity, customer service, and customer  satisfaction in the sports service industry.
we are confident our proven method will yield the highest possible return on your investment.
© 1987 college and pro football prophet.
what to expect from sportrends
monthly picks packages includes: · 4 weeks of ncaa  regular season · mid week plays ·
any use  of this information in violation of any federal, state or local laws is  strictly prohibited.
so team up with us  this season.
all rights reserved.
by being more selective we are better able to produce a high win percentage and are a service that can be utilized with confidence.
we put our resources to work for you by providing the best nba sports handicapping service with over 20 years of expertise.
so if youre looking for a no-nonsense, highly profitable approach to sports betting, look no further .
we believe there's never a "lock" on baseball and the only way to win is through rock-solid handicapping, good money management and reliable information.
we will not release  a game to customers unless we know that we have the latest crucial handicapping  information.
football, basketball and baseball are all included with this package where  applicable.
it is essential to  optimize yourself and be prepared to place wagers immediately upon release in  order to take full advantage of this service.
we put our resources to work for you by providing the best nba sports  handicapping service with over 20 years of expertise.
we will not release a game to customers unless we know that we have the latest crucial handicapping information.
the end result is that we will have the opportunity to provide you with more plays.
any use of this information in violation of any federal, state or local laws is strictly prohibited.