greatest  basketball player?
the exposers of jordon's  foolishness my controversial, award-winning site that exposes the clay feet of the tin  god michael jordon.
stripped down, just-the-facts site that shows why michael jordan is not the  greatest basketball player ever.
click here to see pictures of my favorite basketball players the most exhaustive page on the internet dedicated to the greatest player in nba history.
he maybe #2, #20, or #2000, but he is  not #1.
when you even the  playing field, you see that he is not the best.
this site has  only one purpose: to show that no matter what criteria is used, michael jordan  is not the greatest player ever.
because of the unfounded hype, i created a webpage using hype in the other extreme, in order to demonstrate the absurdity of the press.
this is  the only site i have that features a guest book.
it was my first attempt at web page  design -- ahhh!
that got this site a bunch of  hits (1000 before he died, 50,000 during 3 months after he died).
i am simply sick of the media worshipping him and holding  him to a lesser standard than others are held to.
it was featured on  yahoo on the news story about his death.
it was my first attempt at web page design -- ahhh!
this is my tribute to the basketball  legend, wilt chamberlain.
reviews of books from my 100+ book collection.
this section is also the one that i have dedicated by far the most time to.
not  only is he the most overrated basketball player in history, and an  out-of-control megalomaniac.
i made this  nearly a year and half before he died (and even got an e-mail from him thanking  me for it!).
one of  the funniest parts is how people take it so seriously, so for added humorous  benefit, iprint the hate mail and the praise mail.
(and how many tell me, "you can't spell his name right!")
"organizations win champions" - read the real reason the  chicago bulls won 6 championships.
the two should not be combined.
the most exhaustive page on the internet dedicated to the greatest player  in nba history.
i don't care if you think michael jordan is the 2nd greatest player of  all-time.
it contains interactive sections as well, and most of my graphics work.
when people call him thebest ever, it becomes obvious that  they don't understandever, because they lack knowledge of basketball  history.
when you even the playing field, you see that he is not the best.
it contains the java applets and java script that i have learned.
i may  remove the frames someday, but for now, i can't think of an easier way to  navigate the 75+ html document related to it.
i grow tired of the hype of the media,  saying he is "without a doubt the best ever", instead of, saying that  he is "one of the best ever."  because of the unfounded hype, i  created a webpage using hype in the other extreme, in order to demonstrate the  absurdity of the press.
making fun of him in his  current job as part-owner of the washington wizards is just too easy.
my exposers of jordon's foolishness site was a lot of fun, but some people thought that because of the humor, that it completely lacked in factual information (due to the obviously absurd parts).
after he died, i overhauled it.
air judden's  basketball book library reviews of books from my 100+ book collection.
basketball (click the pictures to go to the sections)
there is no challenge.
it contains interactive  sections as well, and most of my graphics work.
i don't update this site very much anymore.
it is part truth with a humorous twist.
however, he happens to be one of the greatest cooks in the world, so this proves that i am unbiased."
as a result, i created this alternate,  smaller site to prove what i said before: jordan is good, but you cannot say  with certainty that he is without a doubt, the greatest ever.
i don't care if think he is better than chamberlain and somebody else is better than both of them.
(click the pictures to go to the sections)
this is a bare-bones, all-facts/no humor site.
when people call him thebest ever, it becomes obvious that they don't understandever, because they lack knowledge of basketball history.
you don't hear any baseball or football player called the best ever.
because basketball has degenerated from a serious sport into an entertainment business, and jordan, while he was a great player, was an even better entertainer.
this is my pride and joy section.
why jordan is not the greatest
the sister page to the exposers of jordon's foolishness page.
therefore, the theme of the site is "michael jordon is a foolish ballhog.
if you just don't "get it", then go to the "political agenda" section and read how he masterminded the clinton-lewinski scandal.
he makes my all-time all-nba team.
i may remove the frames someday, but for now, i can't think of an easier way to navigate the 75+ html document related to it.
no.  the two should not be combined.
i grow tired of the hype of the media, saying he is "without a doubt the best ever", instead of, saying that he is "one of the best ever."
this section is also the one  that i have dedicated by far the most time to.
it is just priceless  how some people just don't "get it."  (and how many tell me,  "you can't spell his name right!")
therefore, the theme of the site is "michael  jordon is a foolish ballhog.
stripped down, just-the-facts site that shows why michael jordan is not the greatest basketball player ever.
my controversial, award-winning site that exposes the clay feet of the tin god michael jordon.
the jerries: heroes of chicago
click  here to see pictures of my favorite basketball players a tribute to wilt chamberlain
this site has only one purpose: to show that no matter what criteria is used, michael jordan is not the greatest player ever.
the cybertemple dedicated to the living legend and the 20th century's most significant being - clarence weatherspoon.
as a result, i created this alternate, smaller site to prove what i said before: jordan is good, but you cannot say with certainty that he is without a doubt, the greatest ever.
my exposers of  jordon's foolishness site was a lot of fun, but some people thought that  because of the humor, that it completely lacked in factual information (due to  the obviously absurd parts).
it contains the java  applets and java script that i have learned.
his teammates won in spite of him.
if you think he is in your opinion, that is fine, but i simply ask  that you first define your criteria for judging players, and then i will show  that your very own criteria does not support the conclusion that jordan is  #1.
"organizations win champions" - read the real reason the chicago bulls won 6 championships.
if you think he is in your opinion, that is fine, but i simply ask that you first define your criteria for judging players, and then i will show that your very own criteria does not support the conclusion that jordan is #1.
not only is he the most overrated basketball player in history, and an out-of-control megalomaniac.
because basketball has degenerated from a serious sport  into an entertainment business, and jordan, while he was a great player, was an  even better entertainer.
he makes my all-time  all-nba team.
i don't care if think he is better than  chamberlain and somebody else is better than both of them.
it is just priceless how some people just don't "get it."
it is part  truth with a humorous twist.
it's like shooting fish in a barrel.
however, he happens to be one of the  greatest cooks in the world, so this proves that i am unbiased."  if  you just don't "get it", then go to the "political agenda"  section and read how he masterminded the clinton-lewinski scandal.
making fun of him in his current job as part-owner of the washington wizards is just too easy.
this was my second website.
greatest basketball player?
and no, i don't ask that  you sign it.
one of the funniest parts is how people take it so seriously, so for added humorous benefit, iprint the hate mail and the praise mail.
greatest entertainer?
i am simply sick of the media worshipping him and holding him to a lesser standard than others are held to.
it is for those who wanted to share a wilt thought or  story.
he maybe #2, #20, or #2000, but he is not #1.
the nation of spoon the cybertemple dedicated to the living legend and the 20th century's most  significant being - clarence weatherspoon.
this is not some "i hate jordan" page.
i don't care if you think michael jordan is the 2nd greatest player of all-time.
i don't care if you think that wilt chamberlain isnot the greatest player ever.