an early lead over  xavier in the big dance was a nice baby step, but it is time to begin making  real strides.
even this crude calculation by rivals.com, however, offers meaningful insights into the state of what otherwise isas strong an athletics program as any in the conference.
the georgia men’s basketball program has been a liability and should be a strength.
the classic city canines made up the difference with 32.5 points in baseball, far more than the 17 the irish received on the strength of their 2002 trip to omaha.
rivals.com’s numbers may be somewhat skewed, but they do not lie at the bottom line.
but i personally regard it with something approximating indifference.
david perno has the diamond dogs on sound ground.
the ‘dawgs and the irish were tied with 65 points apiece in football, but notre dame’s eight straight n.c.a.a. tournament appearances from 1999 to 2006 boosted the golden domers to 28 points in men’s basketball, whereas the red and black’s 25-year-old final four berth got georgia only as far as 12 points.
if georgia  had matched florida’s 42 points in basketball during that period, it  would have put the bulldogs in the top ten.
an  athletics program as prominent as georgia's, and with as many natural and  institutional advantages, ought to be good consistently at multiple sports, and  certainly at the second-most important sport, in terms of money and prestige,  in intercollegiate competition.
it’s time for our men’s basketball program to step it up to the  next level.
no, georgia basketball doesn’t enjoy kentucky’s tradition, or even arkansas’s, but there’s no reason why the bulldogs can’t improve their stature in the sport in the same way florida and tennessee have in recent years.
we have passed the point at which progress  any longer ought to be an expectation; starting next season, it must be made a  non-negotiable demand.
rivals.com’s methodology was somewhat confusing---the formula, for  instance, states contradictorily that a team gets five points for a third- or  fourth-place finish in the college world series but receives three points for  the selfsame third- or fourth-place finish in the college world series---but,  assuming that we are all agreed thatintercollegiate athletics are superior to  professional sports, i thought it was worth exploring how the bulldogs fared  according to these rankings.
if georgia had matched florida’s 42 points in basketball during that period, it would have put the bulldogs in the top ten.
is that it rewards quantity as much as quality.
to some extent, of course, these numbers are arbitrary.
asi wrote last march: it was one thing when s.e.c. basketball was kentucky, occasionally  vanderbilt, and not much of anyone else; then, there was no shame in not being  very good at something no one outside of the bluegrass state seemed terribly  interested in being good at doing.
tweet  5 comments  |  0 recs  | do you like this story?
the georgia football program is on top of the world and  happy about it.
i believe my position on basketball has been made abundantly clear: it is an important sport
the ‘dawgs and the irish were tied with 65  points apiece in football, but notre dame’s eight straight n.c.a.a.  tournament appearances from 1999 to 2006 boosted the golden domers to 28 points  in men’s basketball, whereas the red and black’s 25-year-old final  four berth got georgia only as far as 12 points.
newsletter signup about sb nation frequently asked questions terms of use privacy policy guiding principles advertise with us jobs @ vox media contact us opencalais - powered by thomson reuters
by fotodog on jul 6, 2008 2:57 am edt reply actions . . .
it was one thing when s.e.c. basketball was kentucky, occasionally vanderbilt, and not much of anyone else; then, there was no shame in not being very good at something no one outside of the bluegrass state seemed terribly interested in being good at doing.
by fotodog on jul 6, 2008 2:51 am edt reply actions after looking at the standings, i think uga should add a women’s lacrosse or water polo team, whichever is cheaper.
it is not hard to see where the deficiency lies.
on the diamond, the red and black arethe country’s twelfth-best team over the last decade.
georgia’s sensational run through the s.e.c. tournament last spring got us all excited, but the euphoria has worn off and it is time for us to expect more than a long weekend’s worth of excellence.
surveys like this one, however, explain why it matters to me to see georgia improve at men’s basketball.
read more: georgia bulldogs
i would have suggested men’s volleyball, but with title ix that seems unlikely.
rivals.com’s methodology was somewhat confusing---the formula, for instance, states contradictorily that a team gets five points for a third- or fourth-place finish in the college world series but receives three points for the selfsame third- or fourth-place finish in the college world series---but, assuming that we are all agreed thatintercollegiate athletics are superior to professional sports, i thought it was worth exploring how the bulldogs fared according to these rankings.
i know we probably can’t beat stanford or ucla because we don’t field teams in water polo, wake boarding, beach volley ball, snow skiing, bowling or hacky-sack, but we had a pretty amazing run this year with at least 3 national titles, two #2 finishes in major sports and a conference championship in our achilles heel, basketball.
there are so few teams, even if we stink, we still probably get a #10 ranking and reap some more points.
and i understand why fans of it enjoy it as much as they do,
georgia’s  2002 s.e.c. championship squad compiled a resume of achievement equal to or  better than that of more than a couple of the national champions who have been  crowned since richard nixon left office, but the bulldogs received half as many  points (5) for mark richt’s second season in athens as the gators  received for urban meyer’s altogether comparable second season in  gainesville (10).
an early lead over xavier in the big dance was a nice baby step, but it is time to begin making real strides.
in the three biggest sports in the b.c.s. era, florida finished third,  louisiana state fourth, tennessee eighth, georgia tech eleventh, alabama  twelfth, auburn 13th, and arkansas 20th, butgeorgia did not make the top 20  since 1998.
but my hope is that this was the  breakthrough that will put georgia basketball on the road to respectability,  significance, and, ultimately, success at the highest level.
and i understand why fans of it enjoy it as much as they do, but i personally regard it with something approximating indifference.
that began to change around the time arkansas changed conference allegiances.
by nct about 19 hours ago 8 comments | 1 recs by vineyarddawg about 21 hours ago 5 comments | 1 recs by windycitydawg 3 days ago 3 comments by downindixie 5 days ago 9 comments by davethedawg 5 days ago 63 comments | 1 recs by t kyle king 6 days ago 2 comments by captjacksparrow 6 days ago 6 comments by alkaline5 16 days ago 37 comments by dawg2011 17 days ago 11 comments | 4 recs by tankertoad 19 days ago 355 comments + new fanpost all fanposts > subscribe more videos link land-grant holy land more from sbnation.com > 2012 nfl mock draft ufc 2012 nfl schedule halo 4 release date lumia 900 review stanley cup playoffs 2012 nba mock draft el clasico 2012 arsenal vs.
asi wrote last march: it was one thing when s.e.c. basketball was kentucky, occasionally vanderbilt, and not much of anyone else; then, there was no shame in not being very good at something no one outside of the bluegrass state seemed terribly interested in being good at doing.
barcelona uefa champions league semifinal t kyle king macondawg davethedawg nct vineyarddawg redcrake tankertoad podunkdawg ludakit spears hailtogeorgia mr. sanchez the quincy carter of accountants copyright © 2012 vox media, inc.
i believe my position on basketball has been made abundantly clear: it is  an important sport
rivals.com reports that georgia ranks 17th overall since 1974, half a point  behind no. 16 notre dame.
rivals.com reports that georgia ranks 17th overall since 1974, half a point behind no. 16 notre dame.
in short, the s.e.c. has gotten good at basketball, too,  without sacrificing its commitment to quality football. . . .
that would have been good enough to boost the bulldogs from 17th overall since 1974 to 13th.
id add dawg sports to my yahoo!
by t kyle king on jul 6, 2008 8:34 am edt reply actions community blog posts and discussion.
we have passed the point at which progress any longer ought to be an expectation; starting next season, it must be made a non-negotiable demand.
if the results were averaged (i.e., if it showed how well a school was doing overall in the sports in which it participated) rather than lumped together, it would give us a more accurate portrait of how good an athletics program a university was running.
in the three biggest sports in the b.c.s. era, florida finished third, louisiana state fourth, tennessee eighth, georgia tech eleventh, alabama twelfth, auburn 13th, and arkansas 20th, butgeorgia did not make the top 20 since 1998.
placed georgia tenth, behind no. 1 stanford, no. 2 u.c.l.a., no. 3 michigan, no. 4 arizona state, no. 5 texas, no. 6 florida, no. 7 california, no. 8 louisiana state, and no. 9 penn state, but ahead of no. 11 ohio state, no. 12 texas a&m, no. 13 southern california, no. 14 north carolina, and no. 15 florida state.
the georgia men’s basketball program has been a  liability and should be a strength.
basketball is holding georgia back by t kyle king on jul 5, 2008 10:59 am edt in basketball tweet email print it was brought to my attention by bruins nation that rivals.com recently  ranked college athletics programs based upon their combined success at  baseball, basketball and football.
rivals.com’s numbers may be somewhat skewed, but they do not lie at  the bottom line.
by t kyle king on jul 6, 2008 12:41 am edt reply actions i couldn’t remember the actual title of the award.
the classic city canines made  up the difference with 32.5 points in baseball, far more than the 17 the irish  received on the strength of their 2002 trip to omaha.
id sign in with facebook use openid openid remember don't have openid?sign up by t kyle king on jul 5, 2008 10:59 am edt in basketballtweet it was brought to my attention by bruins nation that rivals.com recently ranked college athletics programs based upon their combined success at baseball, basketball and football.
it’s time for our men’s basketball program to step it up to the next level.
at a minimum, mississippi state- or south carolina-level success ought to be a given.
on the hardwood, however, the classic city canines are nowhere to  be found.
surveys like this one, however, explain why it matters to me to see georgia  improve at men’s basketball.
indeed, there was, in no small  sense, rather a manly satisfaction to be derived from deriding the neighboring  a.c.c. as "a basketball conference"---by which was meant, of course, only a basketball conference, a league that had to settle for being good  at hoops because it lacked the masculine fortitude to excel on the gridiron.
tennessee finished 16th, auburn 20th, arkansas 24th, alabama 25th, kentucky 36th, and south carolina 48th.
tweet 5 comments | 0 recs | read more: georgia bulldogssign in with your yahoo!
display: expanded collapsed any word on the presidents’ cup standings?
the georgia football program is on top of the world and happy about it.
by fotodog on jul 5, 2008 9:56 pm edt reply actions . . .
the notion that stantord is the top sports school in the n.c.a.a. isn’t just erroneous, it’s comical.
no, georgia basketball doesn’t enjoy kentucky’s  tradition, or even arkansas’s, but there’s no reason why the  bulldogs can’t improve their stature in the sport in the same way florida  and tennessee have in recent years.
navigation: jump to content areas: screen name password remember forgot password?
on the hardwood, however, the classic city canines are nowhere to be found.
on the  diamond, the red and black arethe country’s twelfth-best team over the  last decade.
georgia’s sensational run through the s.e.c. tournament last spring  got us all excited, but the euphoria has worn off and it is time for us to  expect more than a long weekend’s worth of excellence.
if, instead of collecting an anemic 12 points in basketball since 1974, the  classic city canines had amassed 25.5 points---equal to the totals earned by  alabama and oklahoma state in that same span---georgia would have finished with  a cumulative 123 points in the three sports combined.
if, instead of collecting an anemic 12 points in basketball since 1974, the classic city canines had amassed 25.5 points---equal to the totals earned by alabama and oklahoma state in that same span---georgia would have finished with a cumulative 123 points in the three sports combined.
that would have been good  enough to boost the bulldogs from 17th overall since 1974 to 13th.
if  the only way to be good at basketball was to be lousy at football---and, if  kentucky, vanderbilt, and the atlantic coast conference were any indication,  that certainly seemed to be the case---then who cared about basketball?
at a minimum, mississippi state- or south  carolina-level success ought to be a given.
on the gridiron, the  bulldogs aretied for eleventh since 1974 and tied for ninth since 1998.
on the gridiron, the bulldogs aretied for eleventh since 1974 and tied for ninth since 1998.
my fear is that dennis's dogs, motivated by the  desire to save their coach's imperiled job, played above their heads during a  whirlwind four-day period in which they didn't have the time to think about the  impossibility of what they were doing . . .
even this crude calculation by rivals.com, however, offers meaningful  insights into the state of what otherwise isas strong an athletics program as  any in the conference.
georgia’s 2002 s.e.c. championship squad compiled a resume of achievement equal to or better than that of more than a couple of the national champions who have been crowned since richard nixon left office, but the bulldogs received half as many points (5) for mark richt’s second season in athens as the gators received for urban meyer’s altogether comparable second season in gainesville (10).