gopher football fans aren't hard to find, but getting them to admit they're gopher football fans is another story altogether.
i'd say the biggest obstacle facing minnesota is lack of fan support.
when i was a freshman at u of montana and came back to visit my parents over christmas break and the griz played in devaney against the cornhuskers.
there’s your “winner-winner free range chicken dinner”!
by ohiohusker on feb 10, 2012 12:13 pm cst up reply actions aside from baseball which has a decent following…does anyone in nebraska care about any other sports?
can’t sell 7-5, 8-4, 9-3 when the twins are challenging in the central and the vike’s are competing for nfc titles, even though the gopher’s seasons are laying a foundation for future success.
i suppose it's a fair trade with minnesota.
is it good enough to be average, finishing in the middle of the  conference all of the time, or do you expect to build a program that contends  for conference titles?
minnesota  just built itself a shiny new stadium, and if you went to the nebraska game  this year, you know it's a pretty nice place to watch football.
the game sucks from my perspective.
i see no reason why we can’t because i think we have that passion to be better, to not settle.
if you don't' support the team you're not going to sway  the recruits you need to consistently have a winner.
we can’t really get rid of the men’s team, given that it makes money and that funds other sports that don’t.
take everything i've just said about  minnesota football and apply it to husker men's basketball.
i spent the better part, lol, of 3 years in lincoln and in my experience the answer is, other than the athlethes of other sports and their friends, no. by conspiracy* on feb 9, 2012 3:47 pm cst reply actions i guess what i’m saying is that if men’s basketball is to change, that attitude has to change.
if what i think about us is true, i think we can succeed and eventually reach a level where we are in the top 25 year in and year out.
navigation: jump to content areas: screen name password remember forgot password?
by redvalley on feb 9, 2012 5:30 pm cst up reply actions by doc1028 on feb 9, 2012 8:49 pm cst up reply actions community blog posts and discussion.
the star  tribune had an article about it, and tubby smith headed back north insisting  that the gophers need to upgrade their facilities.
take everything i've just said about minnesota football and apply it to husker men's basketball.
what i hope is that nebraskans have a slightly different mindset about success, enough to want to strive to be the best regardless.
if you ask, minnesota would say they've made a commitment to having a good  football team.
why minnesota may never be good at football (and how that relates to  nebraska basketball) by jon johnston on feb 9, 2012 8:02 am cst in nebraska husker basketball tweet email print if there was one good thing that happened regarding nebraska's game against  minnesota last sunday, it was that minnesota's staff came away from lincoln,  nebraska blown away by their tour of thehendricks training complex.
"my hardest job is to convince the people of nebraska that 10-1 is not a losing season."
make the fans pay to see the 13th-ranked women, and let ’em in free to watch the boys.
neither have been much good in the last 50 years, which leaves very few people currently alive to agitate for a return to the good old days (although i don’t think any such days ever existed for husker basketball).
minnesota has to get people  into the mode that they're going to have some patience and let things work, but  mostly, they're going to have to get over the fickle nature of "i'll go  when they're good enough".
facilities are no longer the excuse they once were.
the real question is - "what is good enough?".
minnesota  doesn't have that, and compared to nebraska, probably never will.
so why didn't minnesota spend the money on a big name hire?
follow @cornnation twitter cornnation@gmail.com by jon johnston on feb 9, 2012 4:44 pm cst up reply actions by conspiracy* on feb 9, 2012 5:21 pm cst up reply actions of what they planned last night and tonight.
other than that, i never had an ambition to walk the half mile to watch them play.
we are incredibly inelastic when it comes to quality.
with basketball you are only starting 5 players and with one or two really good recruits/players you can easily build a good run and progress from there.
they had limited success with this with mason (nebraska may remember from similar success at kansas), but instead of allowing mason to build on this, they fire him.
i just wish we'd quit giving ourselves so many learning opportunities.
it sure as hell  beats the old metrodome, which was like watching football at a rest home, or  inside a toilet, whichever comparison you like best.
and if that’s the case, why the hell did lincoln just spend the money to build a new stadium?
google's homepage celebrates too much shit.
if you attended last night’s men’s game, your ticket gets you in free for tonight’s women’s game.
i’m not trying to be rude, but it’s a standard to say no one cares.
gopher football fans aren't hard to find, but getting them to admit they're  gopher football fans is another story altogether.
this speaks a bit to fan apathy, but in a large metropolitan city where the professional teams are enjoying a measure of success, it’s to be expected.
the successful learn from their failures.
by cubehead 6 days ago 5 comments by adamthetitan 11 days ago 3 comments | 1 recs by brutus1382 11 days ago 0 comments by look_a_red_squirrel 17 days ago 2 comments by ncgamecock about 1 month ago 6 comments by joefromboalsburg about 1 month ago 10 comments by adamthetitan about 1 month ago 10 comments | 3 recs by adamthetitan about 1 month ago 9 comments by mrcollegeftbll83 about 1 month ago 34 comments by atcking about 1 month ago 1 comments + new fanpost all fanposts > quick hits of video, photos, quotes, chats, links and lists that you find around the web.
go big red nebraska!
look at nebraska - the  huskers stolelydon murtha and nate swift from minnesota largely because of the  lincoln game day environment.
because what we have with football is pretty unique and something a program really can never expect, for honestly, i think we accept alot of crap from our fb program.
mason couldn’t spell “defense”, and i hear that it’s an important part of the game.
i remember standing up and screaming at bill jackman during a game, and the entire place looked at me as if i were some sort of deranged nutball.
the football team has been bad for years, seeing some success under glen mason,  but dropping below ground in the tim brewster era.
- tom osborne by jdhusker on feb 9, 2012 12:16 pm cst reply actions neither have been much good in the last 50 years, which leaves very few people currently alive to agitate for a return to the good old days (although i don’t think any such days ever existed for husker basketball) the 90’s were decent enough with winning conference championships and tournaments but we’ve been stuck in a rut the past 12 years.
poor non-conference schedules, poor teams with cahallan and solich, and we still attend and watch.
they're 18 to 22...how perfect were you at that age?
if you're goal is to be average, then, really, what's  the point?
time will tell if he can turn their program around.
he wasn't a name coach, a big money "splash" hire, but he worked his way through his first year despite suffering health issues and made some improvement along the way.
by meatybob on feb 9, 2012 9:35 am cst reply actions the nebraska/wisconsin football model (though nebraska had gotten away from this a bit, now coming back).
i don’t know if we’ve seen that with fans in seats, but when you live here, you don’t really accept second-best for anything, especially when it comes to the huskers.
i guess it's nice that they  were impressed with the facilities because they sure weren't with the husker  basketball team.
minnesota has to get people into the mode that they're going to have some patience and let things work, but mostly, they're going to have to get over the fickle nature of "i'll go when they're good enough".
and while fan support matters, its really up to the coach to give fan a reason to cheer.
and if that’s true, how do you change it?
it may because  they don't have it, but it may also be that nagging excuse that minnesota is  just a stop on the way to somewhere else, so what's the point with hiring a big  name that's going to build something then leave in three or four years?
nebraska still plays basketball?
is it good enough to be average, finishing in the middle of the conference all of the time, or do you expect to build a program that contends for conference titles?
the apathy created by long term suckage in these sports is only compounded by the presence of huskers and vikings football.
minnesota doesn't have that, and compared to nebraska, probably never will.
by whitespeedreceiver on feb 9, 2012 7:01 pm cst up reply actions nebrasketball and gopher football are very similar.
the football team has been bad for years, seeing some success under glen mason, but dropping below ground in the tim brewster era.
newsletter signup about us frequently asked questions terms of use privacy policy guiding principles advertise with us contact us certain photos copyright © 2012 by associated press or getty images.
display: expanded collapsed it is a similar picture, isn’t it?
look at nebraska - the huskers stolelydon murtha and nate swift from minnesota largely because of the lincoln game day environment.
the star tribune had an article about it, and tubby smith headed back north insisting that the gophers need to upgrade their facilities.
if you ask, minnesota would say they've made a commitment to having a good football team.
there is nothing like fan support.
or do you just say the hell with it, and don’t give a flying shit that nebrasketball is horrid, possibly the worst team in the big ten conference?
by rogerja on feb 9, 2012 9:40 am cst reply actions but…there’s one spectacular flaw here.
you might respond with wondering about the jerry kill hiring.
so that’s my hope, that after we let the good guy sadler go away after this season, we make the financial commitment to bring in someone bigger who will not only get the “hidden” fanbase excited, but get better recruits interested as well.
minnesota just built itself a shiny new stadium, and if you went to the nebraska game this year, you know it's a pretty nice place to watch football.
but then again, i hate watching my daughter play basketball and she’s pretty good.
by doc1028 on feb 9, 2012 8:47 pm cst up reply actions 1 recs and free throws are, sad to say, the two memories i have of nebraska basketball during that time….the shoes were tossed when jerry shoecraft decided to make a good play and jack moore’s free throws were always a work of art to behold.
by jf1husker on feb 9, 2012 9:17 am cst reply actions outside of getting a new coach.
for husker basketball, i think this switch over to the haymarket arena is a reasonably good chance to get people invested (they’re already financially invested since the good people of lincoln voted to raise taxes on everyone visiting the city to pay for it), but i do think its a fairly narrow window.
while facilities matter, all in all, we are just unlucky with coaches and well, we were spoiled with nee and didn’t realize how good we did have it.
if you made it this far, you're probably wondering why i'm spending all  this time talking about gopher football.
by todd wolverton on feb 9, 2012 2:52 pm cst reply actions when we were there, it was moe iba, and the place was a morgue.
i guess it's nice that they were impressed with the facilities because they sure weren't with the husker basketball team.
hmmm, maybe we fans are a little demanding?
develop good, homegrown linemen and go to the coasts and cities to get your speed and skill.
it sure as hell beats the old metrodome, which was like watching football at a rest home, or inside a toilet, whichever comparison you like best.
put yourself in charge – how do you do it?
id sign in with facebook use openid openid remember don't have openid?sign up by jon johnston on feb 9, 2012 8:02 am cst in nebraska husker basketballtweet if there was one good thing that happened regarding nebraska's game against minnesota last sunday, it was that minnesota's staff came away from lincoln, nebraska blown away by their tour of thehendricks training complex.
any commercial use or distribution without the express written consent of associated press and getty images is strictly prohibited.
now tell me, what is nebraska going to do to build a winning men's  basketball team?
btw, danny nee’s previous stop, here at good ol’ ohio u, still hasn’t fully recovered from his departure either.
by salt creek and stadium 7 days ago 0 comments by conspiracy* 13 days ago 13 comments by conspiracy* 17 days ago 6 comments by section 37 22 days ago 1 comment by jdhusker 22 days ago 0 comments by section 37 28 days ago 1 comment by jdhusker about 1 month ago 7 comments by section 37 about 1 month ago 1 comment by jdhusker about 1 month ago 0 comments by husker mike about 1 month ago 4 comments + new fanshot all fanshots > link college-football.si.com +72 updates +200 updates more from sbnation.com >
it may because they don't have it, but it may also be that nagging excuse that minnesota is just a stop on the way to somewhere else, so what's the point with hiring a big name that's going to build something then leave in three or four years?
tweet 16 comments | add comment | 0 recs | read more: suckage, tim brewster, glen mason, jerry kill, nebrasketball, lydon murtha (ol - nebraska), nate swift (wr - nebraska), nebraska cornhuskerssign in with your yahoo!
he wasn't a  name coach, a big money "splash" hire, but he worked his way through  his first year despite suffering health issues and made some improvement along  the way.
it is in these programs that the fan bases of the programs in question place their true passion, and because husker and vikings football are generally successful enterprises, they’re willing to put up with a substandard product in their secondary rooting interests.
by doc1028 on feb 9, 2012 2:10 pm cst up reply actions it’s beneficial for us that our problem is in basketball and not football.
what watch it unless you want to see if your bracket choices are right and you have a chance to win a pretty good sum of cash in november.
by doc1028 on feb 9, 2012 2:14 pm cst reply actions in my five years as a college student, the last four at good ol’ nebraska u, i attended one basketball game . . .
follow @cornnation twitter cornnation@gmail.com by jon johnston on feb 9, 2012 4:46 pm cst up reply actions the entire place looked at me as if i were some sort of deranged nutball
a run of pretty good teams and a couple of nba draft picks from his successor, but then he was fired for not being astoundingly, as opposed to consistently, successful.
we’d have gone more were that the case then.
now tell me, what is nebraska going to do to build a winning men's basketball team?
if you're goal is to be average, then, really, what's the point?
opencalais - powered by thomson reuters
the real question is - "what is good  enough?".
it's not like there are a lot  of husker football fans that would be impressed with golden gopher football.
it's not like there are a lot of husker football fans that would be impressed with golden gopher football.
then again, maybe it’s just that…hope.
i’m sensing a pattern here.
if you don't' support the team you're not going to sway the recruits you need to consistently have a winner.
2012 nfl mock draft ufc allen iverson nba power rankings nhl trade deadline ipad 3 rumors jon johnston husker mike jlew brian speers billgrip aaron musfeldt ricky smith andy ketterson cobby william grubb adamthetitan official partner of copyright © 2012 vox media, inc.
not too many programs fire their most successful coach in their program’s history, outside of a major scandal.
now at least the students look like they’re having fun crappy team or not.
our cobs are bigger than yours!
if you made it this far, you're probably wondering why i'm spending all this time talking about gopher football.
id add corn nation to my yahoo!
i’m not suggesting a particular plan of action, but i do think that if we’re still in a rut in 5 years, we’re probably going to stay there.
the power of red begins with the passion of walk-ons.