the college coach is definitely “in charge” and is the one with the knowledge and the game plan for the game.
the shark was axed after just 20 games.
opencalais - powered by thomson reuters
"all the way" by ro307805 on may 18, 2010 12:24 pm edt up reply actions that he wants an nba title more he is seeking to be an nba coach and that is obvious by alious on may 15, 2010 7:20 pm edt reply actions i believe that for most coaches, that’s how they see it.
maybe next year he’ll prove me wrong.
madison by wild weasel on may 15, 2010 2:28 pm edt reply actions
if it is, he’s not going anywhere.
after a disastrous first season, he did manage to reach the nba playoffs as a no. 8 seed in year two.
it was easy to say and even send tweets (if they would have had them then), because none of them seem to be interested.
now, to answer your question on which is better?
there are no ncaa  violations to worry about, no grades to manage, and virtually no job security  whatever.
most of these kids need more than one year of college to learn enough basketball knowledge to make it in the pros.
he went 38-44 in his first season with sacramento and then got off to a 6-18 start in his second season before getting the boot.
you do realize cal can make millions more in the nba, right?
and he’s good at selling what many of these kids are buying.
job security is better than the ncaa, but far from tenure.
westhead took another shot at the professional ranks, installing his run-and-gun offense in denver.
by rhinodawg on may 16, 2010 1:33 pm edt up reply actions
that might not have been in the cards before.
that's the chicago way..' by hozeking on may 17, 2010 11:51 am edt up reply actions …
that's the chicago way..' by hozeking on may 15, 2010 9:36 pm edt via mobile up reply actions
to think that the college ranks and arguably the best job in college basketball (and that’s not just the uk homer in me talking, either, rhinodawg says the same thing above : ))
cal promotes himself.
speaking of kentucky players and the washington wizards, john wall should help return the franchise to prominence: http://www.examiner.com/x-37753-dc-sports-examiner~y2010m5d18-lady-luck-washington-wizards-get-top-pick-in-nba-draft-lottery-chance-for-john-wall-of-kentucky .
a sea of blue -- kentucky sports for the discerning fan by glenn logan on may 17, 2010 7:32 am edt up reply actions that’s a good point, tru, and i think i would have to go with no on that.
i don’t follow pro basketball.
that's the chicago way..' by hozeking on may 16, 2010 8:05 pm edt via mobile up reply actions … once again, you have no idea what you are talking about.
by parisguy on may 16, 2010 9:27 pm edt up reply actions very good post paris guy.
i’m also pointing out the fact that the way he is doing things – promoting kentucky more as a gateway to the nba rather than as a “whole” university of kentucky experience that also includes potential nba benefits – is an indication of his value system.
still think cal wants multiple wins in both the ncaa and the nba.
lol by wildcatblue1930adolph on may 17, 2010 11:30 pm edt up reply actions a couple of our recruits this year….. i am the cat......
so much for refusing to lose.
as is the case with a lot of these coaches, the ability to turnaround a program is a big lure for nba gms, and in 2000 the washington wizards came calling.
you know, someone who doesn't think football is the warm up sport to basketball season.
i just don’t think uk is his final destination, and there’s no where else to aspire to in the college ranks.
how many of those coaches you mentioned ‘took the leap’ and found they or some one for them, found they didn’t fit?
that would be an interesting study for someone to do.
the nba also unquestionably has the best players,  since only the cream of the college crop ever make it in the association.
i have no idea as to the answers, but i will say this, timing is everything and things do change over time.
the nba coach has a much shorter season with many fewer games and less time on the road.
this is new to him, something he’s never done — coach a legendary program.
fans of college basketball tend to be less "fair weather"  and more likely to follow the team even in down years.
and i’m just now getting back to it.
on the contrary, that’s not what he’s selling.
popovich is certainly known to anyone  who has watched the nba in recent times, but hardly leaps to the tongue.
i dont think its over-rated at all.
of these, i would venture that only jackson, auerbach and  riley are actually household names.
by the way, i just complimented cal’s ability to get along with players.
if he valued uk and his job as his ultimate position, he would be more immersed in the entire college experience and his pitch would be more to that end.
of course, the big blue nation is now used to this, and instead of jumping into the breach and defending the kentucky coach from his detractors again, i am going to ask this question -- is winning an nba championship more impressive than winning an ncaa national championship?
i think they’re equal but judging by the way new yorkers treated patrick ewing, it’s as if they forgot he won a national championship in college.
said pitino afterward: "the university of kentucky is the roman empire, they are camelot, it was the biggest mistake of my life leaving lexington."
at best, his run in the nba would be seven or eight years, and even if he wins a couple of nba championships in that time, will he be remembered?
he redeemed himself slightly in 2003 by going 41-41 with the new orleans hornets – only to get fired at the end of the year despite making the playoffs.
it was there he perfected "the system" run by hank gathers and bo kimble which eventually led to the emotional elite eight run in 1990.
thank you for confirming my suspicion.
the ncaa championship has only been around since 1939, but  even so, that's 12 years longer than the nba championship.
his stop at golden state did not go as well – and that’s not even including being choked by latrell sprewell.
that's the chicago way..' by hozeking on may 16, 2010 8:12 pm edt via mobile up reply actions … he is unquestionably promoting kentucky as well, but i would generally agree that he is promoting himself first.
personally, it’s even.
natural talent of the kobe or labron kind is rare.
a sea of blue -- kentucky sports for the discerning fan by glenn logan on may 16, 2010 12:27 pm edt up reply actions
do you really think you’re making headway here?
very many nba coaches make less than cal does now.
i’m sure there are others.
just kidding about that last sentence!
i choose to believe him until he demonstrates otherwise.
cal does not know how to think small – i mean what other coach takes over an nit team and encourages his players to believe they can go undefeated before they ever play a game?
floyd’s arrival in chi-town was a recipe for disaster, replacing phil jackson and having a standoff with "his airness," who refused to play for floyd.
they are gonna make mistakes.”
once that happens, i believe he will consider nba options but not before.
again, all this is fine with us—it;s done in the service of making uk basketball better.
his best work, by far, has been done in college, and that’s where his heart seems to be.
i just happen to think that isn’t the case.
a sea of blue -- kentucky sports for the discerning fan by glenn logan on may 17, 2010 7:26 am edt up reply actions do actually expect that college coaches will tweet (that’s the preferred formal, un-deniably true means of communication, right), they want to coach in the pros?
i guess the answer doesn’t lie in so much as what we believe makes sense, but rather in what motivates calipari to to what he does.
the college coach is giving the “orders” and the team carries them out.
uk likely asked dan issel.
by definition, there are already enough people to do that.
that’s all i got, because the nba coaches don’t want to step down to college.
it was the washington bullets, not the baltimore bullets who won the nba title in ’78.
i think cal much prefers being “the man.”
he was fired after two seasons and a 44-120 record.
there are plenty of teams that would pay.
i mean my opinion is valid.
cal’s talent is all around getting along with players.
remember he talked about 10 wins at uk early on.
and bobby knight, the hated, seems to always draw an added comment.
if calipari went to the nba, it would likely only be for a situation that provided control over player personnel (i believe pitino had that deal) as well as a substantial raise.
i find such opinions entirely suspect to say the least, even  though i can't reasonably reject them completely.
and mr. buckner on his own admission “hated” the university of kentucky.
this is due largely to the single-elimination design of the ncaa tournament versus the series format of the nba.
finally, i don’t think calipari believes that coaching in the nba is more useful to his legacy than coaching in college.
as you stated, i don’t have a psychological insight into john calipari — nobody does!
the ncaa  tournament is also unquestionably more difficult for a given team to win, even  considering only the historically best teams.
he must constantly recruit replacements due to a high  turnover in addition to his coaching duties, and the most time he can ever get  out of a player is four years.
there is really no right or wrong answer, i suppose, but the reason it is worthy of discussion is that you would think it would figure into any decision calipari might have to make, depending on what the ultimate outcome of the summer of lebron is.
clair bee from 1931 to 1951, bee’s long island university squads won an unheard of 95 percent of their games and won two nits.
all you had to do is read my comment.
in all, he took the pirates to six ncaa tournaments and was named big east coach of the year twice.
my feeling is he values them about equally, but then again, who knows.
newsletter signup about us frequently asked questions terms of use privacy policy guiding principles advertise with us contact us certain photos copyright © 2012 by associated press or getty images.
paul westhead westhead is an interesting case because he had brief professional success with the lakers before landing at loyola marymount.
your mileage may vary.
on the other hand, if he wins 2 or more national championships at uk, he is a mortal lock for the hof.
by parisguy on may 15, 2010 2:16 pm edt reply actions ncaa and nba reversed by cpacat on may 15, 2010 2:26 pm edt reply actions corrections made.
he coached oklahoma city last season but was fired after a 1-12 start.
the height of his frustration culminated in an epic rant that included the classic, "larry bird is not walking through that door, fans" line.
however, coach cal is a competitor, and i still think he has some unfinished business in the nba, and he may feel that claiming an nba championship (the highest level in the world) authenticates his career.
by allblucat on may 17, 2010 12:27 pm edt up reply actions that’s a large part, if not the biggest part, of a nba’s coaches needed skill set oh, pleeeeeeeeeeassse.
he must constantly recruit replacements due to a high turnover in addition to his coaching duties, and the most time he can ever get out of a player is four years.
it’s a business to cal.
i think that cal wants to win at uk before he considers other options since uk gives him the best chance for an ncaa title or titles.
the team finished 35-47 and, sadly, no one got their money.
that’s a large part, if not the biggest part, of a nba’s coaches needed skill set.
so calipari left to save the moribund nets in 1996.
but that is an extraordinarily unlikely scenario.
if he feels like he can get the college championship easier than an nba he may look at his current nba opportunity as his best shot to check that off his list.
in the last two years, he reached the elite eight and final four (well, technically this final four appearance no longer exist).
college coaches must motivate, pro coaches must manage (but this line blurs more and more every year).
i’ll admit that i didn’t know he had been waiting for years to coach at a place like kentucky.
you have no point, only speculation.
despite scoring a league best 119.9 points a game, they gave up the most points in the league (130.8).
his remark came just before the tip-off of the championship game against syracuse in 1996.
the nba requires a coach to manage personalities more than anything else, as he is coaching mostly full-grown men making six and seven figure salaries per year.
that's the chicago way..' by hozeking on may 17, 2010 5:17 am edt via mobile up reply actions i don’t accept that at all, given what he has said.
playing with, we hope, intensity, and for the sake of winning.
reality is a beutiful thing.
players are selected, not recruited, you can get experienced players right away with no need for development, and holes can be filled in the cases of injury or need during the season.
i enjoy college sports were young men are striving to get to the next level.
pros only have to show up at practices and games, and keep the firearms out of their hands, as well as themselves out of places they dont belong.
in two seasons with the baltimore bullets, he went 32-107 and never coached an nba game again.
you’re 100% right about the fact that he won’t leave uk to coach an average team in a bad market for the sake of coaching in the nba.
cal has already begun working on that here at the college level.
the rift between the two only got bigger until mccombs canned tarkanian after a 9-11 start.
his public relations responsibilities in jobs like kentucky and north carolina are substantial.
by kentuckygirl0724 on may 17, 2010 10:07 am edt up reply actions i just think the legacy thing with most coaches is way over-rated.
college is a conduit to get to a job for all of us.
“since that’s his sales pitch, it only makes sense that’s his belief.”
he has been there, done that, got the t-shirt.
i saw someone posted many coaches in the nba don’t make what he is pulling down at kentucky.
you must buy a lot of useless products ; )
from 1991-2000, hamilton took miami to the big dance five times.
so maybe comparing the two, ncaa vs. nba is the classic “apples and oranges”.
he has to teach his charges everything from fundamentals to  the speed of the game.
they still exist, they are now the wizards.
a sea of blue -- kentucky sports for the discerning fan by glenn logan on may 15, 2010 3:39 pm edt up reply actions a team can be built.
i agree that his actions are not contrary to the love of the position; only to the position as his personal nirvana.
a sea of blue -- kentucky sports for the discerning fan by glenn logan on may 15, 2010 3:37 pm edt up reply actions benjamin franklin: beauty, like supreme dominion is but supported by opinion david hume: beauty in things exists merely in the mind which contemplates them.
after a good 16-14 record, the team exploded to 25-9 and a 2007 ncaa appearance in year two.
did all of those players that coach pitino had at uk just play there because they liked to see the bluegrass sway back and forth in the wind?
not necessarily a bad strategy.
can you really blame me for being dismissive of such an obvious logical disconnect?
it happened with larry brown, but brown is a gypsy that calipari is not, and has coached no less than 10 nba teams, almost 1/3 of the entire league at one time or another.
it appeared jinxed from the beginning when, despite the worst record in the league, the celtics didn’t win the lottery and the spurs got tim duncan instead.
funny, over the past few months i’ve learned more about him and have a different impression of him than i once did.
it’s a smart move considering he’s now royalty in the bluegrass state and went just 72-112 during his stint with the nets in the late ‘90s, ranking him among the top 10 biggest ncaa-to-nba coaching bombs of all time based on how far they fell short of expectations.
rick pitino what makes pitino the biggest bomb is the expectations that came with his arrival in boston.
http://www.gamerclips.net by kentuckyrules on may 15, 2010 2:50 pm edt reply actions … the money isn’t necessarily bigger in the nba.
question is not as easily “settled” as you might think.
according to quinn buckner, no dummy, the 1996 uk wildcats was the greatest team to ever take the floor in ncaa history.
i don’t believe that will happen for a number of reasons, not the least of which it has failed every time it has been tried when bringing a coach from the college ranks.
nba coaches who have won four titles or less  are known only to fans of the league and the fans of their respective programs.
it’s not shocking or scandalous or hurtful to fans to say “it’s a business to cal,” because, well, duh.
your mileage may  vary on this view.
fans of college basketball tend to be less "fair weather" and more likely to follow the team even in down years.
fans of the college sport, and even casual fans from other  sports would also recognize names like bill self, jim calhoun, jim boeheim,  lute olson, rick pitino and john calipari.
you never know what he might be thinking, but i consider that quite unlikely.
that's the chicago way..' by hozeking on may 15, 2010 5:51 pm edt via mobile reply actions and a lot of the mundane things an ncaa coach has to do.
in the end, i see no practical difference between the value of winning an nba or ncaa championship as a coach.
a sea of blue -- kentucky sports for the discerning fan by glenn logan on may 17, 2010 7:29 am edt up reply actions
what the ncaa has going for it are arguably more passionate and dedicated fans.
i still insist that no matter what lebron does, absent kidnapping or blackmail, will convince calipari to leave this year.
most of the coaches who would “kill” to coach in the nba would also kill to coach at kentucky, north carolina, or ucla.
by hoboat33 on may 16, 2010 2:50 pm edt up reply actions by rhinodawg on may 16, 2010 4:33 pm edt up reply actions no way.
a sea of blue -- kentucky sports for the discerning fan by glenn logan on may 16, 2010 12:25 pm edt up reply actions
the nba coach as a lot less control.
then he goes pro with what he considers the best team with the best ownership at that time to win multiple nba crowns.
but his time with the celtics was an epic failure.
college basketball has been around much, much longer than the nba -- almost twice as long.
by jbt36 4 days ago 13 comments | 4 recs by greg alan edwards about 10 hours ago 7 comments by eagletdl 1 day ago 184 comments by thomas mario adams iii 2 days ago 3 comments by jleverenz 2 days ago 22 comments by wild weasel 2 days ago 5 comments by futureofhoops 3 days ago 4 comments | 1 recs by bigbluenation2 3 days ago 6 comments by greg alan edwards 4 days ago 5 comments by bbrady21 4 days ago 15 comments by ritomase 4 days ago 0 comments + new fanpost all fanposts > +25 updates more from sbnation.com >
for example would john wooden, adolf rupp or even bobboy (sic) knight have been successful in the pros?
by ukloyal on may 16, 2010 9:38 am edt reply actions maybe it’s not that calipari simply values an nba title more than an ncaa title.
is it a more worthy life goal  for a coach?
that’s the best you can do?
by parisguy on may 16, 2010 12:04 am edt reply actions of course, no pro team would offer him less than what he is currently making, so in all honesty, that’s not completely relevant.
a college business school selling its ability to get you to a fortune 500 company isn’t being disloyal to the school—they’re marketing the very skills that they give you, and their usefulness in the “real world.”
of course he’s all in in terms of commitment while he’s there.
the ncaa championship has only been around since 1939, but even so, that's 12 years longer than the nba championship.
well, to think that this is the end of the line for calipari and it’s all that he aspires for, and i’m not saying anyone here is totally behind that thinking, but to me that is a bit unrealistic.
we’re sure they were good though.
they got number 11 under that guy who was fired the next season and ucla had an investigation into something illegal.
people here in dc are giddy over the chance to get wall.
"there are more instances of the abridgment of the freedom of the people by gradual and silent encroachments of those in power than by violent and sudden usurpations."
he was expected to bring the celtics back to glory and was given total control of the team as coach, gm, ceo and president.
had to switch to business.
i say he stays at the college level simply because the gamble of becoming one of those coulda-been great coaches that goes out on a low is more than he is willing to take.
key players can be gone in as little as a season due to free agency or the whims of management.
four of the franchises have been renamed, and one championship  winner no longer exists (the baltimore bullets).
four of the franchises have been renamed, and one championship winner no longer exists (the baltimore bullets).
and the ones you mentioned.
there’s just so much more passion in the college game.
household name coaches in ncaa basketball for their work done on the floor include john wooden, adolph rupp, dean smith, mike krzyzewski and bobby knight (although knight is at least as well known for his antics as his victories).
you think that there are names lined up to go to the pros?
the nba season is much longer requiring many long trips to  faraway cities.
during the  history of the tournament, 35 teams out of the now 347 division i colleges  fielding teams (note:  this has changed substantially over the yeas) have  claimed championships.
which also shows that while football has the examples of coaches of major universities going to the pros, basketball has almost none.
you dont think it would matter to cal at all to one day be thought of in the esteem as coach adolph rupp?
it is not worth an intelligent man’s time to be in the majority.
college basketball  fans who think the nba game is less worthy would likely think the  negative.
the coach must manage his players in every detail from grades to rules compliance to media appearances to matters of discipline.
the ncaa is the ‘refuge’ of failed nba coaches…cal being an example.
cal (or any other coach, and let’s face it, they all do this) isn’t betraying a preference for the pro game by extolling his ability to get you there—because the pro game and the college game are mutually exclusive.
that's what you mean when you say you don't believe a person when they make an unequivocal statement like calipari did.
cal is playing pitino’s games concerning the nba.
'..when they bring a knife, you bring a gun...
id add a sea of blue to my yahoo!
but the only thing hamilton turned around were people’s lunches after a 19-63 record.
the college coach is the captain of the ship, so to speak, the team looks to them for guidance.
the same can be said of pitino.
i can't say for sure, but i would guess that there are substantially more casual nba fans worldwide than of college basketball.
you do realize money is king with cal, right?
by ukloyal on may 16, 2010 10:30 pm edt up reply actions by ukloyal on may 16, 2010 10:33 pm edt up reply actions quite right.
to think otherwise is somewhat foolish and kind of small-town.
many, many people disagree with me on that, though, and i can’t claim they are suffering from more cognitive dissonance than i. a sea of blue -- kentucky sports for the discerning fan by glenn logan on may 16, 2010 12:33 pm edt up reply actions
the answer, i suspect, is largely dependent upon where the person answering  the question's fanhood lies.
the answer, i suspect, is largely dependent upon where the person answering the question's fanhood lies.
i totally believe that is what cal wants at the end of the day.
said mccombs: "i have a hard time with my coach telling me three times a day, seven days a week that we can’t compete with top teams."
the player’s grades, albeit only one year, is another indicator that once the results are achieved (five into the nba)
by twocee on may 15, 2010 5:46 pm edt reply actions in the nba the coach just becomes another piece of the puzzle.
he has to teach his charges everything from fundamentals to the speed of the game.
i think that the concept of the one-and-done college player will do as much harm to the nba talent pool as it is to the ncaa talent pool.
on the other hand, what if he was presented with a reasonably clear path to an nba championship?
navigation: jump to content areas: screen name password remember forgot password?
i can’t recall one established nfl coach stepping down to college.
i would note that every one of them (except hultz, whom i don’t know) wound up in college.
while i do follow the nba a bit, i would consider myself a lukewarm nba fan and on the flipside i would consider myself a scalding hot college basketball fan, so i’m hardly going to be impartial when posed with the feature post question and i think, as others have stated, both arguments (either for college championship or nba title from a coaching standpoint) have their strong points.
by parisguy on may 15, 2010 2:34 pm edt reply actions
id add a sea of blue  to my yahoo!
during the history of the tournament, 35 teams out of the now 347 division i colleges fielding teams (note: this has changed substantially over the yeas) have claimed championships.
nobody can really answer your question.
there is more opportunity to win at the college level, imo.
by rhinodawg on may 15, 2010 11:34 pm edt reply actions i agree completely with everything before that.
during the  nearly 63 years of the nba championship series, there have been a total of 17  different teams winning the title.
coach cal is doing exactly what he should do as it pertains to his vision of the program, and he’s good at it.
yes – cal is known for the “let the players play their game” style of bball, but the key word there is “let.”
to answer the original question, naturally it’s just a matter of opinion and no one is right or wrong.
pitino had brought lexington its first national title in 18 years.
you’re right that calipari demonstrates astute business sense about the job—the work on branding, the marketing of his ability to get players to “the next level.”
by hoboat33 on may 16, 2010 8:56 pm edt up reply actions i guess there was a reason i didn’t get my engineering degree!!
you keep writing this ‘legacy’ thing.
we get the fact that the elite players don’t come from the hollers of kentucky where selling only kentucky’s fine history might be enough to ensure we get the best players and the best possible teams.
i don’t know where you come up with that.
kentucky has nothing to do with it.
same with sports coaches, right?
reggie theus theus coached just two seasons at new mexico state
timing is everything.
interestingly enough though larry brown is the exception and we all know how cal feels about larry.
administrators keep up with grades and problems at the high school level.
college basketball has been around much, much longer than the nba -- almost  twice as long.
currently, there are 30 nba  franchises, and of those 30, only 12 of the currently active franchises have  won championships under their original names (although six winners have changed  cities).
consider that many people acknowledge that nba players are not “coached,” but are simply managed.
that's the chicago way..' by hozeking on may 17, 2010 11:20 am edt up reply actions can ahrdly provide the legacy that kentucky can.
meaning, he puts more value on getting people through to the “next level” than he does on the broader scope of the college experience as a whole.
and i suppose a college coach would have to ask himself the question of — has he conquered all he set out to do and now feels the need to go and conquer the next step where there is more money to be made, where the fan bases are larger than in college basketball (and as big and far reaching a fan base that uk has, i would dare say that the historically great (celtics, lakers, etc) nba teams have a considerably greater amount of fans than uk) and are the larger markets that most of what i would consider to be the better nba jobs (that’s why they are the better nba jobs, because of the markets they are in, imo) and what they can offer appeal to him at that particular time in his life?
coaching in the nba is more an exercise in business  management than actual coaching, since the players are often employed more like  financial assets in a monopoly game.
this is due largely to the  single-elimination design of the ncaa tournament versus the series format of  the nba.
if not, his best chance at an ncaa title has to be with kentucky.
overall, though, i have a hard time with the default idea that an opportunity to coach lebron james to an nba title is so tempting that no college coach could turn down the opportunity.
by rhinodawg on may 16, 2010 5:06 pm edt up reply actions the most likely (in my mind) scenario is: cal wins 3 at uk and takes them to 10 ncaa titles overall to tie ucla (unless of course ucla sneaks in another).
the nba and ncaa also present distinctly different challenges to coaches.
fans of the college sport, and even casual fans from other sports would also recognize names like bill self, jim calhoun, jim boeheim, lute olson, rick pitino and john calipari.
the nba requires a coach to manage  personalities more than anything else, as he is coaching mostly full-grown men  making six and seven figure salaries per year.
job security is better than the ncaa, but  far from tenure.
to understand the actions is to understand the man, and you definitely have the upper hand there.
some coaches can change their mindset for the players they have to deal with, some cannot.
i think it as very similar….in many ways.
but i do take your point that what motivates calipari is really the issue.
he’s now part of the city’s big three, along with alexander ovechkin and stephen strasburg, all number one picks.
trivia – a couple of other wildcats played for the bullets – mel turpin and kenny sky walker.
cal doesnt seem to me to be the type to really enjoy that kind of thing.
a sea of blue -- kentucky sports for the discerning fan by glenn logan on may 15, 2010 6:10 pm edt up reply actions your less than a handful of examples does not make a case.
but the uk “branding”, etc, is just smart business.
first, i have to correct you.
and who says he isn’t tell the general manager’s with his statement about staying at kentucky “its time to but up the big bucks before i’m interested”?
oh yeah, his name was steve lavin who now works for espn.
betting on “sure things” in basketball is a sure road to ruin.
by that i mean, you are just trying to compare any remotely similar situations to prove a point, even using different sports.
people even referred to the team as the enver nuggets (as in no "d").
do you think sales piches always reveal the seller’s true and honest beliefs?
tru states (and i agree) that there is very little teaching of basketball in the nba.
by allblucat on may 18, 2010 8:48 am edt up reply actions "all the way" by ro307805 on may 18, 2010 12:28 pm edt up reply actions sainthood, knighthood, and world master by rhinodawg on may 16, 2010 11:01 pm edt up reply actions not necessarily in that order!!!!!!!!!!
spurrier, carroll, hultz, saban.
by jpbluekat on may 15, 2010 5:09 pm edt reply actions player choices in the nba are motivated by money as much, if not more, than the talent needs of the team.
that's the chicago way..' by hozeking on may 15, 2010 9:20 pm edt via mobile up reply actions i asked you to provide a list of college coaches from big schools that do want to coach in the nba.
uk probably begged pat riley.
the lesson here kids?
based on the amount of years cal envisions himself still coaching, it is far more likely that he will win enough (conference titles, final fours, championships, 30-win seasons, etc) to be considered one of the best coaches of all time in college rather than the nba.
there is really no right or wrong answer, i suppose, but the  reason it is worthy of discussion is that you would think it would figure into  any decision calipari might have to make, depending on what the ultimate  outcome of the summer of lebron is.
but theus’ magic only worked in college.
let him try saying something like that about a big nba superstar.
the rest is less important.
i don’t think we fans expect that uk basketball can ever mean quite the same thing to a coach, who comes from elsewhere, has worked for other programs and is paid to do the job, as it does to the fans, for whom kentucky fandom literally feels like a part of the genetic code.
back to the question, in this area, i’d say the reaction to the bullets winning the nba title and maryland winning the ncaa title in 2002 was about the same.
whatever, i’ll continue to keep ‘voicing’ my opinions without directly insulting others.
i don’t know about the stay in the nba for coaches being longer than the coaches at universities.
by ukloyal on may 16, 2010 5:27 pm edt up reply actions by uk1972 on may 16, 2010 8:35 pm edt up reply actions too bad the ncaa was such a timid little baby at the time; the number very well wouldn’t be that high.
marinate on that for a second.
but after coaching arguably the greatest college basketball team ever (ncaa violations be damned), the spurs gave him a shot in the pro ranks in 1992.
that works as long as cal is there.
the nba coach has a much shorter season with many fewer games and less time  on the road.
his public relations responsibilities in jobs like  kentucky and north carolina are substantial.  overall, even though he is  gone from his home town less, he is arguably away from the house even more.
at kansas state, florida and illinois, he made the ncaa tournament in 12 of those 14 years and reached the final four once.
it is not uncommon – i would think – for players on the team to make more money than the coach and in the sense of being “in charge” i really feel that the players in the nba are the ones running the show and coaches can become nothing more than a puppet in a suit on the sideline.
but he couldn’t carry the momentum, beginning the next season 3-17 before being canned.
the nba championship has officially been around since 1947, three years as the basketball association of america and the rest as the nba.
you can put it on the board....
that's the chicago way..' by hozeking on may 17, 2010 11:16 am edt up reply actions borrowed from the lost lettermetop 10 biggest ncaa-to-nba coaching bombs 105 diggs digg sharekentucky’s big blue nation can breath easy as john calipari just announced on twitter that he will be returning to lexington next season.
with one notable exception winning in both just hasn’t happened because of that.
:-) a sea of blue -- kentucky sports for the discerning fan by glenn logan on may 15, 2010 3:38 pm edt up reply actions wow… this is great news.
so i think as more and more kids go one-and-done due to inflated draft expectations, the nba talent itself will start to become watered down, as kids who simply need more coaching than the nba will provide won’t flourish.
which is better – an ncaa or nba title?
the nba and ncaa also present distinctly different challenges to  coaches.
n i have be correctly accused of having a 'football fetish'.
in the end, i see no practical difference between the value of winning an  nba or ncaa championship as a coach.
nba fans who are only casual fans of college  basketball would surely answer in the affirmative.
if he finds the prospect of an nba championship more appealing than becoming a college coaching legend, then i think he may well leave.
i would agree that the nba is probably thought of as a move up in ones basketball coaching career
a sea of blue -- kentucky sports for the discerning fan by glenn logan on may 16, 2010 12:26 pm edt up reply actions especially if it counters one’s position.
id sign in with facebook use openid openid remember don't have openid?sign up by glenn logan on may 15, 2010 1:17 pm edt in commentarytweet i have seen several people comment that john calipari's tweet that he will be at kentucky next year, now supplemented by thislexy audio where you can hear him say it in his own words, with his own voice, is essentially a deception.
he jumped to the nba in 1952 where his winning percentage wasn’t quite as good.
p.j. carlesimo carlesimo is responsible for making seton hall basketball, getting the program to its first ncaa tournament appearance in 1988 and finishing as national runners up in 1989.
:-) a sea of blue -- kentucky sports for the discerning fan by glenn logan on may 17, 2010 1:10 pm edt up reply actions there are many more that have gone to the pros and not vice versa.
currently, there are 30 nba franchises, and of those 30, only 12 of the currently active franchises have won championships under their original names (although six winners have changed cities).
and it is the only place that you cannot do that.
there is very little actual teaching of basketball done in the pros -- mostly just skills refinement for which the players are primarily responsible.
a sea of blue -- kentucky sports for the discerning fan by glenn logan on may 17, 2010 7:31 am edt up reply actions
i have be correctly accused of having a 'football fetish'.
you just need to open your mind to see others’ opinions.
the cat in the hat!!!
your mileage may vary on this view.
either basketball or football, the pros is where it’s at from a coaching standpoint.
by hoboat33 on may 17, 2010 10:39 am edt up reply actions it takes an entirely different set of skills to be successful in the pros than in college.
they say they will miss and also thank kentucky and the fans, not calipari.
his umass teams dominated the a-10, winning the conference regular season and tournament titles all five seasons.
and i would think trying to control a professional basketball player would be much harder that a football player.
by shootmeibleedblue on may 15, 2010 3:30 pm edt reply actions really good.
ones goals, desires, health, and a plethora of other things can change in an individual’s life resulting in a desire for career change.
lebron will, but not cal.
but no one expected floyd to go just 49-190 – the worst winning percentage of any coach with 200 games under his belt.
the nba also unquestionably has the best players, since only the cream of the college crop ever make it in the association.
coaching in the nba is more an exercise in business management than actual coaching, since the players are often employed more like financial assets in a monopoly game.
in the 40 seasons before hamilton came to the university of miami in 1991, the hurricanes reached the postseason four times.
he lost in the ncaa title game in ’75 to ucla and the loss still burns him, though he scored 34 points.
college coaches are – imo – much more important to the team than nba coaches.
it would not be the first time, or the last. :-)
that doesn’t prove that it can’t be done, of course, but the terrible history of college coaches moving to the nba will surely be a factor.
in all, carlesimo’s nba winning percentage is a paltry 41 percent.
by kentuckygirl0724 on may 17, 2010 11:40 am edt up reply actions i am the cat......
of these, i would venture that only jackson, auerbach and riley are actually household names.
his choice, if you believe the rumors, are between coaching a legendary college program (something he has aspired to for years — he could have gone to the nba any one of a dozen times while at memphis), or coaching one presumably legendary player — lebron james.
i’d also disagree with the idea that the nba has much more talented players.
lol by wildcatblue1930adolph on may 16, 2010 11:01 pm edt up reply actions is it really the next level of coaching?
there have been five nba coaches who have won four titles or more -- phil jackson (10), red auerbach (9), pat riley (5), ray kundla (5), and greg popovich (4).
by allblucat on may 15, 2010 6:00 pm edt up reply actions larry brown, rick pitino, tim floyd among others.
by rhinodawg on may 16, 2010 1:23 pm edt up reply actions he may not use the university experience to recruit but look at what the players say after they leave.
he would be more famous for winning multiple times at uk than for winning one in college and even two in the pros.
he doesn’t “bleed blue” in the sense that uk fans do.
by ukloyal on may 16, 2010 11:06 pm edt up reply actions
i do “personally” disagree with one point though.
that's the chicago way..' by hozeking on may 16, 2010 8:03 pm edt via mobile up reply actions … that you really have no idea what you’re talking about when you say: there are plenty of college coaches that would ‘kill’ for a chance to coach the big leagues.
i find such opinions entirely suspect to say the least, even though i can't reasonably reject them completely.
of course you never hear about the firing or the investigation.
the nba season is much longer requiring many long trips to faraway cities.
there have been five nba coaches who have won four titles or more -- phil  jackson (10), red auerbach (9), pat riley (5), ray kundla (5), and greg  popovich (4).
there are no ncaa violations to worry about, no grades to manage, and virtually no job security whatever.
is it a more worthy life goal for a coach?
tim floyd he was called "timothy the great" at iowa state after leading the cyclones to three ncaa tournaments and one basket away from the 1997 elite eight.
tweet  78 comments  |  0 recs  | do you like this story?
i don’t see ben howland, roy williams, or coach k clamoring to move on.
that's the chicago way..' by hozeking on may 17, 2010 5:22 am edt via mobile up reply actions a sea of blue -- kentucky sports for the discerning fan by glenn logan on may 17, 2010 7:36 am edt up reply actions i want cal to be the coach of the bulls…if that means he brings lebron.
he gets to stand up at press conferences and say things like, “they are still learning.
what the nba has going for it are larger team fan bases, more player name  recognition, more marketing and apparel tie-ins and even more media exposure as  an institution than the ncaa championship.
try to stick to bigger-name schools, so we can compare apples to apples.
in order to build the legacy i feel cal is looking for, he would have to win the nba championship virtually every year and we all know how likely that is.
that's the chicago way..' by hozeking on may 17, 2010 11:18 am edt up reply actions what coach does not want to be remembered long after their time on the sidelines has ended?
at the college level, cal is still “the man with the plan.”
i guess i would just say that it all depends on where a coach is in his professional career and what kind of drive does he have?
but then again i always resented wooden announcing his retirement (and my very unobjective opinion is that we would have won otherwise) the night before they played uk so i don’t want to give them that one!!!
if that’s the case, the decision isn’t whether or not he’ll jump to the nba – he will – but when.
i would, in fact, be inclined to  argue that the ncaa coach is more meritorious in terms of pure basketball  coaching, but others may rationally disagree.
but if you pit the uk job, arguably the best college basketball job in the country, against the best nba job in the country, my guess is cal chooses the latter.
what the nba has going for it are larger team fan bases, more player name recognition, more marketing and apparel tie-ins and even more media exposure as an institution than the ncaa championship.
but i believe that for coach cal, at some point it is.
nba coaches (unless they’re phil jackson) have almost no control over who they get as players.
but does that mean that he values the head coaching job at uk more than an nba job?
the nba championship has officially been around since 1947, three years as  the basketball association of america and the rest as the nba.
household name coaches in ncaa basketball for their work done on the floor  include john wooden, adolph rupp, dean smith, mike krzyzewski and bobby knight  (although knight is at least as well known for his antics as his  victories).
a sea of blue -- kentucky sports for the discerning fan by glenn logan on may 15, 2010 3:38 pm edt up reply actions by uk1972 on may 15, 2010 3:06 pm edt reply actions at least to me.
the ncaa tournament is also unquestionably more difficult for a given team to win, even considering only the historically best teams.
but as usual, your fallacy is one of generalization.
read more: john calipari, jim boeheim, lute olson, rick pitino, bill self,  jim calhuon, mike krzyzewski, bobby knight, john wooden, adolph rupp, lebron  james (f - mia), kentucky wildcats, north carolina tar heels, duke blue devils,  indiana hoosiers, kansas jayhawks, louisville cardinals, syracuse orange, ucla  bruins, connecticut huskies sign in with your yahoo!
im not saying that’s good or thats bad, i just think he likes himself out front way too much to be “overshadowed” as far as his contribution to the team and the success.
a sea of blue -- kentucky sports for the discerning fan by glenn logan on may 15, 2010 8:25 pm edt up reply actions you want me to prove a negative?
i still insist that no matter what lebron does, absent kidnapping or  blackmail, will convince calipari to leave this year.
nba fans who are only casual fans of college basketball would surely answer in the affirmative.
that's the chicago way..' by hozeking on may 15, 2010 7:38 pm edt via mobile up reply actions … how about you cite some examples then.
the coach must manage his players in every detail  from grades to rules compliance to media appearances to matters of  discipline.
as nba players get bigger and bigger, they control more and more about the team as a whole in many different ways.
of course he doesn’t “bleed blue” in the same way that we do.
carroll went this year to seattle.
overall, though, i have a  hard time with the default idea that an opportunity to coach lebron james to an  nba title is so tempting that no college coach could turn down the  opportunity.
a sea of blue -- kentucky sports for the discerning fan by glenn logan on may 17, 2010 7:35 am edt up reply actions
you also have key players for as long as you want to pay what they demand, no one and dones or graduating seniors to worry about.
by kentuckygirl0724 on may 17, 2010 10:09 am edt up reply actions i meant to comment on this feature post yesterday, but i had a million things going on
by jpbluekat on may 15, 2010 9:55 pm edt up reply actions there are plenty of college coaches that would ‘kill’ for a chance to coach the big leagues.
so confident, in fact, that as coach of the atlanta hawks in 2002, he guaranteed fans a $125 refund if the hawks didn’t reach the playoffs.
regardless, his actions validate my opinion that his sales pitch is based on his beliefs.
ray kundla, who lead the lakers (then in minneapolis) to 5 titles, is the answer to a trivia question.
and that’s not a knock on kentucky.
by wildcatblue1930adolph on may 16, 2010 10:53 pm edt up reply actions larry brown comes to mind as well.
you couldn’t find reality with both hands if it was attached to your backside.
as you commonly say….it’s all speculation.
and then there’s this: “to cal, it’s the nba.”
it appears john calipari took note.
i never meant to imply that.
are we to understand that individual should be counted in those victors when coaches like bob huggins and others wouldn’t gualify to be mentioned as quality coaches who might have choose to remain in the college game?
by kentuckygirl0724 on may 17, 2010 9:57 am edt up reply actions i believe your right.
more similar than not.
i don’t get this reading deep physological insight into people known only in a public sense, but even if you could…marketing nba dreams to elite h.s. basketball talent as a way to convince them to come to kentucky is not contradictory.
so who are they, exactly.
the man thinks big – i love it!!!
most coaches, just want to coach………in college you cannot do that.
i can't say for sure, but i  would guess that there are substantially more casual nba fans worldwide than of  college basketball.
fine by me, but that doesn’t necessarily lead to a loving relationship to the “program” as much as the “process” and “results”.
by glenn logan on may 15, 2010 1:17 pm edt in commentary tweet email print i have seen several people comment that john calipari's tweet that he will  be at kentucky next year, now supplemented by thislexy audio where you can hear  him say it in his own words, with his own voice, is essentially a  deception.
any commercial use or distribution without the express written consent of associated press and getty images is strictly prohibited.
i always said that i didn’t like long-legged, good looking blondes.
there was reason to believe he would succeed in bean town after a successful stint with the new york knicks.
2012 nfl mock draft ufc allen iverson nba power rankings nhl trade deadline ipad 3 rumors glenn logan bigskycat ken howlett jleverenz jc25 a2d2 alex scutchfield official partner of copyright © 2012 vox media, inc.
there is very little actual teaching of basketball done in the  pros -- mostly just skills refinement for which the players are primarily  responsible.
carlesimo made the jump to the nba in 1994 and went to the playoffs his first three seasons – but keep in mind this team was used to being at the top of the western conference with clyde drexler and co.
by bigskycat on may 16, 2010 3:20 pm edt reply actions
kruger didn’t even reach the end of the season before he was fired.
but speaking as a kentuckian…well, of course the college title, because there is no sport on earth more important and wonderful than college basketball. : ) by blue kentucky girl on may 16, 2010 9:05 am edt up reply actions is that they can look at a situation with fresh, unbiased eyes (at least in this case).
so it is with your question, so with that in mind i would suggest asking the only man who has won both: lawrence harvey brown — as far as i can tell he’s never compared the two.
it’s a job to coaches—we get it, it’s cool.
nba coaches who have won four titles or less are known only to fans of the league and the fans of their respective programs.
john calipari calipari’s final five season prior to jumping for the nba were just as impressive as rick pitino’s prior to his jump.
i’m not suggesting that he’s evil, or disloyal, doesn’t love his job, or isn’t doing what he feels is best.
unc begged george karl.
a sea of blue -- kentucky sports for the discerning fan by glenn logan on may 16, 2010 3:36 pm edt up reply actions if fame is indeed the motivating factor.
unfortunately we don’t have his stats during his tenure as head coach of the deering high school tornadoes in "hang time."
during the nearly 63 years of the nba championship series, there have been a total of 17 different teams winning the title.
overall, even though he is gone from his home town less, he is arguably away from the house even more.
i sure would have changed my tune back in the day, if one had asked me out.
lon kruger not counting his first head coaching gig, kruger was very successful in college.
you welcomed views in the post.
but he didn’t waste any time turning the program into a winner.
i want a brilliant salesman and business mind in the top spot of the program.
tweet 78 comments | 0 recs | read more: john calipari, jim boeheim, lute olson, rick pitino, bill self, jim calhuon, mike krzyzewski, bobby knight, john wooden, adolph rupp, lebron james (f - mia), kentucky wildcats, north carolina tar heels, duke blue devils, indiana hoosiers, kansas jayhawks, louisville cardinals, syracuse orange, ucla bruins, connecticut huskiessign in with your yahoo!
and what you have provided is less than nothing.
he never got out of the first round and was whacked after three seasons.
is an nba championship more desirable than an ncaa basketball title?
of course, the big blue nation is now used to this, and instead of jumping  into the breach and defending the kentucky coach from his detractors again, i  am going to ask this question -- is winning an nba championship more impressive  than winning an ncaa national championship?
ray kundla, who lead the lakers (then in minneapolis) to 5 titles, is the  answer to a trivia question.
his final six seasons saw two elite eight finishes, three final four appearances and a national championship.
wow…i have no idea what i am talking about.
but his mark on the game remains, as he’s responsible for the 1-3-1 zone defense, the three-second rule and the 24-second shot clock.
what the ncaa has going for it are arguably more passionate and dedicated  fans.
i see that several people have mentioned some things that i was going to say so i apologize if some of this is repetitive, but i really think this is an awesome topic (good job, tru : )) and especially with the nba playoffs being in full swing, i also think the timing is rather appropriate, as well.
that’s another question that is far more complicated, as i’ve outlined.
so your few examples do not make a case neither.
i would, in fact, be inclined to argue that the ncaa coach is more meritorious in terms of pure basketball coaching, but others may rationally disagree.
so it’s no surprise he was a confident man.
floyd was an abject failure in the nba and had nowhere else to go.
proves one thing though, that one can hate an opponent yet make an honest evaluation about them.
to cal, it’s the nba.
this is what i have done here.
that does make a big difference as to when he might leave, and adds something to the “if” argument as well.
by rhinodawg on may 16, 2010 1:41 pm edt up reply actions it’s fairly clear that the nba thing has been tried by cal.
he uses the interface between the nba and college for his own purposes, but if you take the fact that he has been waiting for years for a shot to coach at a place like kentucky, it makes no sense that he would want to leave anytime soon.
as great as phil jackson and red auerabach are/were, you still have to look at john wooden as the most famous coach of all time.
what tarkanian wanted more than the job, however, was a point guard, something owner red mccombs disagreed with.
college basketball fans who think the nba game is less worthy would likely think the negative.
since that’s his sales pitch, it only makes sense that’s his belief.
by rhinodawg on may 16, 2010 4:59 pm edt up reply actions you mean like the one lebron and co. were supposed to have this year?
he understands the business of basketball and he backs it up with his m.o.
a sea of blue -- kentucky sports for the discerning fan by glenn logan on may 16, 2010 3:33 pm edt up reply actions
finally, the wizards are going to trade gilbert arenas, sign lebron james, and calipari will come to washington.
by mikefrandsen on may 20, 2010 12:07 am edt reply actions community blog posts and discussion.
display: expanded collapsed i noticed all the coaches you listed, i believe have won a national championship.
there is a mindset for each level…..that is the most important thing to have.
jerry tarkanian looming ncaa investigations into his program at unlv essentially forced tarkanian out of his job with the runnin’ rebels.
my opinion not offensive.
popovich is certainly known to anyone who has watched the nba in recent times, but hardly leaps to the tongue.
but if a kid has only had limited (or no) college experience, where are they going to learn the type of basketball acumen that the pros demand?
he is much more likely to acheive that goal at the college level than in the nba just looking at the time he wants to remain coaching.
billy donovan backed out of an nba job after it was his.
he has got as much of a “sure thing” in that area as one could hope for right now.
he attracts the recruits that want to “advance” to the next level (nba) and provides the path through uk.
pitino walked out the door in 2001 and back to college basketball with his tail between his legs after a 102-146 record in four seasons in boston.
but you do have to back up your claim with something.
if true, i agree that to have waited so long for that situation and then up and leave a year or two later makes no sense.
in fact, former kentucky all american kevin grevey started on that bullets championship team: http://www.examiner.com/x-37753-dc-sports-examiner~y2010m5d10-part-1-former-washington-bullet-kevin-grevey-on-the-78-nba-title-season-kentucky-and-the-wizards http://www.examiner.com/x-37753-dc-sports-examiner~y2010m5d10-part-2-former-washington-bullet-kevin-grevey-on-the-78-nba-title-season-kentucky-and-the-wizards i should have asked him which he would rather have had, an ncaa title or an nba title.
that's what you mean when you say you don't believe a person  when they make an unequivocal statement like calipari did.
you said you know of “plenty.”
a sea of blue -- kentucky sports for the discerning fan by glenn logan on may 15, 2010 3:37 pm edt up reply actions