read more: kentucky wildcats
:-) a sea of blue -- kentucky sports for the discerning fan by glenn logan on nov 7, 2011 8:12 am est up reply actions being a uk football fan relates to being a woman in a man’s world.
assuming the $820 million figure reasonably reflects the university’s fair claim on the state’s bonding capacity, something i’m not willing to concede, anecdotal evidence suggests any bonding proposals by the university for uk athletics are not being warmly received in frankfort.
by greg alan edwards on nov 7, 2011 3:09 pm est up reply actions community blog posts and discussion.
for basketball, it would yield money immediately after a new arena was put into service.
will this make it harder for the athletics dept to do anything??
you will have to trust me on that.
but before you wax all polemic, consider that there are many  good causes requiring money that uk can borrow, and sports is understandably  not at the very top of the list.
the question in my mind is, how did we get here??
however, such an investment on the part of the uk would be costly.
so i was going to have to move anyway, by oldkentucky on nov 7, 2011 2:58 am est reply actions the fact that you were an out-of-state student means you were a profit center for the university.
they have to have the ability to borrow money, and that province is reserved to a board of trustees that is very reluctant to dole out the ability to borrow cash to athletics.
you can put it on the board....
kentucky is supposed to be an academic  institution first, and it looks to me like they are putting their money where  their mission is.
opencalais - powered by thomson reuters
we need to maximize our current situation first – we have to fill the stadium for games by raising the level of play and giving the fans a reason to go to the game and back the program with dollars.
but i honestly think expecting or asking for more than that is a losing proposition.
i knew that athletics dept gave money back to uk, but what i didn’t know was that we are theonly sec team to do so… but only at uk is athletics required to help fund the university at its own peril
by teamweaver on nov 7, 2011 5:57 am est up reply actions imo, the place to start is with this number… “in the decade of this ad’s tenure, the trustees received $820 million in bonding debt authority.”
the new boards and sound upgrades at least something.
by a2d2 on nov 7, 2011 8:57 am est up reply actions
uk football on the other hand can’t have a down year, or the fans go away again.
so far, no one seems to be willing to look farther than next weekdown the road.
add in concessions, parking and souvenirs and you easily get to $3 million dollars.
why would i you know.
i will point out, though, that “if we build it, they will come” is probably wishful thinking when it comes to football.
they’ll increase the money as needed to keep us “respectable” in the sec.
of course, it isn't the whole story, but the reality is that kentucky cannot fund major projects like a stadium renovation entirely out of private funds.
i think respectable to them will mean an occasional lower tier bowl appearance and a .500 record, with a couple of sec wins.
football would require a much more serious and ultimately uncertain effort.
that is a sizable chunk of change which seems to be an excellent investment in the future.
by eagletdl on nov 7, 2011 9:51 am est up reply actions there were voices, telling me right form wrong
on the one hand a new hospital, on the other a new football stadium.
maybe this would include inviting a texas, oklahoma, florida state and notre dame, with another two additional schools at a later date.
after all, the bottom line is raising more money for everything – football, basketball, field hockey, the university, the albert b. chandler and the like.
as matt said, this is a matter that deserves public discussion about where  the flagship university of the commonwealth should put its priorities.
in sum, it is a much longer-term roi on football compared to basketball, even though the numbers are much bigger in the end.
alabama and florida and tennessee football fans are like that — they will fill their stadiums regardless (especially since they probably know that if the team does really badly, they’ll get a new coach).
:-) blue... there is no other color to bleed !!!
suffice it to say that the football program has a lot of competition for the dollars it needs to upgrade facilities.
of course, it isn't the whole story, but the reality is that kentucky  cannot fund major projects like a stadium renovation entirely out of private  funds.
a sea of blue -- kentucky sports for the discerning fan by glenn logan on nov 7, 2011 8:00 am est up reply actions
" by hslex on nov 7, 2011 6:46 am est reply actions blue... there is no other color to bleed !!!
navigation: jump to content areas: screen name password remember forgot password?
i am inclined to agree with everything in here.
i also think a lot of people might owe him an apology.
no matter how good florida or sc or ut or really any of the other schools might be, the focus is always on uk.
the answer to why uk's football team is underfunded by glenn logan on nov 7, 2011 12:43 am est in kentucky wildcats football tweet email print there has been much debate on this blog and others about why kentucky  doesn't draw in the great recruits, great coaches, and produce football teams  that are competitive with the other schools in the sec.
by kansasukcat on nov 7, 2011 6:00 pm est up reply actions
the basketball program is the sacred cow at kentucky, and it will  get what it needs one way or the other.
while such a sum would be enough to build a new basketball arena or renovate commonwealth, it probably couldn’t do both and certainly couldn’t cover the full cost of building a new football stadium.
but it’s a discussion worth having, i think.
then again maybe not.
i don’t think that the organization will take that bet.
i woke up feeling blue this morning.
so, even if bonds could be used to finance these smaller projects, payments of interest and principal would cut directly into the funds available to distribute to the university.
honestly, i’ve looked and i can’t find a good figure for the actual revenue directly attributable to commonwealth stadium or rupp arena
we talk about randall probably a little too much.
they are decades ahead and making up that ground in any significant degree is probably too costly to consider.
by twocee on nov 7, 2011 2:00 pm est up reply actions
if we’re not filling the current stadium, don’t even think about building a new one – it makes no economic sense.
this ought to provide good fodder for discussion.
that would suggest it is in the university’s best interest to invest in developing the necessary facilities for uk athletics independent of what such an investment might mean for the competitive success of the football and basketball teams.
as you can well believe, there are no budget surpluses at uk and the administration has already built the funds coming from uk athletics into their long-term budget projections, probably into perpetuity.
war is god's way of teaching americans geography.
by greg alan edwards on nov 7, 2011 8:34 am est up reply actions if your wings don't sweep....
check out the sb  nation youtube channel!
a sea of blue -- kentucky sports for the discerning fan by glenn logan on nov 7, 2011 8:11 am est up reply actions that greg linked to yesterday?
by a2d2 on nov 7, 2011 7:51 am est up reply actions a sea of blue -- kentucky sports for the discerning fan by glenn logan on nov 7, 2011 7:59 am est up reply actions
mitch tries hard, i am positive, he really is a football guy.
it would be the university or non-revenue sports that would shoulder the cuts to finance any new construction.
they have to have the ability to borrow money, and that province  is reserved to a board of trustees that is very reluctant to dole out the  ability to borrow cash to athletics.
- george orwell by wild weasel on nov 7, 2011 11:33 am est reply actions that uk would be left out.
some would think that a reasonable burden for them to bear and i would be one of those, but other constituencies would disagree.
i fully expect the idea of “super conferences” to evolve into an actuality — most likely when the economy has returned to something near normal — and i don’t think it’s an impossibility that uk would be left out of such groups if it doesn’t have a similar evolution of its football program to match the standards of funding, facilities, etc.
confirmation of what should have been obvious: uk made its choice in middle of last century and will have to live with the consequences.
it is a revealing, almost  exposé-like look into many of the ins and outs of who gets money and  why.
if your wings don't sweep....
metaphorically speaking, of course…..;-) i am now and shall forever be the cat in the hat, the artist formerly known as abc!!!
videooriginal programming.
in addition to the political climate in frankfort, this tradeoff reflects the priorities of the board of trustees and their willingness to champion the university’s funding proposals.
blue... there is no other color to bleed !!!
even when we have a bad year (for us anyway), the national focus is “what has happened to kentucky?”
i am away at a funeral, so i didn’t see it earlier.
doubt the power of money?
even though the new facilities would be expected to support the cost of their own bond service once built, the initial cost of bonds during the 2 – 3 years of construction and any startup phase would have to be paid by the university.
a combination arena/stadium might be the only way to get football facilities upgraded.
what if alabama, lsu, auburn, taam, florida, georgia, arkansas and tennesee (?) were to decide that their fortunes lied elsewhere under a different structure, forming a super-conference.
and i think you would have to assume that at current ticket prices, as i don’t know that improved play could justify higher prices among the current fanbase.
many of us have lamented kentucky's apparent lack of support for the football program, and pointed the finger mostly at the athletics department.
more money and bonding capacity would have to be found.
i encourage each and every one of you who have wondered about what structural problems hold back uk from creating the kinds of programs we see everywhere around the sec to read matt's post and the herald-leader article.
if it was just a matter of health care needs always trumping college sports entertainment, how could arkansas be so morally corrupt as to spend $300 million to expand their athletic facilities?
but, tucked away in that huge cost center that is uk, you find that uk athletics is a ‘profit center,’ not only paying its own way but actually throwing off $20 million in diverted revenue to the university.
by a2d2 on nov 7, 2011 7:35 am est reply actions
display: expanded collapsed bring good students.
by greg alan edwards on nov 7, 2011 8:31 am est reply actions
but that too would be a choice.
a sea of blue -- kentucky sports for the discerning fan by glenn logan on nov 7, 2011 8:53 am est up reply actions big time
kentucky is supposed to be an academic institution first, and it looks to me like they are putting their money where their mission is.
for football to make more moolah than basketball and get a lot less payback.
similar estimates, but even more lucrative, suggest a new basketball arena modeled on the nba archetype could be expected toquadruple the revenue of rupp.
the flip side to that is that the potential cash cow that is the athletics department, and in particular, the football program, is getting starved for money.
kentucky was one of about fifteen of them.
what kind of tv contract would that demand for these schools – nothing.
by greg alan edwards on nov 7, 2011 9:24 am est up reply actions earlier response to gae: appreciate link, good read, new perspective.
i can only say it’s disappointing and even a bit amazing that we find ourselves in this position.
many of us have  lamented kentucky's apparent lack of support for the football program, and  pointed the finger mostly at the athletics department.
suffice it to say that the football program has a lot of competition  for the dollars it needs to upgrade facilities.
but football is not, and the  reason is that the uk athletics administration cannot borrow money independent  of the university.
i only had a few schools that taught my subject.
rupp is filled for exhibition games!
i chose kentucky because i followed the basketball program.
on the other hand, bonding capacity can be found for the new university of kentucky albert b. chandler hospital.
"man i don't want to talk about guys (moss) who left us, you know.
granted, if you spend the money you’re not guaranteeing the program will “rise”; however, if you don’t the opposite is just as likely.
any bonds sold to finance the construction of new facilities would have to be amortized over the term of the bonds – interest and principal.
it may be that is the main factor holding football back.
i totally agree with glenn in that we cannot simply build a new stadium with the “build it and they will come” rationale.
interest rates are low but so are state revenues.
further, anecdotal estimates suggest that a new football stadium could expect todouble the revenue currently earned by commonwealth stadium.
we (these schools) would be begging almost any conference for admittance.
by kywineman on nov 7, 2011 11:48 am est up reply actions as ww points out addressing mega super-confernces.
as matt said, this is a matter that deserves public discussion about where the flagship university of the commonwealth should put its priorities.
to obtain a roi, someone must be first interested in making the investment.
arizona had no school that tought my subject
i am now and shall forever be the cat in the hat, the artist formerly known as abc!!!
- ambrose bierce by hoboat33 on nov 7, 2011 1:05 pm est reply actions you are still asking an organization that historically thinks of football as an afterthought to throw dollars after an assumed roi.
2012 nfl mock draft ufc ncaa tournament 2012 schedule nba trade rumors daytona 500 2012 nfl draft 2012 glenn logan bigskycat ken howlett jleverenz jc25 a2d2 alex scutchfield copyright © 2012 vox media, inc.
i simply don’t see the economics working to convince the trustees to put more money into football.
at first glance, even for the rabid fans of the bbn, the choice seems reasonably straight forward.
id add a sea of blue to my yahoo!
if they are going to sink more money into athletics, it’s going to be into basketball, where there is a virtual guaranteed roi.
i do expect that sports economics (read: football becoming the overriding factor in reorganization) will eventually force the university to rethink its priorities.
thus they would join other basketball-first schools such as duke, indiana, kansas, memphis, vanderbilt, villanova, perhaps even uconn and syracuse, and those that do not field fb teams: georgetown, st. john’s, et al.
regardless of the method of funding projects can’t we just simplify it to economic justification and roi?
the rupp situation will be fixed, the commonwealth situation will not.
at an average ticket price of, say, $40 that comes to $2.4 million dollars.
not, look at how great florida is.
by dan harris about 24 hours ago 45 comments | 3 recs by dan harris 7 days ago 98 comments | 4 recs by dan harris 14 days ago 37 comments | 6 recs by jleverenz about 18 hours ago 3 comments by greg alan edwards 3 days ago 4 comments by greg alan edwards 4 days ago 13 comments by greg alan edwards 4 days ago 60 comments by sam henson 4 days ago 11 comments by jeffy 6 days ago 9 comments by wild weasel 6 days ago 3 comments by jleverenz 6 days ago 15 comments by greg alan edwards 7 days ago 9 comments + new fanpost all fanposts > +7 updates more from sbnation.com >
you assume that putting more money into recruiting and more money into facilities that are not a stadium will improve the level of play enough to fill commonwealth stadium game after game.
those schools will throw money at their football programs because the fans make it a priority, and because, like uk basketball, it’s a virtual guaranteed money-maker.
that elevated level of play and increased interest in the football program has a tremendous impact on the economics.
- ambrose bierce by hoboat33 on nov 7, 2011 2:43 pm est up reply actions has connotations far reaching beyond today’s money, today’s players, and today’s fans.
exciting sports coverage.
matt jones at ksr highlighted an important piece at the herald-leader, where a uk trustee explains in detail most of the reasons uk doesn't spend the cash to upgrade the facilities to sec level.
id sign in with facebook use openid openid remember don't have openid?sign up by glenn logan on nov 7, 2011 12:43 am est in kentucky wildcats
if basketball wants a new arena, they will eventually get one, and we both know this.
that number is based on the released attendance figures which tend to be inflated.
the basketball program is the sacred cow at kentucky, and it will get what it needs one way or the other.
the simple thing is this: this can be changed.
" "in times of universal deceit, telling the truth will be a revolutionary act."
tweet 24 comments | 0 recs | read more: kentucky wildcatssign in with your yahoo!
i am sure he has begged and begged for more leash to spend more on football.
tweet  24 comments  |  0 recs  | do you like this story?
uk football would still be an afterthought in the national media.
plus, building a team in the sec to the level that would fully leverage a new or substantially upgraded stadium is a dicey proposition at best – the competition is not going to just sit back and say, “look, kentucky’s trying to compete in football, too.
but i’m willing to bet doubling and quadrupling it is a big number with a similar impact on the amount contributed by uk athletics to the university.
the university of kentucky is a service center of the commonwealth and in real terms that mean’s
on one hand it assumes filling the stadium for each game on the rosy assumption but it also doesn’t take into account higher seat prices justified with a better product, increases in the blue white fund requirements, increases in alumni donations to the school and all of the incremental boost in revenue that comes with a successful program and the positive national press that derives from success.
the other question is, what if they do spend this money?
at current tax free bond yields, the $20 million currently diverted to the university could be expected to support approximately $570 million in 30-year bonds.
simplistically, if you had $3 million dollars extra a year you could afford $30 million dollars of expense and have 10% return on your investment and these days 10% looks pretty damn good.
yes, basketball is king at uk but i and a few others will always be the squeaky wheels.
matt jones at ksr highlighted an important piece at the herald-leader,  where a uk trustee explains in detail most of the reasons uk doesn't spend the  cash to upgrade the facilities to sec level.
and this article sounds ominous… hat tip to teamweaver is this post.
i encourage each and every one of you who have wondered about what  structural problems hold back uk from creating the kinds of programs we see  everywhere around the sec to read matt's post and the herald-leader  article.
any commercial use or distribution without the express written consent of associated press and getty images is strictly prohibited.
they could just walk away from the sec couldn’t they – what’s to stop them – loyalty, that’s a joke when it comes to greed and power.
a conference full of great teams cannibalizes itself in football.
reality suggests the university’s bonding needs are limited by the competing requirements of the various political constituencies under the commonwealth’s umbrella debt service capacity.
i would simply like to see more spent on football recruiting and football player facilities; not necessarily to be equal with the top sec programs like florida and alabama but several levels above our current state.
but, imo, that would be a short sighted perspective.
this is simple economics, you have to spend money to make money and this is a very basic look.
newsletter signup about us frequently asked questions terms of use privacy policy guiding principles advertise with us contact us certain photos copyright © 2012 by associated press or getty images.
note the words of edward dahlberg: "there is a strange and mighty race of people called the americans who are rapidly becoming the coldest in the world because of this cruel, man-eating idol, lucre.
it is a revealing, almost exposé-like look into many of the ins and outs of who gets money and why.
that answer might not necessarily mean more money to athletics.
football would take at least five years to take hold after construction, just because watching a relatively uncompetitive team, even from new seats, won’t materially increase revenue.
lexington, the city, will make it happen.
now if a playoff system were instituted then we might have to upgrade or be replaced but even then i am not sure.
more butts in the seats means increases gate revenue, parking revenue, concessions, jerseys, donations to athletics and donations to the general fund.
but you know what they say about life and fairness.
footballtweet there has been much debate on this blog and others about why kentucky doesn't draw in the great recruits, great coaches, and produce football teams that are competitive with the other schools in the sec.
and no matter what the team did last year, rupp is filled to the brim.
can we not just make sure the trustees holding the purse strings take some economic and investment style decisions?
however, attracting more in-state students actually expands the tuition/cost deficit that state funding has to fill and more students in general further increases the demand pressure on the commonwealth’s limited bonding capacity to expand dorms, classrooms, etc. – accentuating the funding problem for uk athletics.
i think about the difference between uk basketball and the rest of the sec.
this was a great comment, tw, worthy of a front-paged fanpost.
why are we the only sec organization to do this, and again referencing the article, why do we not get funded out of the general fund??
having discussed the big ticket items above, a large number of the projects kentucky athletics would like to build would be much smaller and, although geared toward improving recruiting or the competitive success of our various teams, they wouldn’t be expected to materially bring more money into uk athletics.
it's gonna be a great day.
just taking this years attendance figures we’ve left about 60000 seats empty for the six games held at commonwealth and we still have another home game on the schedule.
but before you wax all polemic, consider that there are many good causes requiring money that uk can borrow, and sports is understandably not at the very top of the list.
imo this could happen and the sec be left with the remaining schools who are the perennial cellar dwellers.
the flip side to that is that the potential cash cow that is the athletics  department, and in particular, the football program, is getting starved for  money.
i was living in arizona at the time.
if i had listened, i wouldn’t be here today, living and dying, with the choices i made i guess we now know how things really are in a lot of ways.
by teamweaver on nov 7, 2011 5:28 am est reply actions 2 recs … and a very lucid argument.
a man is nothing more than a summation of his scars!
by eagletdl on nov 7, 2011 8:08 am est reply actions that louisville makes than uk makes, i am gonna unload on them.
but football is not, and the reason is that the uk athletics administration cannot borrow money independent of the university.
that $820 million number is set by the state legislature.