by oldkentucky on dec 7, 2010 4:13 pm est reply actions … that would certainly make us happy.
if you could cross the lines of sport, you would think that mattered.
i suppose kanter could argue they sent him the wrong manual to follow (lol).
we don't  really know, so that's why a discussion of this case is so very difficult other  than in the abstract.
there is no substantive difference between earning money in the united  states as an amateur and earning money in europe as an amateur.
it’s very similar to how it used to be when i was in boot camp — when one dirtbag messed up, we all paid the price.
but that seems a minor thing to me, which is now corrected.
why they changed it i can’t say people just liked it better that way by strangeite on dec 7, 2010 1:56 pm est reply actions a sea of blue -- kentucky sports for the discerning fan by glenn logan on dec 7, 2010 1:58 pm est up reply actions looks like we have a they might be giants fan.
by greg alan edwards on dec 8, 2010 7:57 am est up reply actions if they were in charge of animal rescue all the cages would be empty but their spending on euthanasia materials would be sky-rocketing.
but uk fans have latched onto this idea that diverting impermissible benefits to education is a mitigating factor.
nobody said they were perfect, least of all me.
by wheatgerm on dec 7, 2010 3:59 pm est up reply actions
i am saying that, seeing as how the rules about foreign basketball players with professional backgrounds are clearly in flux, that uk might want to at least raise the question as to why, exactly, there needs to be a double-standard between sports that are controlled by the same governing body?
its common at almost every large school, in every major conference (and women’s teams generally follow suit).
i think your final paragraph in the matter is a better argument: they simply didn’t have sufficient knowledge of the rules and shouldn’t have been expected to be able to follow them as well as someone like newton.
a sea of blue -- kentucky sports for the discerning fan by glenn logan on dec 7, 2010 9:17 pm est up reply actions no. tons of college tennis players have atp ratings.
playing the cats gives you an uneasy feeling..like looking in your rear view mirror and seeing a police car..
it's gonna be a great day.
by uk1972 on nov 18, 2010 2:05 pm est reply actions it was buzz on the radio too, apparently.
if the original article was maggard, i doubt i’ll put much faith in it.
and all of this is a-ok with the ncaa.
their member institutions are their “clients,” and that’s who they have to please.
perhaps it is like the john wall situation last year wherein sandy bell had counseled him to keep some of his pell grant money available in the event he had to repay the benefits that he had received from the cliftons.
this guy makes the point that athletes at schools banned from post season play are being punished for the actions of others that they knew nothing about, the very reason the ncaa gives for allowing cam to play on.
rule 12.1.2.1.3.2.2 from the 2008-09 division ii manual states: an individual may receive educational expenses awarded by a professional team or league, in accordance with the applicable conditions set forth in bylaw 15.2.5.6.
i appreciate everyone’s optimism and looking for the future, but we should be asking about when we are going to hang #9 this year and not #8.
a sea of blue -- kentucky sports for the discerning fan by glenn logan on dec 8, 2010 1:14 pm est up reply actions
its very easy for foreign-born tennis players with professional experience to be eligible for d1 tennis, but its still exceptionally difficult for foreign-born basketball players with any professional experience to do so.
kentucky basketball: the possible form of the enes kanter appeal by glenn logan on dec 7, 2010 11:17 am est in commentary tweet email print kentucky has the reputation, rightfully earned in my mind, as the most  storied basketball program in the nation.
get our bigs in foul trouble and the rest will fall into place.
unfortunately, as eric crawford of the courier-journal wrote recently, it is hard to know what ball to keep our eyes on.
the provision was adopted on 4/25/02, made effective 8/1/02 and only slightly revised to its present form on 1/14/08.
and this is a couple times i’ve seen where you written that the ncaa has recommended the appeals committee overrule their initial decision.
he keeps a lot of dictionary windows open on this site.
a sea of blue -- kentucky sports for the discerning fan by glenn logan on dec 7, 2010 5:07 pm est up reply actions
they were changed just this past offseason regarding foreign-born players participating in professional leagues, and have really yet to be clarified in any meaningful manner.
fun to think about it.
any scenario that includes having enes in a uk uniform, i vote for.. ..
by a2d2 on dec 8, 2010 9:38 am est up reply actions
by dshnarw on dec 7, 2010 1:09 pm est up reply actions by dshnarw on dec 7, 2010 1:10 pm est up reply actions by clint phelps on dec 7, 2010 1:11 pm est up reply actions
a sea of blue -- kentucky sports for the discerning fan by glenn logan on dec 7, 2010 1:48 pm est up reply actions
as anecdotal  evidence of how this might work, i recall in my youth having a paper route, the  proceeds of which were to be applied to my college education.
his “fame” in college football could certainly have influenced his endorsement deals (especially with sales in and around colorado u), thus he’d be making money not only off of skiing, but off of college football.
i don’t think they are anywhere near a rebellion that in any way threatens their current status but if they lose enough credibility who knows?
i’ve said it a number of times on this site already: i would not be surprised if the ncaa is trying to avoid setting the precedent for this case themselves by forcing uk to go through the appeals process.
a sea of blue -- kentucky sports for the discerning fan by glenn logan on dec 7, 2010 5:13 pm est up reply actions that the committee takes the professionalism issue very seriously.
, the ncaa told the appeal committee they were planning on changing the rules for future cases and they could consider that in their decision.
btw, thank for knowing who the guy was or researching it.
i would always rather be feared and hated than pitied.
i think it is much too presumptuous to think it was ours to lose.
no matter how much kanter actually received, its a fact that the amount was clearly millions of dollars less than what he could have received.
by kywineman on dec 8, 2010 8:28 am est up reply actions … that is also available to athletes, n’est ce pas?
sponsoring go up dramatically around the colorado u campus because of his football fame?
there is one key distinction between the two circumstances though, in boot camp there was opportunity for one’s peers to “influence” the actions of the offenders.
a sea of blue -- kentucky sports for the discerning fan by glenn logan on dec 7, 2010 7:08 pm est up reply actions same rules might apply, but the actual result is dramatically different.
that's what  we'll attempt to do here.
the difficulty in allowing endorsements is that they are created from a person’s fame.
a sea of blue -- kentucky sports for the discerning fan by glenn logan on dec 7, 2010 1:57 pm est up reply actions
he knew the cook out at pearl’s was a violation, because pearl told him and his parents, and he went any way.
i am not sure the newton ruling of eligible will always remain that way.
he could not have  signed a contract due to fiba age requirements for most of his tenure with  fenerbahçe ülker, and when he was offered a contract to play,  apparently turned it down.
but neither team nor individual were allowed to accept money before this year, even expenses.
12.1.2.1.3.1.2 educational expenses—professional team or league.
i’ve read that selby is paying the money back from his scholarship.
alabama has 5 players born outside the us.
we are all about amateur athletics.
the student-athlete is not receiving any remuneration from a professional sports organization; © the student-athlete does not have an active contractual relationship with any professional athletics team, although the student-athlete may remain bound by an option clause (i.e., a clause in the contract that requires assignment to a particular team, if the student-athlete’s professional athletics career is resumed); (d) disbursement of the aid shall be through the member institution for the recipient’s educational expenses while attending that institution; (e) the value of the award alone or in combination with other aid per bylaw 15.1.1 shall not exceed the value of a full grant-in-aid; and (f )
the rules might be more equivalent now, but they weren’t until very recently.
by scottwalls on dec 8, 2010 2:05 am est up reply actions harrellson has played 162 minutes this year.
that’s not a defense of the ncaa, they are perfectly capable of an irrational decision — as are we all.
seems like a reasonable resolution in my mind (albeit, not one we particularly like).
i realize that the ncaa is a bunch of college presidents who run an allegedly non-profit ……(pause as i try to catch my breath from laughing so hard), allegedly amateur organization, that rakes in billions of dollars through running highly professionalized, quasi-amateur football and basketball programs, under the auspices of institutions allegedly devoted to higher education.
by uktimmy on dec 8, 2010 2:21 pm est up reply actions
newsletter signup about us frequently asked questions terms of use privacy policy guiding principles advertise with us contact us certain photos copyright © 2012 by associated press or getty images.
the baseball rule immediately comes to mind, but there are many other exceptions.
they certainly have a leg to stand on when declaring kanter ineligible.
in other words, $11,000 may not be too much from a shoe company, but $500 might be too much from a professional team directly.
(i cannot remember where or i would link it).
and as for kanter playing, what does that matter?
by a2d2 on dec 8, 2010 2:49 pm est up reply actions maybe i’ll snoop around while i watch the uk game for the original article.
15.2.5.6 educational expenses—professional team or league.
a sea of blue -- kentucky sports for the discerning fan by glenn logan on dec 7, 2010 5:16 pm est up reply actions that calipari did not spend a scolarship or place on the team for another big man.
they are a farce, and they’ve made themselves into that.
enes kanter has alternatively become a rallying cry and a cautionary tale.
if young kanter did not really know how much money he  was receiving as far as necessary and actual expenses were concerned, he could  have reasonably believed that he and his family were acting fully within the  ncaa bylaws.
basketball players are allowed participation with professional teams as long as they don’t accept money in excess of reasonable and necessary expenses, just like tennis players.
i am not asking for cal’s head or anything, and i do believe he will win one in the next few years.
by scottwalls on dec 7, 2010 2:16 pm est reply actions unfortunately, the ncaa will not look at it that way.
$33,000 may not sound like that much, but compared to sidney and selby, it is several orders of magnitude times greater.
that is my opinion and i’m sticking to it…!
take a look at the rosters of the men’s tennis teams in the sec.
i started to say, “an order of magnitude,” then decided to change it to “several times.”
it is not, as i’ve just explained above.
i can easily see the ncaa ruling that kanter’s parents, as legal guardians at the time, were an extension of enes because they had legal authority to do things in his name.
as far as money goes, we know that $11,000 or so is not too much, but we know that only in the context of us players.
that is, however, decidely inconsequential to my premise.
lot of factors in that.
by uktimmy on dec 8, 2010 5:20 am est up reply actions is not the same as a fans definition.
the money will have been made, auburn will have gambled and lost and the ncaa rolls on.
and when those same people allow foreign pros in one sport, but not another, it only makes them look more hypocritical.
we are in a great place for 2011.
you can even find it at lower levels of ncaa play, where you have certain d2 schools that specialize in loading up on foreign-born players.
but these matters don’t involve logic… /sarcasm by clint phelps on dec 7, 2010 1:11 pm est up reply actions it does not have to be repaid, a sea of blue -- kentucky sports for the discerning fan by glenn logan on dec 7, 2010 2:00 pm est up reply actions he wants enes freed too!!!!
my thing is this — don’t make claims, make arguments.
hood saw about as many minutes last year, and polson is getting in before poole these days.
“a bird in the hand is better than 2 in the bush”.
the possibility of ncaa punishment is part and parcel of the college athletics experience.
on what basis? was it that he took too much money, or more the fact of where the money came from, or both?
i see that your charge of hypocrisy is not really accurate.
by uklvrbm on dec 8, 2010 12:52 pm est up reply actions this espn piece provides a bit of insight into the process (excerpt):
hold the ball and keep it close.
but you are right, the ncaa probably won’t look at it this way.
ehh, not so much” same organization/governing body, same stated mission for all sports, totally random and different standards for different sports?
kanter is coming from a large, well-known organization that is actively working against his desire to play college basketball.
by dshnarw on dec 7, 2010 5:04 pm est up reply actions the source thing is almost surely one of the issues.
based on the facts we know, this does look very bad.
"all the way" by ro307805 on dec 9, 2010 6:00 pm est up reply actions give a name.
a sea of blue -- kentucky sports for the discerning fan by glenn logan on dec 8, 2010 6:58 am est up reply actions can’t believe we are this many comments in and no one has pointed out the irony of your aforementioned “byzantine complexity” and the fact that kanter is from turkey, in which constantinople (modern day istanbul) was the seat of the byzantine empire!
by bcinva on dec 7, 2010 1:00 pm est up reply actions i received ~1500/semester in excess of actual educational costs when i was on an educational scholarship (beyond food/board/books/course fees).
that’s just reality.
:-) a sea of blue -- kentucky sports for the discerning fan by glenn logan on dec 8, 2010 7:30 am est up reply actions there are punishments that would be fair to the athletes.
yes we may loose a few guys that don’t play but our core experienced players will be ready to roll.
a sea of blue -- kentucky sports for the discerning fan by glenn logan on dec 7, 2010 1:45 pm est up reply actions my point, though, is that the ncaa doesn’t care.
the fundamental basis of the newton ruling was ignorance on the part of  cam, and just as importantly, auburn, about the activities of cam's father,  cecil newton.
maybe you can track it down if you have time.
these decisions have been almost universally based on the idea that it was never the student athlete's intent to "professionalize" himself.
sidney sat out a year for lying, the prescribed penalty for unethical conduct.
by kywineman on dec 7, 2010 6:45 pm est up reply actions the fans, or the member schools?
by kywineman on dec 7, 2010 8:08 pm est up reply actions i am now and forever shall be the cat in the hat....
i blew the “orders of magnitude” thing between edits.
as we saw in the rose case and many others, they are willing to take a ton of heat over their decisions with not so much as a “by your leave.”
by wheatgerm on dec 8, 2010 3:16 am est up reply actions same # of ft as a dead guy.
nike has regularly sponsored skiers as part of nike 6.0.
if they rule enes ineligible after all the review process and appeal, they will be viewed in a very negative light not only from the bb fans but all the potential foreign players that wanted to travel the same path.
and i don’t think it at all invalidates glenn’s argument.
regarding this new  information, we might anticipate these additional arguments, based on reportswe have seen: young kanter, due to his status as a minor, was not aware that the money  he received was in excess of "actual and necessary expenses.
i discovered, to my chagrin, that i had been guilty of seeing situations through anti-ncaa glasses.
a sea of blue -- kentucky sports for the discerning fan by glenn logan on dec 8, 2010 1:12 pm est up reply actions it doesn’t add uppppppppppp!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!1111 go cattttttttttts!!!!!!!!!!!!!
by dshnarw on dec 8, 2010 4:13 pm est up reply actions because i sure don’t.
fine the university, remove the offending athlete and/or coach if he/she is still there and play on.
and that’s a problem.
do sales of the product he’’s
i think 2011 is our best shot in a long time and the kanter deal will be long forgotten.
we all know the eligible ruling was because of the looming big game.
"i bring reason to your ears, and, in language as plain as abc, hold up truth to your eyes."
id add a sea of blue to my yahoo!
if that’s all it took to win an ncaa appeal, i can’t see how anybody could ever lose.
based on the statement in the initial ruling, it seems likely to me that the hangup in the kanter case is the source, not the amount.
glenn makes a good point about applying the rules as they exist.
istanbul was constantinople
id sign in with facebook use openid openid remember don't have openid?sign up by glenn logan on dec 7, 2010 11:17 am est in commentarytweet kentucky has the reputation, rightfully earned in my mind, as the most storied basketball program in the nation.
if cam had known and did not alert the ncaa to his father's  activities (a tall order, no doubt), or if auburn had been aware of his  activities and not reported them, he would have been declared ineligible.
however, i would suggest that the root cause of that frustration is a failure, and even a deliberate lack of intent, of the fans to educate themselves about a given situation for which they have a beef.
by a2d2 on dec 8, 2010 4:59 pm est up reply actions by uk1972 on dec 8, 2010 5:47 pm est up reply actions maybe they won’t think their hands are tied anymore.
there even is a sort-of precedent with sydney since he sat out an entire year, even if it wasn’t technically a suspension.
that would still register as money earned, even if you don’t take it.
you get a ton of foreign players who try to make it professionally from about 16-20 years old, realize its going to be nearly impossible (only a few hundred pro tennis players really make any decent money), so then change direction and come to play for us colleges, where they have a nice opportunity to get a free education.
just from a technical standpoint: kanter’s money received is not, in fact, “orders of magnitude” greater than sidney’s or selby’s.
a sea of blue -- kentucky sports for the discerning fan by glenn logan on dec 7, 2010 5:10 pm est up reply actions “pay for play” is “pay for play” to me.
navigation: jump to content areas: screen name password remember forgot password?
thomas paine, december 23, 1776 by wild weasel on dec 8, 2010 1:28 am est via mobile up reply actions a sea of blue -- kentucky sports for the discerning fan by glenn logan on dec 8, 2010 7:24 am est up reply actions
by kywineman on dec 7, 2010 10:52 pm est up reply actions cal is not perfect but abysmal
spring break is considered education-related, right?
the transaction was between adults, not enes, a minor at the time.
by jdogblue on dec 7, 2010 6:14 pm est reply actions let that happen and pretty soon you will be sleeping with a camel.
the ncaa student-athlete reinstatement staff's conclusion read thus: "enes took advantage of an opportunity to play at the highest level  available to him, but the consequences of receiving payments above his actual  expenses is not compatible with the collegiate model of sports that our members  have developed," said kevin lennon, ncaa vice president of academic and  membership affairs.
nike doesnt make ski gear, btw.
by wheatgerm on dec 8, 2010 4:48 am est up reply actions no contract signed, was a minor, league by-laws prohibit paying a child a salary.
the artist formerly known as abc!
a sea of blue -- kentucky sports for the discerning fan by glenn logan on dec 7, 2010 9:15 pm est up reply actions the fans are their client because it is the money from the fans that they, and the universities they represent, are lusting after more and more.
(adopted: 1/13/03 effective 8/1/03)
the issue wasn’t his receiving money as a professional for salary (which the ncaa had no problem with), but his receipt of money for endorsements which the ncaa does not allow.
many things happen in a tournament and teams that “should have” don’t more often then not.
cite bylaws, cite examples of cases where the ncaa has not followed a reasonable process.
by mjj_001 on dec 7, 2010 2:09 pm est up reply actions mjj makes a good point about broad policy considerations.
it is also important to note that there are defensible counter-arguments to every single one of these, no matter how convincing they may sound.
was that the players not listening as well?
by dshnarw on dec 7, 2010 11:06 pm est up reply actions cam has been granted an exemption that runs contrary to previous ncaa position.
by greg alan edwards on dec 8, 2010 9:25 am est up reply actions blue... there is no other color to bleed !!!
after i compose myself from all the screaming and dancing around.
by kydamcat on dec 7, 2010 11:28 pm est up reply actions what’s that thing that spells the same backwards as forwards?
educational expenses not permitted by the governing legislation of this association (see bylaw 15 regarding permissible financial aid to enrolled student-athletes).
by dshnarw on dec 8, 2010 1:34 pm est up reply actions the professional camel has his nose, head, and neck under the amateur tent.
but let’s be honest — if kanter were eligible and we were about to get a #1 seed in the ncaa championship and a similar situation reared its head, i prefer to believe that the ncaa would use an equal sense of all possible speed to reach a resolution.
in the spring, not the fall, because no good big was going to sign in november, when uk had cousins and orton just coming in.
unless of course he returns for some crazy reason, like say a lockout.
this is the first, and most important prong in an eligibility restoration  debate -- were the actions by the player an "intent to  professionalize?"  it is hard to know the exact reasoning behind the  decision by the ncaa student-athlete reinstatement staff todeclare kanter  permanently ineligible, because they didn't release their reasoning, only their  conclusion.
by kywineman on dec 7, 2010 10:33 pm est up reply actions … in the abstract.
really great way to go about your business.
and i think the ncaa is hypocritical to its very core, for reasons i mentioned above.
if orton had stayed, kanter becomes eligible, and so on.
if uk had kobe on the team last year, he probably hits 1 three in the wv game and they win.
as does every other ncaa school.
by a2d2 on dec 8, 2010 8:46 am est up reply actions
it seems a legit question.
well, a lot of those foreign-born players a: received large amounts of funds from their national tennis associations as teenagers to train at tennis academies, and b: many of them have experience playing in professional, prize money tournaments.
"all the way" by ro307805 on dec 7, 2010 3:52 pm est reply actions by uk1972 on dec 7, 2010 4:02 pm est up reply actions so why hold the scholarship?
as far as kantner; the rules are the rules.
a sea of blue -- kentucky sports for the discerning fan by glenn logan on dec 8, 2010 7:21 am est up reply actions by wheatgerm on dec 8, 2010 3:06 am est up reply actions a sea of blue -- kentucky sports for the discerning fan by glenn logan on dec 7, 2010 7:27 pm est up reply actions in some cases the ncaa is looking for reasons to keep an athlete while in others reasons to deny him/her eligibility.
tennis and golf amateurs are not allowed to receive more than “actual or necessary” expenses, just like basketball players.
a sea of blue -- kentucky sports for the discerning fan by glenn logan on dec 8, 2010 7:01 am est up reply actions on how the basic fan and sports follower view their results on these cases.
we do not know exactly what one thing, or combination of things, made the committee reach its conclusion, or what particular test kanter flunked thatrenardo sidney and josh selby passed.
if a basketball player accepts money for playing tennis, he can still play basketball as an amateur, theoretically, and the same with the reverse.
i get that it seems inconsistent, but it’s not as if that decision comes from “on high.”
by dshnarw on dec 7, 2010 3:15 pm est up reply actions the money he received was from skiing, whether that be from earnings or endorsements.
yet until just this past summer, any foreign-born player who earned one red cent playing basketball was permanently ineligible.
you make a great point regarding the source of the money.
an individual may receive educational expenses awarded by a professional team or league, in accordance with the applicable conditions set forth in bylaw 15.2.5.6.
and “the rules” are not just the rules.
next year could be the exact same.
you may argue that it’s inconsistent for team sports not to have been able to play with pros pre-2010
after all is said and done, the investigators may find that auburn and cam or his father have some issues after all.
it could be that the educational expenses are causing all the trouble.
the case for enes kanter's eligibility this has been discussed at length in comment threads, but these diverse  opinions need to be tied together into one coherent whole.
a sea of blue -- kentucky sports for the discerning fan by glenn logan on dec 7, 2010 12:43 pm est up reply actions tennis players are accepting benefits from tennis academies or associations, not, say, soccer academies.
as i said, there are defensible counter-arguments to every single argument i made without exception.
quite the contrary, imo.
& he does so so with the cats this year.
the new information first has  to go back to the reinstatement staff, and if their new ruling is unfavorable,  on to the reinstatement committee.
and if i saw the guys coming in, the guys that might stay, there is no way i would think my playing time would improve next year.
the rules were different for team sports, in that competition on pro teams wasn’t allowed.
then, how can they possibly complain about the decision when it came from their own members rather than the bureaucracy?
we are one of many good programs and it will not be easy to win #8.
in addition there is the news that kentucky will try to introduce new  evidenceinto the kanter matter.
i’m not saying it’s right or wrong, i’m saying it’s a defensible position for them to take
again all i can cite at the present is appearance.
by 166leslie on dec 7, 2010 11:43 pm est via mobile up reply actions if kanter was on the floor, do you think uk would have lost?
it seems i goofed the labels on my e-copies.
by mjj_001 on dec 7, 2010 7:27 pm est up reply actions … that you have not proven any of your allegations, you’re just making them in a factual vacuum.
a sea of blue -- kentucky sports for the discerning fan by glenn logan on dec 8, 2010 1:16 pm est up reply actions
by rule, kanter received a prohibited form of pay from a professional basketball team.
i predict that the best outcome we can hope for is a 30% season penalty.
i am not telling these young men to look to transfer, but what if?
that distinguishes him from newton in an important way.
nick by kansasukcat on dec 7, 2010 2:40 pm est reply actions that really isn’t who they care about.
it just seems like a pr nightmare for the ncaa to allow athletes whose family members are on the take to continue to play and deny enes under his circumstances.
we know we have another killer class for 2011.
i would agree that the ncaa’s current definition of “amateur” needs to be updated and refined, but mostly people distrust them becuase they don’t explain themselves, and when they do, it is in long, legal-sounding documents that make people think of lawyers.
i understand the argument that 09 should have won that nc.
tennis players come out of a background that is loosely structured, and people go out of their way to help them meet ncaa regulations (meaning, basically, they help them hide or channel the money).
his name doesn’t ring a bell though.
but the details matter.
transparently more politic than rule-hewing.
thomas paine, december 23, 1776 by wild weasel on dec 7, 2010 8:54 pm est reply actions there is no real doubt that the timing of the situation was a major factor in the newton decision, and even if the ncaa didn’t say so, it is right there for everyone but a mental midget to see.
his parents have money and he has turned down a big payday before.
a whole lot o’ folks care about college bball, and there is a huge spotlight on enes kanter.
:-) a sea of blue -- kentucky sports for the discerning fan by glenn logan on dec 8, 2010 1:18 pm est up reply actions
the ncaa allows this because the players “don’t accept the prize money (i smell bs)”.
the recipient shall be considered a counter per bylaw 15.5.1, and the amount shall be applied to the maximum award limitations of bylaw 15.5 for the sport in question.
but that is true of any human endeavor.
if they determined he was a pro, if that’s the reason for the punishment, it would have been the easiest thing in the world to say so.
as a matter of fact, though, none of the usc players are really being punished.
what are they suppost to do if they have a kid at a young age that they think may have high bb potential – hire an american lawyer several years before hand and have them deal with all these club teams, in order to keep their son eligible at some futuristic date…?
you may not agree with their interpretation of their rules, but ultimately, as long as they are consistent within their respective sports, it’s hard to see the problem.
it would provide political cover.
it is also important to note that there are  defensible counter-arguments to every single one of these, no matter how  convincing they may sound.
so does this mean that kanter flunked the test of "intent to professionalize?"
then again, the guidelines are just that.
by dshnarw on dec 7, 2010 6:06 pm est up reply actions the $33,033 in excess expense occurred in the 2008-09 season, according to the ncaa’s nov.11 press release.
the ncaa has to realize that it may be a little more difficult for a forign player and his family to interpet these outlandish rules and regulations.
@btcoop71 by btcoop71 on dec 8, 2010 10:14 am est up reply actions
a sea of blue -- kentucky sports for the discerning fan by glenn logan on dec 7, 2010 5:11 pm est up reply actions
by jleverenz on dec 7, 2010 2:31 pm est up reply actions he was penalized one year of eligibility for lying to the ncaa, just as dez bryant was.
the poroblem is holding out for the second coming of jamal mashburn when we just need a warm body who can spend 5 fouls.
after 2010, the rules are the same — reasonable and necessary expenses allowed.
i was punished for the actions of others that i knew nothing about.
enes kanter has alternatively become a rallying cry and a cautionary  tale.
$33,000 may not sound like that much, but compared to sidney and selby, it  is several orders of magnitude  times greater.
i understand why he left but i’m sure he thinks from time to time that he would rather be back at uk than playing d-league ball.
in other  words, this is apartial cam newton scenario.
by mjj_001 on dec 8, 2010 10:58 am est up reply actions … individual sports players could compete with pros and remain eligible as long as they didn’t take any money.
by kywineman on dec 7, 2010 11:04 pm est up reply actions this is a long-running complaint, and a lamentable one.
what better time to learn about that than in college?
the biggest and best argument for enes kanter's reinstatement has always been that the ncaa has previously allowed athletes who accepted money from agents, shoe companies, and other third parties in return for playing basketball to repay that money and accept a game penalty.
there is a whole other level of professional play below the atp, where earnings are exceptionally difficult to trace.
if this was just a way-station to the nba, then no dice.
i see this year as more of a rebuilding year.
any commercial use or distribution without the express written consent of associated press and getty images is strictly prohibited.
maybe it was a “membership” only article that was open the day i read it?
so there is a chance he would stay.
by dshnarw on dec 7, 2010 5:24 pm est up reply actions a sea of blue -- kentucky sports for the discerning fan by glenn logan on dec 7, 2010 5:26 pm est up reply actions if i’m a betting man, i would say the ncaa ultimately rules enes eligible – but with a 1 year suspension.
they may not seem “fair,” but then again, you can attend college anytime you want to, assuming academic qualifications, as a professional player of any sport.
in other words, there  was an intent to educate, not to professionalize, and neither enes nor his  family used that money for any other purpose.
by dshnarw on dec 8, 2010 1:08 pm est up reply actions im not going to go into all the reasons why.
at least in certain sports.
it is they who write the rules that are enforced among members.
the difference between this entire system and kanter’s case is splitting hairs, and really only has to do with the fact that kanter was paid by a large, well-known professional organization that absolutely did not want him to leave.
once again, i am missing the part where something is hypocritical here.
by wheatgerm on dec 8, 2010 12:52 am est reply actions as with so many, things like this are very rarely as they appear.
i think our future looks pretty good.
why let the guys that knowingly cheated play, but not let the guy that didn’t knowingly cheat play?
in addition, the ncaa takes into  consideration knowledge of the ncaa legislation at the time of the  violation.
by wheatgerm on dec 8, 2010 2:44 am est up reply actions you are correct.
given that kanter played for fu during the period in which this was the specified rules, it was likely argued by uk that kanter be grandfathered in under the old interpretation, though he still was in violation of the rule in action, if not intent.
and that has been going on for years, not just since this past summer, when the rules for basketball were modified.
that is not their “client,” if you will.
it’s in-sport benefits that the ncaa finds ok for one sport, but apparently not for others.
do the radio/tv announcers start talking about his skiing ability and his sponsorships on the air in the middle of the football game?
even if he was aware that money was given and set aside for his education, he was in no position to make the decision for himself.
of someone better, or at least as good as, harrellson and vargas, that uk could have recruited.
i would prefer to find fault with the ncaa all the time, but because i decided to refuse to ignore the facts in favor of broadly-reasoned themes that the ncaa simply doesn’t buy, i discovered that they were really a lot more reasonable in indianapolis than i imagined.
regarding this new information, we might anticipate these additional arguments, based on reportswe have seen: it's important to note that i have no idea if all this is right or not vis-a-vis uk's intentions.
i never thought the ncaa was out to get uk, but if kanter doesn’t get to play, then i would have to change my mind on that matter.
like with cam newton.
its been standard procedure for years now.
based on d, kanter broke the rule because fu didn’t pay the expenses directly, and he broke e because he received more than necessary to pay for education.
it gives me a little hope.
unrealistic expectations will only give you very real stress.
more: renardo sidney (f - miss. st), josh selby (g - kansas), enes  kanter (f - kentucky), kentucky wildcats sign in with your yahoo!
it seems  that the staff decision may have been at least partially based on the fact that  the source of income was a professional team in the sport that kanter was  trying to play in the u.s. as an amateur.
glenn doesnt point out a differentiation, he just says you can play one and get paid then still play in another ncaa sport.
by kywineman on dec 7, 2010 8:06 pm est up reply actions … and i have said, that the ncaa does not care what the fans think.
by wheatgerm on dec 7, 2010 4:52 pm est reply actions while kanter was with the pro team, the rule stated: 12.1.2.1.3 educational expenses.
by greg alan edwards on dec 7, 2010 8:09 pm est up reply actions my perception is that fans tend to complain about the ncaa without really trying to understand their reasoning.
does he come back next year or does he try for the nba anyway?
i dont remember the school, kid or sports.
you claim they are earning “prize money,” but the ncaa rules state that they may earn money as long as it isn’t in excess of actual or necessary expenses — just like basketball players.
by acdixon on dec 8, 2010 10:12 am est up reply actions
i call that hypocrisy.
a sea of blue -- kentucky sports for the discerning fan by glenn logan on dec 7, 2010 5:19 pm est up reply actions as reasonable based on their own actions in other cases.
seriously though, i don’t have anything about this topic at hand to add, other than i agree with those who opine that the ncaa is not out to get kentucky (i don’t live my life that way, you know, that everyone is out to get me, so i sure don’t live my fandom that way, either), but i just wanted to say what a joy this thread has been to read.
it seems like such an obvious thing to do that i have a hard time imagining that the appeal will rule any other way.
a sea of blue -- kentucky sports for the discerning fan by glenn logan on dec 7, 2010 5:13 pm est up reply actions it is oversimplified.
i’m of the opinion that if cam newton had been uk’s qb, instead of auburn’s that indeed mirroring all the circumstances that took place at auburn, he would had been declared ineligible by the ncaa no matter if our fb record and ranking equaled theirs.
@btcoop71 by btcoop71 on dec 8, 2010 10:16 am est up reply actions
if sandy bell can pull this off, i will stand and applaud.
as minor as it may seem, his fame in football may affect his endorsements.
check which manual you’re using, dsh, because it’s possible that the rule you quote comes from a division ii manual.
the ncaa has to have some very resounding reason to allow kanter to play – member schools will otherwise see nothing but the fact that he was paid money by a pro team.
i think so many people look at the ncaa as somehow distinct in itself, but it isn’t.
but if personal responsibility means anything, the principle in newton’s reinstatement should apply here, not to exonerate kanter, but to reduce the penalty from permanent ban to the usual suspension and repayment of impermissible benefits.
and it was from this excess, according to mike decourcy, that the kanters used nearly $20k for their son’s education.
the ncaa student-athlete reinstatement staff's conclusion read thus: "enes took advantage of an opportunity to play at the highest level available to him, but the consequences of receiving payments above his actual expenses is not compatible with the collegiate model of sports that our members have developed," said kevin lennon, ncaa vice president of academic and membership affairs.
i was just pointing to an example of where this wasnt a wholly true statement.
coach lost the unc game, not the players.
as i have explained, it is only the nexus of the athlete with their member university that makes them matter, and the constituency of the ncaa is the member universities, not the athletes.
by blueorion on dec 7, 2010 4:18 pm est reply actions it started with mike decourcy on nov. 11: “the ncaa told the family that fenerbahce would have needed to pay for those expenses directly for them to be permissible.”
so if the rules basically encourage tennis athletes who have been trained as professionals, and have played as professionals, to come on over and play for old state u, while completely disallowing it for basketball, i call it hypocritical.
opencalais - powered by thomson reuters
admittedly, the wall situation involved only $800.00 or so, and the selby situation involves quite a bit more money.
it seems very easy to argue that the kanter's understanding of  the bylaws would be far less than those of the parents of cam newton, renardo  sidney or josh selby simply due to the fact that those worthies grew up in the  aau and high school ranks, where what is allowed and not allowed is force-fed  to prospects from an early age.
i woke up feeling blue this morning.
effectively, they’re throwing it back in his court – if getting an education is really important, this is how you do it.
we are all hoping some players stick around this year, but what if poole and hood leave?
he wasn’t and kanter isn’t (yet).
i am now and forever shall be the cat
we do not know exactly what one thing, or  combination of things, made the committee reach its conclusion, or what  particular test kanter flunked thatrenardo sidney and josh selby passed.
he quit going to class his last semester.
all sports are not created equal to the ncaa, and while i know that makes it look somehow inconsistent, they seem to be consistent in that they simply don’t consider cross-sport differences as important.
if even one dollar of that endorsement money comes from him playing football (whether it’s directly stated or just “understood” to be that way), it is an improper benefit.
for tennis players, the funding they receive comes from some national association, and people go out of their way to help them hide or deny any prize money they might have won.
i’m using rule 12.1.2.1.3.1 from that manual.
as both the euroleague and beko basketball league schedules begin in october, we want the 2008-09 ncaa division i manual, effective august 1, 2008.
just as nobody is guaranteed the school will field a football team or renew a scholarship year by year, nobody is guaranteed a smooth ride vis-a-vis the ncaa.
do you want him to oversign just in case of situations like this in the future?
if you want to defend the ncaa, that’s your prerogative.
does he get extra football gear from a sponsor like nike?
by kywineman on dec 7, 2010 10:40 pm est up reply actions
a sea of blue -- kentucky sports for the discerning fan by glenn logan on dec 7, 2010 7:29 pm est up reply actions … if $100,000+ can be reasonable and necessary expenses for kanter, it seems a foregone conclusion that $34,000 can be reasonable and necessary expenses for a tennis player.
so does this mean that kanter flunked the test of "intent to  professionalize?"  on what basis?  was it that he took too much  money, or more the fact of where the money came from, or both?
also, if prize money is earned but not taken by the player, their amateur status is not affected.
and he has not shot a single free throw.
your point remains the same, however.
"sports"--not interested----"cats"--pull up a chair,i've got all night.
they are afraid they will be criticized by their membership, and they don’t want to forever be answering that “how do you justify letting a guy who got paid by a pro team play?” question.
so what we want are the ncaa rules that were in place during ulker’s 2008-09 season.
i assume tennis is similar.
by mjj_001 on dec 7, 2010 10:53 pm est up reply actions … as to how an atp ranking is an ncaa violation.
and the ncaa looks the other way.
this would seem to mitigate any inappropriate actions by his  parents, just as it did in the newton case, especially since kanter's parents  were apparently acting guilelessly.
it is about a single order of magnitude greater than selby, and about one-half an order of magnitude greater than sidney.
the ncaa needs to create a clearer path for foreign players to compete in basketball, and kanter has the case to set a precedent.
a former professional athlete may receive educational expenses from a professional team or league, provided the following conditions are met: (a) the student-athlete no longer is involved in professional athletics; (b)
and the practical application of them has the exact result i’ve been speaking of-
by scottwalls on dec 8, 2010 1:53 am est up reply actions … with due respect, making broad arguments that “make perfect sense” tend to ignore the minutiae that is the primary focus of the ncaa legislation.
a sea of blue -- kentucky sports for the discerning fan by glenn logan on dec 7, 2010 9:02 pm est up reply actions cam newton.
not the kind of leader we need.
:-) a sea of blue -- kentucky sports for the discerning fan by glenn logan on dec 7, 2010 9:06 pm est up reply actions but the essence of the decision to reinstate.
we don't really know, so that's why a discussion of this case is so very difficult other than in the abstract.
by greg alan edwards on dec 8, 2010 1:19 pm est up reply actions i wouldn’t admit it publicly.
also, there is no spotlight on college tennis- almost no one cares.
how do you argue your way out of that one?
by kywineman on dec 7, 2010 6:40 pm est up reply actions i noticed it, just thought it was ‘glenn being glenn’ again.
glenn’s point is more germane to uk appeal.
we have scholarships we did not use.
the problem is, i think tennessee would not be happy.
by oilliecat on dec 7, 2010 2:04 pm est up reply actions that was denied playing football because he was a professional xtreme athlete.
then we would be ripping him for taking scholarships away from kids.
nick by kansasukcat on dec 8, 2010 10:02 am est up reply actions that nothing is so uncommon as common sense.
a sea of blue -- kentucky sports for the discerning fan by glenn logan on dec 7, 2010 1:57 pm est up reply actions that sounds exactly right to me regarding newton’s father.
change of heart ncaa?
hopefully, uk has a much better idea than we do,  because in the end, if the kanters and uk cannot resolve those concerns via  prior precedent or new information, the committee on reinstatement is likely to  reach the same conclusion the staff did, which is permanent ineligibility.
it was not our right to win nor our destiny.
by bcinva on dec 7, 2010 12:57 pm est up reply actions recruit professional players, for tennis.
it appears that he is too valuable a draw for the ncaa to come down on.
in general, fans don’t make much difference with regard to their perceptions.
in bloom’s case (and why i know of him), he was good enough at football to make the nfl, but suffered injuries that stopped him from competing.
anyone, and i mean anyone who thinks last year’s team shouldn’t have hung a banner in rupp is either lying to themselves or still recovering from the clyde hangover.
money is money, and as far as  rendering a decision on amateurism is concerned, drawing a crooked line between  a professional team and third parties with direct ties to professional  teams could be said to be a distinction without a difference.
by gascan on dec 7, 2010 3:56 pm est via mobile up reply actions if selby, sidney, newton, and bruce pearl get to participate in college sports, then kanter should be able to as well.
“if more information comes to light as a result of the enforcement staff or institution’s investigation, and that information is credible and contradicts the prior facts that were used to base the reinstatement decision, then that information would need to go back to the reinstatement staff,” lach said.
that doesn’t make me right.
it could be used for essentially anything “education-related”.
in the final analysis, the ncaa seems happy to worry about their membership, and trusts that membership to take care of their fans.
by mess038 on dec 7, 2010 4:08 pm est up reply actions are you saying that in the whole state of ky and it’s border towns, not one division one warm body could be found?
blue... there is no other color to bleed !!!
but it was so tough with a new staff and a new team of freshmen.
technically correct, yes but fair and equal treatment of athletes?
that’s really the group who’s perception matters to them.
a team like that might challenge the celtics.
the member universities have a significant financial interest, both individually and collectively.
it worked the same way for tennis and basketball players then, and now.
by 166leslie on dec 7, 2010 8:00 pm est via mobile reply actions it’s wonderful to think we may retain most of this class, and combine it with the monster class of next year.
could you even imagine tubby coaching cal’s recruits???
we really don't know the  rationale of the reinstatement staff, and what specific facts they used to  differentiate the kanter case from other cases like sidney and selby, among  many others.
by kywineman on dec 8, 2010 8:30 am est up reply actions “you cant please everyone, so you got to please yourself”
it is every division i school.
so it has been the basic rule on “educational expenses or services – prior to collegiate enrollment” for the last eight years.
he might really like one. : )
tweet 162 comments | 0 recs | read more: renardo sidney (f - miss. st), josh selby (g - kansas), enes kanter (f - kentucky), kentucky wildcatssign in with your yahoo!
now it’s istanbul, not constantinople been a long time gone, constantinople why did constantinople get the works?
and it’s abundantly clear to me that he knows this case, the applicable rules and the ncaa’s thinking far more than he has been willing to share.
i think they can make a logical case that his endorsement deals could be affected by him playing college football.
i know, because i used to be that way.
selby did it twice by the way.
by uktimmy on dec 7, 2010 2:36 pm est up reply actions for professional skiing.
when any organization has to resort to that argument too often, its an obvious sign that the rules are either wildly inconsistent in how they’re composed, or being applied in a wildly inconsistent, illogical manner.
that’s the reason people hate and distrust the ncaa.
if i were a foreign player and was being pursued by an american university i would be very leery of ‘coming to america’ under these circumstances.
okay, that was hyperbole.
yes, i know all about the $20k that the kanters spent on education, but since that was done outside the rules, it is easy to see that the committee may not be willing to just forget about that fact.
by a2d2 on dec 8, 2010 8:27 am est up reply actions
or maybe it was removed?
although this is a precedent-setting case.
if calipari had used all the scholarships he had available and signed some depth at the 4/ 5, then we wouldn’t be having this conversation.
then it comes to be that the soothing light at the end of your tunnel, is just a freight train coming your way...
by dshnarw on dec 8, 2010 3:05 am est up reply actions by uk1972 on dec 8, 2010 8:08 am est up reply actions how is that an example of an eligible player becoming ineligible in the middle of the season because the ncaa was investigating them, but lacked evidence of wrongdoing by the student athlete?
neither may agents, universities or boosters, for reasons a little reflection makes obvious.
by greg alan edwards on dec 7, 2010 1:17 pm est reply actions a sea of blue -- kentucky sports for the discerning fan by glenn logan on dec 7, 2010 1:46 pm est up reply actions that kanter, as a minor, could be considered unaware of excess expenses.
ok say enes is reinstated but not before mid jan. but also ncaa makes him sit out some games say 5 or 6.
the new information first has to go back to the reinstatement staff, and if their new ruling is unfavorable, on to the reinstatement committee.
by mjj_001 on dec 7, 2010 4:06 pm est up reply actions we just need a warm body who could play division one basketball, and spend 5 fouls.
i can blaze my own guns, but uk probably needs to meet their lawyers with more lawyeriness.
the rule that i believe is applicable states that a prospective student-athlete may receive educational expenses or services from any individual other than a professional sports team/organization (and the few other entities), and then goes on to place a limitation on those who are permitted to provide such expenses.
assuming they came back and kanter was eligible, that puts him at the 13 scholarship limit.
by dshnarw on dec 8, 2010 3:31 am est up reply actions the thing that still gets me about that press release, dshnarw: it never said that kanter was a pro.
this case does not make the argument that the ncaa is on the up and up any easier.
they are what they are.
i’ve read he was supposed to repay about $6,000 in benefits improperly received from an agent(?), but instead the university is repaying it.
these decisions  have been almost universally based on the idea that it was never the student  athlete's intent to "professionalize" himself.
this is the perfect year for cal to gamble a bit on a guy like kanter.
by 166leslie on dec 8, 2010 12:04 am est via mobile up reply actions a decision that applies rules in a way that confounds common sense.
auburn 6 (of 8 listed players).
by dshnarw on dec 8, 2010 1:49 pm est up reply actions professionals…err..coaches.
the two got mixed with inaccurate results.
nick by kansasukcat on dec 8, 2010 9:04 am est reply actions you need to be able to cite case law, examples of ncaa improprieties and their willful intent to denigrate uk and its fanbase to make those kinds of accusations…..lol i am now and forever shall be the cat in the hat....
the only way the ncaa can ensure that doesn’t happen is to disallow all sponsorships.
plus he has been injured off and on all this year.
as i showed above ( i can make a much, much longer list, but its pointless).
but darn it, i just think drawing a line between a smarmy agent, or nike and reebok, and the professional team is just too neat and clean and doesn’t fairly deal with reality.
i thought he sat out last year because the ncaa hadn’t cleared him to play until this year and then they added the 9 games for the money.
the case is not closed i don’t think.
according to my reading of 12.2.3.1, prior to this year, reasonable and necessary expenses were not allowed.
but the ncaa is noting if not consistent in applying their rules only to the sports for which they are directly applicable.
hopefully, uk has a much better idea than we do, because in the end, if the kanters and uk cannot resolve those concerns via prior precedent or new information, the committee on reinstatement is likely to reach the same conclusion the staff did, which is permanent ineligibility.
that was the take-away for most people, but that wasn’t the finding.
by kydamcat on dec 7, 2010 11:46 pm est up reply actions good point 1972.
by fortyyearcatfan on dec 8, 2010 7:23 am est up reply actions nick by kansasukcat on dec 8, 2010 8:52 am est up reply actions
by kywineman on dec 8, 2010 8:20 am est up reply actions regarding kanter’s appeal
they seem correct to me and in line with the ncaa release that kanter received “payments above his actual expenses”.
i am not a believer in the “because its the rules” argument.
now if patterson stayed then we have something.
the ncaa has never considered cross-sport precedence as far as i know.
"free enes"is on the lips of almost every kentucky fan in america, while at the same time, foreign players considering the possibility of playing for american ncaa-controlled universities must be thinking that this avenue is being forever closed, or at best very tightly restricted, before their very eyes.
doesn’t really matter.
by wheatgerm on dec 8, 2010 3:45 am est up reply actions yep, i’m a dork.
the first group told uk their hands were tied, but that they would tell the second group to consider over ruling them.
and in such a case, i defer to your comments.
look, the ncaa sometimes takes positions with which i disagree, and i can lay down a ton of reasons why.
i think they have a leg to stand on no matter what they decide, because the rules are so arbitrarily enforced that they can defend any decision they make.
i’m sure there are considerations that many of us have never thought of when it comes to managing rides..but nonetheless we are always happy to offer our “two-cents” worth.
i doubt we’ll see the ncaa take that position.
though i’d prefer uk and kanter to “win” on whatever basis they can, the ncaa can certainly make a logical case in either direction.
this is the first, and most important prong in an eligibility restoration debate -- were the actions by the player an "intent to professionalize?"
and what if they find that cam and auburn didn’t have any issues?
by sprink on dec 7, 2010 12:49 pm est up reply actions doesn’t that per se establish that selby is receiving excessive benefitsfrom kansas?
if it is a rule in tennis and not a rule in basketball, they just don’t care about how that looks to laypersons like us.
most of the time, it boils down to a difference of opinion.
by jleverenz on dec 7, 2010 7:59 pm est up reply actions i’m looking at you, pearl.
the colleges themselves have made these rules.
this team could be awesome.
i understand your reasoning, but the ncaa has been consistent in the way they insulate sports from each other.
bloom knew this stance would be taken by the ncaa because he worked with them on the subject before choosing to take the sponsorships anyway.
you can be the greatest coach in the game, but if nobody listens, it doesn’t matter.
explain the lack of offense in the last 10 minutes of the game or for that matter, the entire uconn game.
abysmal as a description of our coaching is absurd.
;) by uklvrbm on dec 7, 2010 9:35 pm est up reply actions myself then because i don’t think they “should have hung a banner”, i think they could have just like several other teams in the ncaa field.
a sea of blue -- kentucky sports for the discerning fan by glenn logan on dec 7, 2010 1:43 pm est up reply actions
a sea of blue -- kentucky sports for the discerning fan by glenn logan on dec 8, 2010 6:56 am est up reply actions kilicli was suspended around 20 games at wvu for participating in competitions with professional teammates (not receiving any cash).
the ncaa enforces a stricter money ban for some sports than others, but in the final analysis, they allow some money to be taken by all.
theenes kanter saga with its byzantine complexity and massive ramifications for the future of this year's kentucky wildcats team is just the latest in a long line of great stories that, whatever the outcome, will forever be woven into the tapestry of the most interesting college men's basketball program in america.
naturally we want the rules for division i.
i hadn’t seen the newton argument made in “anti-uk” fashion on here before, so i thought i’d offer.
they legitimately did not take the money).
this year’s team is good, and they could be great.
by kywineman on dec 8, 2010 8:01 pm est up reply actions paranoia, indeed.
he immediately got awsome players in his first year and we were back.
fast forward to the last 10 minutes of that game.
you should probably give kansasukcat one of those t-shirts you had printed.
the only reason nike or an agent is giving a person money is because they’re good at playing ball – same as a team.
what was uk’s game plan?
you know, the ones that say something along the lines of “the ncaa is the devil”?
by bcinva on dec 7, 2010 12:17 pm est reply actions a sea of blue -- kentucky sports for the discerning fan by glenn logan on dec 7, 2010 12:31 pm est up reply actions i’m not sure anyone understands it.
prior to 2010, the rules were the same — no money allowed.
we have some great freshman again but they all may not go pro at the end of the year this time.
by nyccats on dec 7, 2010 1:44 pm est reply actions unfortunately for us this year.
do you think zeller would have scored 27pts?
regardless, the appeal to the ncaa student-athlete reinstatement committee will be based on the following arguments, no matter what: in addition there is the news that kentucky will try to introduce new evidenceinto the kanter matter.
i guarantee not a single fan would be complaining about tubby winning with another coaches recruits ever again.
by mjj_001 on dec 7, 2010 1:35 pm est up reply actions they are simply applying the rules that exist.
but the little coaching i have seen thus far in the year has been abysmal.
this complaint does not move me.
so any educational expense paid by an outside sports team or organization, prior to or after collegiate enrollment, was and is classified as a “prohibited form of pay.”
it is possible that the amount of money in question is the primary concern, and if that is so, there really isn't much to be done to overcome that perception.
it is hard to know the exact reasoning behind the decision by the ncaa student-athlete reinstatement staff todeclare kanter permanently ineligible, because they didn't release their reasoning, only their conclusion.
nor … well, 95% of the d-1 colleges.
by dshnarw on dec 7, 2010 7:10 pm est up reply actions to whom i was referring.
we may never know if that is so, though, so the reader’s mileage may vary on that comment.
what’s within the rules in one sport is not so in another.
by cpacat on dec 7, 2010 1:48 pm est up reply actions if i had to lay money on a particular, specific outcome this would be the one.
by golightning on dec 7, 2010 11:40 pm est up reply actions in the reinstatement committee’s guidelines on proposed penalties.
kanter's situation is not exactly analogous, but there is a similarity in  terms of intent.
every one of them could elect to go to another school without penalty, but they realize that they’ll get just as much tv time (if that’s what they want) or the opportunity to compete at the same level sans bowl game even if they stay.
it’s okay for him to do it.
so, did the ncaa’s ruling “fall on the side of the student-athletes” when they punished current usc players (banned from post-season play for 2 years) for the alleged actions of individuals who haven’t been students for years????
i would be curious what the ncaa considers “too much” to suspend and repay should this point be the source of their ruling.
the statement their sending out is basically this: “we are the ncaa.
using impermissible benefits to commit another violation of the rules only exacerbates the offense.
the ncaa declined to consider cam newton’s father an extension of him, although an argument could be made that since cam was of age, he wouldn’t be.
the ncaa will likely never be perceived by fans as reasonable.
i like your analogy of boot camp, been there, done that.
you can always couch facts into an argument that makes perfect sense if you ignore the details and stick with the big picture.
yes, i know all about the  $20k that the kanters spent on education, but since that was done outside the  rules, it is easy to see that the committee may not be willing to just forget  about that fact.
again, i am not wishing for another coach by any means.
the ncaa is well within a reasonable reading of the rules to declare him permanently ineligible, as they have.
if you have an atp ranking, and listed atp earnings, how, exactly, have you not been competing with tennis professionals?
but maybe mitch could hire an “in-game” assistant that could teach coach a thing or two.
the fans also have an interest, both financially and emotionally, although that interest is so diluted by comparison to the institutions that their power is almost impossible to muster except in very rare situations.
by bigskycat on dec 8, 2010 9:54 am est up reply actions nick by kansasukcat on dec 8, 2010 10:06 am est up reply actions
that’s contrary to rule 12.1.2.1.3.1, which says rather clearly (after several readings) that professional sports teams/organationzations may notprovide educational expenses or services to prospective student-athletes.
it's important to note that i have no idea if all this is right or not  vis-a-vis uk's intentions.
i’m not saying that uk should go in guns a blazin’.
thanks for pointing that out.
i hope it doesn’t happen come tourney time, but watch the first 3 minutes of the game and tell me if unc’s game plan wasn’t perfectly clear.
duke was one miracle heave of a basketball away from going home runners-up.
by jbt36 5 days ago 13 comments | 4 recs by greg alan edwards about 22 hours ago 7 comments by eagletdl 2 days ago 184 comments by thomas mario adams iii 3 days ago 3 comments by jleverenz 3 days ago 22 comments by wild weasel 3 days ago 5 comments by futureofhoops 4 days ago 4 comments | 1 recs by bigbluenation2 4 days ago 6 comments by greg alan edwards 5 days ago 5 comments by bbrady21 5 days ago 15 comments by ritomase 5 days ago 0 comments + new fanpost all fanposts > +25 updates more from sbnation.com >
i never had  any idea how much money i made, because it was handled 100% by my parents.
if it doesn’t pass their initial perception of what “fairness” aught to look like, that’s it — it’s unfair, wrong, evil, corrupt, or worse.
where’s the fairness in sitting the kid and retroactively saying “oops, you should have been able to play those last two games”?
and it makes perfect sense.
personally i’m giving cal a chance to build up an actual team for a real run at the chapionship.
by dshnarw on dec 7, 2010 6:03 pm est up reply actions my mother would be shaking her head over that one.
it is possible that the amount of money in  question is the primary concern, and if that is so, there really isn't much to  be done to overcome that perception.
id add a  sea of blue to my yahoo!
if they know, of course, which i suspect many did know in the case of bush.
but orton was no good for uk this year either way.
"free enes"is on the lips of almost every kentucky fan in  america, while at the same time, foreign players considering the possibility of  playing for american ncaa-controlled universities must be thinking that this  avenue is being forever closed, or at best very tightly  restricted, before their very eyes.
that would be so if it were true.
i am now and forever shall be the cat in the hat....
but they are being stunningly hypocritical.
by wheatgerm on dec 8, 2010 3:51 am est up reply actions that’s what worries me the most.
no, if they suspend kanter at all it will be for 9 games plus repayment, the prescribed penalty for impermissible benefits over $1000.
when new comments pop up, and you get all of this great discussion, all these great posts that have such valuable info and well-thought-out opinions, well, i think it’s great and it has been a pleasure to read.
there is no real doubt that if vast numbers of fans across the country tried to affect ncaa regulations by acting as a cohesive whole, they could.
that’s nobody’s business but the turks even old new york was once new amsterdam
sorry, but i think you have misread the bylaws, and i was wrong when i said they are stricter on some sports than others.
a difference of opinion does not make one evil, or corrupt, especially if both are defensible.
cal has not actually had time to really “rebuild” the uk program.
i would like to see an example where the ncaa told a player they had to sit out of games in the midst of their season because there was an investigation in which they haven’t found evidence that the student was in violation of any ncaa rule.
so far, all you’ve done is make a bunch of claims of hypocrisy, but it turns out those charges aren’t demonstrably accurate.
i also agree that he needs to have some time to get his guys in and get his system going.
tons of college players are listed as having earned atp prize money.
if you could find it again by dshnarw on dec 8, 2010 1:35 pm est up reply actions i had little time to find the article, and these “blogs” are not where i read it.
theenes kanter saga with its  byzantine complexity and massive ramifications for the future of this year's kentucky wildcats team is just the latest in a long line of great stories that,  whatever the outcome, will forever be woven into the tapestry of the most  interesting college men's basketball program in america.
that's what we'll attempt to do here.
we really don't know the rationale of the reinstatement staff, and what specific facts they used to differentiate the kanter case from other cases like sidney and selby, among many others.
a sea of blue -- kentucky sports for the discerning fan by glenn logan on dec 7, 2010 9:08 pm est up reply actions by 166leslie on dec 7, 2010 11:29 pm est via mobile up reply actions 2009 was “our best shot in a long time” to win a nc.
by wheatgerm on dec 7, 2010 3:52 pm est up reply actions … that the ncaa is kentucky.
my own thought: if one thinks that the urgency of the sec championship game and its likely impact on the bcs title didn’t influence the newton decision then that person is deserving of the naif of the year award — so much for the inscrutable ncaa.
they all knowingly and blantantly broke the rules.
so we’ll just have to agree to disagree on this one.
even participating in what the ncaa deemed a professional league, without receiving payment of any kind, resulted in a lengthy suspension.
by greg alan edwards on dec 7, 2010 1:20 pm est up reply actions … they may well do that.
but you are undoubtedly right.
and if you watched cal’s comments after the game, he clearly said he told his guys not to foul zeller, and they did anyway.
it should require they be held to a higher standard.
i’m thinking cal is building something this year.
by greg alan edwards on dec 8, 2010 9:27 am est up reply actions nick by kansasukcat on dec 8, 2010 9:55 am est up reply actions
i love what cal has done for the program in his short tenure.
tweet  162 comments  |  0 recs  | do you like this story?
the ncaa has taken the stance that the source of the pay matters in a number of cases (including kanter’s).
i think it is more difficult for the ncaa to rule him eligible and be perceived as reasonable by the member schools than it is to rule him ineligible.
do you think your version of “fair” and “reasonable” in the kanter case is the same as a duke or louisville fan?
this kind of reasoning is exactly why i think kanter has a better shot in the appeals committee: let the members directly decide the outcome and set the precedent.
that rule has been changed, but just this past summer.
i know what’s going on there.
that’s 2 hours and 42 minutes on the court.
a sea of blue -- kentucky sports for the discerning fan by glenn logan on dec 8, 2010 1:13 pm est up reply actions i think one of cal’s greatest strengths is getting his players to listen to him and turning a bunch of kids used to playing for themselves into playing as a unit and for a team.
after the staff’s initial decision, calipari mentioned how the kanter’s didn’t know it was wrong to use the money that way.
"   the logic of this is that his family was handling the finances, and it is  rational to think that enes would not be aware of how much money was needed for  actual and necessary expenses since he wasn't paying the bills.
it was great to visit with cawood for every game, but… blue... there is no other color to bleed !!!
2012 nfl mock draft ufc allen iverson nba power rankings nhl trade deadline ipad 3 rumors glenn logan bigskycat ken howlett jleverenz jc25 a2d2 alex scutchfield official partner of copyright © 2012 vox media, inc.
regardless, the appeal to the ncaa student-athlete reinstatement committee  will be based on the following arguments, no matter what: kanter did not intend to professionalize himself.
by mjj_001 on dec 7, 2010 12:10 pm est reply actions by bcinva on dec 7, 2010 12:18 pm est up reply actions … all of this is irrelevant.
they could plough new ground here under the rubric of the new rule never having been applied, and the lack of prior precedent.
but i’m not holding my breath.
3 > 2, except for very large values of 2.
kentucky helps make these rules.
the ncaa’s ruling is very rarely about student-athletes.
but the facts we don’t know probably matter a great deal.
going through the list of the top 5 ranked ncaa men, and crossing it with the atp (professional tennis) website, i get this: john-patrick smith (australian)- $3,596 earnings on tour henrique cunha (brazilian) $6,009 bradley klahn (us born)- $34,945 guillermo gomez (spain)- $6,022 chase buchanan (us)- $43,000 and that atp site only shows earnings from elite-level, atp tour events.
we all know how that worked out.
they could always turn the offender in.
kanter's parents applied any moneys in excess of expenses to young enes'  education, or sequestered it in a separate account for appropriate disposition  according to their perception of ncaa rules.
people dream of playing for uk.
the biggest and best argument for enes kanter's reinstatement has always  been that the ncaa has previously allowed athletes who accepted money from  agents, shoe companies, and other third parties in return for playing  basketball to repay that money and accept a game penalty.
by ukfan24 on dec 7, 2010 9:21 pm est reply actions he really wants to play for uk though.
not to mention the fact that many european countries have a club system for tennis where players can make a nice chunk of change playing for their local club.
by cpacat on dec 7, 2010 1:47 pm est reply actions great point!
what difference does this make?
"all the way" by ro307805 on dec 9, 2010 6:01 pm est up reply actions who was he supposed to sign as late in the year as it was when bledsoe and orton both decided to declare for the draft?
this joke is not getting any funnier.
this year, they can accept “reasonable and necessary expenses.”
by uk1972 on dec 8, 2010 8:13 am est up reply actions the best argument for eligibility.
then there is cal who will no doubt encourage him to go pro.
you’re such a frequent, vehement and fact-free ncaa critic, i’m making a double standard for you.
by mjj_001 on dec 7, 2010 5:41 pm est up reply actions …
the money kanter took in excess benefits was comparatively trivial,  especially considering most of it was used for education, a defined exception  in the bylaws, even if the execution was flawed.
they seem to deal only with the rules that pertain to the sport in question.
you just can’t get a scholarship or play on the university’s team in the case of some.
"all the way" by ro307805 on dec 9, 2010 6:04 pm est up reply actions and allow him to play immediately.
by dshnarw on dec 8, 2010 4:02 pm est up reply actions buzz baker on kanter situation did anyone else hear that baker was told by uk officials that uk is confident on a favorable appeal on kanter with the ncaa?
by kywineman on dec 7, 2010 11:30 pm est up reply actions
the member institutions can make the guidelines for the ncaa to follow by hearing the appeal.
it was my understanding that wall had to pay the money back before he would start serving his suspension of 2 games.
this is the only tangible benefit enes received, an education paid for by a professional basketball team.
i am talking appearances since we do not get all of the decision making rationale.
if we retain some young guys from this year and return miller and liggins as senoirs.
what we do not know is if the ncaa is likely to apply that “too much” standard differently based on the source of the income, or if there is some bright line they have in mind.
a sea of blue -- kentucky sports for the discerning fan by glenn logan on dec 8, 2010 7:37 am est up reply actions hands when they make theirs.
by dshnarw on dec 7, 2010 1:18 pm est reply actions not some number they pull out of their backsides when it suits them.
:-) a sea of blue -- kentucky sports for the discerning fan by glenn logan on dec 8, 2010 1:16 pm est up reply actions by nyccats on dec 8, 2010 2:57 pm est up reply actions nick by kansasukcat on dec 8, 2010 4:22 pm est up reply actions community blog posts and discussion.
if that’s not good enough proof to the ncaa that kanter meant to stay amateur, then no player good enough to enter a european or south american club system (the only developmental system available to them) will ever be able to play.
display: expanded collapsed is the standards set in another
the reality, though, is that the member universities are the ones who elect the body and pay their salary.
but it’s hard to make a solid argument without understanding the issues on both sides of the case.
now, if the member institutions get up in arms about some enforcement action in enough numbers, it will matter.
or merely pocketing the change.
“and yes, the ncaa did in fact recommend to the appeals committee that they overturn the ruling and allow kanter to play.”
but then i decided to make sure i was correct.
that’s the same as retaining amateur status in golf — you may participate in a professional event and win prize money, as long as you don’t accept the cash.
by dshnarw on dec 8, 2010 1:20 pm est up reply actions by uk1972 on dec 8, 2010 1:31 pm est up reply actions par for the course with the ncaa,
by a2d2 on dec 8, 2010 5:50 pm est up reply actions certainly makes for an interesting scenario.
this has been discussed at length in comment threads, but these diverse opinions need to be tied together into one coherent whole.
unfortunately, as eric crawford of the courier-journal wrote recently, it  is hard to know what ball to keep our eyes on.
no freaking way the ncaa can keep track of it.
consider the fact that trajan langdon played four years of basketball at duke while receiving hundreds of thousands of dollars from professional baseball.
it is a significantly greater amount of money received.
by dshnarw on dec 8, 2010 7:50 pm est up reply actions was a presentation of the most basic case they could make for logically deeming him ineligible without being too definitive.
plus if there is a lockout he may need to stay.
that’s fine, i’m used to that, but all i’m asking you to do is demonstrate some reasonable evidence of impropriety.
i admit, i drink the blue-aid when it comes to football, but i am a basketball realist.
in the us, this is easier to trace (probably why the us players i listed have higher listed earnings-