we put our resources to work for you by providing the best nba sports handicapping service with over 20 years of expertise.
the end result is that we will have the opportunity to provide you with more plays.
all rights reserved.
we don't claim to lock in a winner every single day, but we can assure you  through meticulous research backed by 2 decades of sports handicapping  experience, we will produce consistent winners.
for over 2 decades in handicapping sports events, you can depend on  sportrends to provide researched college football plays.
our nfl monthly picks packages includes: · 4 weeks of nfl regular season · 4 nfl monday games · 3 nfl thursday games · 3 nfl saturday games receive 30 days of expert pro football action at a fraction of the cost - only$149.95!
any use  of this information in violation of any federal, state or local laws is  strictly prohibited.
for over 2 decades in handicapping sports events, you can depend on sportrends to provide researched college football plays.
no portion of this website may be reproduced or redistributed without prior express written consent of sportrends, inc.
this will make the service more efficient, allow more time for handicapping, and preserve the value of certain handicapping information longer.
monthly picks packages includes: · 4 weeks of ncaa regular season · mid week plays · money line ·
playoffs receive 30 days of expert pro basketball action at a fraction of the cost -  only$149.95!
we will not release  a game to customers unless we know that we have the latest crucial handicapping  information.
what to expect from sportrends
since 1987  we have set new standards of integrity, customer service, and customer  satisfaction in the sports service industry.
we believe there's never a "lock" on baseball and the only way  to win is through rock-solid handicapping, good money management and  reliable information.
playoffs receive 30 days of expert col basketball action at a fraction of the cost - only$149.95!
so team up with us  this season.
the aim of our service is to make you money.
we also recommend experimenting with different sports-books, some move lines faster than others, so see what works best for you.
our ncaa bb monthly picks packages includes: · 4 weeks of ncaa regular season ·
our mlb monthly picks packages includes: · 4 weeks of baseball regular season ·
play delivery all plays will be delivered with a line constraint or specified pitcher.
sides receive 30 days of expert col football action at a fraction of the cost -  only$149.95!
with over 2 decades of expertise in the field of sports handicapping we can make this all possible for you.
our mlb monthly picks packages includes: · 4 weeks of  baseball regular season ·
we are confident our proven method will yield the highest possible return on your investment.
our experience has been to make your plays 15 20 minutes prior to game time to let lines settle out.
sportrends is a highly selective sports service.
our experience has  been to make your plays 15 – 20 minutes prior to game time to let lines
monthly picks packages includes: · 4 weeks of ncaa  regular season · mid week plays ·
with over 2 decades of experience in handicapping sports events, we know exactly what is required to beat the odds-makers.
line movement & sports-books
we urge you to pay close attention to them.
so if you’re looking for a  no-nonsense, highly profitable approach to sports betting, look no further .
with over 2 decades of experience in handicapping sports events, we know  exactly what is required to beat the odds-makers.
release times & placing your wagers release times may vary day to day depending on the sport, betting market  and how quickly sports-books post lines with full limits.
no write-ups all our sports selections will not  include a write-up.
we will not release a game to customers unless we know that we have the latest crucial handicapping information.
we don't claim to lock in a winner every single day, but we can assure you through meticulous research backed by 2 decades of sports handicapping experience, we will produce consistent winners.
our nfl monthly picks packages includes: · 4 weeks of nfl  regular season · 4 nfl monday  games · 3 nfl saturday  games receive 30 days of expert pro football action at a fraction of the cost -  only$149.95!
no portion of this website may be reproduced or  redistributed without prior express written consent of sportrends, inc.
release times & placing your wagers release times may vary day to day depending on the sport, betting market and how quickly sports-books post lines with full limits.
© 1987 sportrends inc.
© 1987 college and pro football prophet.
we also recommend experimenting  with different sports-books, some move lines faster than others, so see what  works best for you.
our ncaa bb monthly picks packages includes: · 4 weeks of ncaa  regular season · playoffs receive 30 days of expert col basketball action at a fraction of the cost -  only$149.95!
it is essential to optimize yourself and be prepared to place wagers immediately upon release in order to take full advantage of this service.
we put our resources to work for you by providing the best nba sports  handicapping service with over 20 years of expertise.
you receive 30 days of expert action on every sport depending on the season.
with over 2 decades of expertise in the field of sports  handicapping we can make this all possible for you.
we urge you to pay close  attention to them.
our nba monthly picks packages includes: · 4 weeks of nba  regular season ·
join now our prices are very affordable and will remain that way because of our high volume traffic.
so team up with us this season.
we believe there's never a "lock" on baseball and the only way to win is through rock-solid handicapping, good money management and reliable information.
this will make the service more efficient, allow more time  for handicapping, and preserve the value of certain handicapping information  longer.
order | software overview | free software | download stats | free software |premium internet service | free daily picks team stats |  vegas odds | sports links | advertising | contact us | home © 1987 sportrends inc.
play delivery all plays will be  delivered with a line constraint or specified pitcher.
our nba monthly picks packages includes: · 4 weeks of nba regular season ·
it is essential to  optimize yourself and be prepared to place wagers immediately upon release in  order to take full advantage of this service.
by being more selective we are better able to produce a high win percentage and are a service that can be utilized with confidence.
you receive 30 days of expert action on  every sport depending on the season.
by being more selective we are better able to produce a high win  percentage and are a service that can be utilized with confidence.
playoffs receive 30 days of expert pro basketball action at a fraction of the cost - only$149.95!
so if youre looking for a no-nonsense, highly profitable approach to sports betting, look no further .
sides receive 30 days of expert col football action at a fraction of the cost - only$149.95!
the end result is that we will have the opportunity to provide you with  more plays.
no write-ups all our sports selections will not include a write-up.
join now our prices are very affordable and will remain that way  because of our high volume traffic.
we are confident our  proven method will yield the highest possible return on your investment.
the aim of our service is to  make you money.
football, basketball and baseball are all included with this package where applicable.
since 1987 we have set new standards of integrity, customer service, and customer satisfaction in the sports service industry.
football, basketball and baseball are all included with this package where  applicable.
ready to really win the big money, sportrends presents the following sports investment packages!
if you're a sports investor...
any use of this information in violation of any federal, state or local laws is strictly prohibited.