you are here: home / track & field  /800m-mile / plyometrics better than conventional strength training?
this results in faster times, at least in theory.
armchair coaches: i’ll bet a lot of you would like to see a 4th group with both plyometrics and conventional weight training!
speedendurance.com success in track & field ... and life here is some research (which i would normally post on the facebook fan page ), but since it is from my old mcgill backyard at the university of montreal (otherwise known as u of m) , i feel i should give them some exposure.
you'll also get coaching manuals from tom tellez, loren seagrave and dan pfaff.
plyometrics better than conventional strength training?
single legsquats, single leg deadlifts, quartersquats e.t.c are more specific to the sprinting motion than squats and bench.
paul grahamreply [...]
if you are interested in the two landmark studies on plyometric effects on distance running you need to access explosive strength training improves 5-k running time by improving running economy and muscle power; european journal of applied physiology, vol. 86,#5 pp.
squats, bench and olympic lifts have a time and place in a programme, and any world class coach will periodise weight training to peak at the right time, therefore 8 weeks is too short time frame.
filed under: 800m-mile, training, weight training tagged with:  bench, olympic lifts, plyometrics, power, squats, strength training, weight  training
4 weeks, 8 weeks……… and should the mix of each training demand be equal e.g – 1 week hypertrophy, 1 week max strength, 1 week power.
speedendurance (article summarizing research that plyometrics may be better than tradition weight training for distance runners.)
in my coaching here in england, we do just as much weight training sessions as we do plyos, both of which are post track workout (speed).
of course, that extra strength and possible muscle mass must be translated to applying force to the ground while in a running motion.
is it the higher intensity?
so preliminary results suggest plyometrics are better than conventional  strength training?
the argument presented is plyometrics helps with bounding and bounding  lifts you off the ground more efficiently, thus reducing the energy cost of  running for distance runners.
while our sprinters do both plyometrics and conventional weight training (mix of olympic lifts, power lifts – bench andsquats, and regular strength training for ancillary exercises), distance runners could certainly improve on the strength in their legs as well as flexibility (in my opinion).
the bottom line is any improvement in strength and elasticity of your leg  muscles will result in faster running.
results: improvements of 3%, 4.8% and 4.1% for the none, plyometrics and  conventional weight training.
some questions to ponder: this website keeps me busy all week.
288-295, 2002 and maximal strength training improves work economy in trained female cross-country skiers, med & science in sports & exercise, vol. 31, #6, pp.
is it from higher cns stimulus?
some questions to ponder: is it more running specific?
how about lee evans famous "train with pain" 400 meter training from stan dowell?name: we respect your email privacy
so preliminary results suggest plyometrics are better than conventional strength training?
i can see the resistance (no pun intended) in a distance runner doing free weights in the weight room, but keeping plyometrics fun while doing low hurdle hops and stadium stairs can be more beneficial!
following up on this study, rob spurrs used australian distance runners for his study the effects of plyometric training on distance running performance; european journal of applied physiology, vol 89, #1 pp.1-7, 2003.
while our sprinters do both plyometrics and conventional weight training  (mix of olympic lifts, power lifts – bench andsquats, and regular  strength training for ancillary exercises), distance runners could certainly  improve on the strength in their legs as well as flexibility (in my opinion).
the article also doesnt state reps, sets and recoveries between reps and sessions.
the bottom line is any improvement in strength and elasticity of your leg muscles will result in faster running.
paul graham, http://www.speed-development.co.uk “where athletes come to achieve greatness”
the coaches of asafa powell & usain bolt!.
you guys have the best articles.
this study used actual competitive distance runners in finland.
you may also want to read strength and power for maximum speed as it details all the background information on why max strength, elastic strength and explosive strength improve speed at all velocities and gives detailed explanations of the exercises found to be best for getting this training effect.
results: improvements of 3%, 4.8% and 4.1% for the none, plyometrics and conventional weight training.
i am open to suggestions particularly when it comes to strength training so feel free to challenge me on my philosophies.
the second study showed an average 3k improvement by 16.6 seconds(2.7%)in plyo group while control group had no change in times.
reply i do feel a mix on the percentage level, from base season through the end of the competitive season.
is the better way to go.
progressing an young or older athlete, from the ground up, to that finely tuned and sprinting machine, vrooomreply i agree calvin, but how long should each cycle last?
as for wondering what max strength training would add to the plyo work for distance runners you need to check out maximal strength training improves aerobic endurance performance; scandinavian journal of med & science in sports, vol. 12, pp.
the first study showed dramatic improvements in running economy (8%), max velocity (4%) and 5k race performance (30 second improvements in the plyo group,no change in control group).
the original study looked at performances over 5k while the subsequent study looked at 3k performance.
of course, that extra strength and  possible muscle mass must be translated to applying force to the ground while  in a running motion.
july 1, 2010  byjimson lee 6 comments share here is some research (which i would normally post on the facebook fan page ), but since it is from my old mcgill backyard at the university of montreal  (otherwise known as u of m) , i feel i should give them some exposure.
or should we spending more time on a particular demand given a particular time of the seasoin?
this results in faster times, at least in  theory.
i can see the resistance (no pun intended) in a distance runner doing free  weights in the weight room, but keeping plyometrics fun while doing low hurdle  hops and stadium stairs can be more beneficial!
is asymmetrical training better (in the weight room,  machines can have a fixed range of motion, thus free weights are preferred)
vs control data: 3 control groups (no plyos nor weight training, plyometrics  and conventional weight training), 35 subjects, 3000m time trials, running  economy tests before and after an 8 week training period.
[...]reply name * email * website notify me of followup comments via e-mail return to top of page copyright © 2012 powered by eshop v.4 sign up for the free monthly newsletter today and receive clyde hart's new 60 page manual on sprints and relays and the 36 page jamaican sprint secrets with insights to stephen francis and glen mills...
the argument presented is plyometrics helps with bounding and bounding lifts you off the ground more efficiently, thus reducing the energy cost of running for distance runners.
for all i know it could have been hypertrophy, max strength, power and/or power endurance.
vs control data: 3 control groups (no plyos nor weight training, plyometrics and conventional weight training), 35 subjects, 3000m time trials, running economy tests before and after an 8 week training period.
plyo group also made significant improvements in running economy at 3 different speeds (12k/hour 6.7%, 14k/hr 6.4%, and 4.1% at 16k/hour) with no change in control group at these speeds.
reply it doesnt state what weight training exercises were used, and what plyos were used.
armchair coaches: i’ll bet a lot of you would like to see a 4th group  with both plyometrics and conventional weight training!