if you want to tailgate, get festive or watch the vols run through the "t," go to neyland stadium.
we should not compare apples and oranges, otherwise throw in volleyball, soccer, swimming, etc..... in response to dwayneelizondomountaindewherbertcamacho: ya'll wanna blast adams every opportunity you get...and for what reason?
sign up to get breaking vol news on your cell phone.
if you want to see tennessee win a meaningful game, go to thompson-boling arena.
dooley needs to be able to take recruits to tba and have the same atmosphere as when martin takes basketball recruits to neyland.
he may be reached at 865-342-6284 or adamsj@knoxnews.com.
i'm still cautiously optimistic we are going to look a lot better next year.
but then ja has never been accused of trying to "help."
whatever....i will be there rooting like h*ll for dooley to succeed and my vols to win!
the  scoreboards tell you something else.
the degree of difficulty in achieving a major upset in basketball isn't close to pulling off one in football.
no disrespect to ccm but he would be first to admit that his situation is better than dooley's was.
in the 2009-10 season, less than a  couple of weeks after the vols were waylaid by virginia tech in the chick-fil-a  bowl, their basketball team upset no. 1 kansas.
that said, adams left a lot of factors about the differences between the football and basketball programs out of this column.
search in effect until feb 14, 4:00 a.m. issued for blount smoky mountains photo by amy smotherman burgess, ©kns/2011 // buy this photo tennessee's jordan mcrae shoots over florida's mike rosario on saturday, jan. 7, 2012.
gbo would fans prefer both teams sucked?
the entire nation still laughs at dooley's loss to the worst kentucky team in decades, and that was before kentucky had to play a 4th string wide receiver as quarterback - but still upset a double-digit favored tennessee!
the scoreboards tell you something else.
i don't know why he is waiting, but the damage being done daily is growing and i don't blame the kids.
maybe ut's football team will have a new defensive coordinator by then.
web search powered by yahoo!
"we know how good  they are.
here's the truth, geek:
but when the gators knocked, the vols rocked.
so you can get up in the morning and deliver the paper!
dooley will be here next year.
in fair comparison, dooley has lost to the two worst florida football teams in the past three decades.
ut's 67-56 victory will resonate beyond basketball.
by the way, is he anywhere near retirement?
sure, it's apples and big oranges.
you thought it a good article; i thought it drivel.
they played well  today and deserved to win."
the vols will have a couple of chances to enhance their reputation for  upsets in the next week.
basketball is upstaging football and it's because we have a basketball coach who coaches rather than obsesses over his outfit and spends most of his time coming up with creative metaphors to explain the most recent blowout.
he was too busy plying his trade at court-side.
they will play at mississippi state on thursday before taking on kentucky at thompson-boling two days later.
he said more than once in his postgame analysis that when you don't execute, the opponent often has a big hand in it.
in the 2009-10 season, less than a couple of weeks after the vols were waylaid by virginia tech in the chick-fil-a bowl, their basketball team upset no. 1 kansas.
he doesn't make excuse after excuse for his failings...he coaches and he does it well.
he's had two years to make his mark on this program and it's worse than it was when he took it over.
in basketball, they have won 12 of the last 19 meetings.
the truth hurts, doesn't it?
related videos kenny hall on his season-high against florida cuonzo martin on ut's win over florida
i was and am willing to give dooley a reasonable chance and i think next year will be enough time to make a valid judgment about him.
ya'll wanna blast adams every opportunity you get...and for what reason?
the only place i might differ is what a good 2012 season might suggest.
the national coaches convention is this weekend
right now the ut football program is a joke and the major reason is that we have a joker running it.
their superiority was  so apparent in upping the lead to 16 points, i wondered if martin would be  accused of running up the score.
i often wonder if he receives a check from lsu.
in response to atlannavol: this is a good article and a good take on what's happening with ut athletics.
to his credit, donovan didn't attribute the outcome solely to his team's inadequate play.
and jayson blair formerly of the new york times has more credibility than john adams,in my opinon...and no, i didn't have to read the ja drivel to have this opinion...the headline was enough.
in response to owensborovol: and if dooley doesn't hire a couple of defensive coaches soon this recruiting season will be a lost cause.
reset your password comment comments can be shared on facebook and yahoo!.
i think they're better than their record shows.
"you have to give the other team credit when you don't necessarily do  the things that you want to do," he said.
his presence contrasted sharply with that of florida coach billy donovan,  who sat through the last five minutes as lifeless as a weary  commercial-airlines traveler waiting on an overdue jet.
florida forward erik murphy dismissed another possible excuse by saying ut's early-season struggles didn't burden the gators with overconfidence.
he did inherit a bad situation, and i don't think a 3-5 year window to get us back to somewhere in the 9 win mark is too much to ask.
it's funny though, because i bet that if he amazingly succeeds next season, it will be because he's such a wonderful coach...
tennessee's 2012 football signees.
if you want to tailgate, get festive or watch the vols run through the  "t," go to neyland stadium.
in 2005, when a ut team picked to contend for a national title was trying  to figure out how it finished 5-6, bruce pearl's first ut basketball team beat  sixth-ranked texas by 17 points in austin.
this day's basketball success is not enhanced by comparing it to the football team, nor..is there any valid point in making the comparison to begin with.
the basketball program this year isn't in as bad of shape as the football program was when derek dooley took over.
that has nothing to do with football, pat summitt's medical condition, the swim coach's situation, or todd raleigh's record at baseball.
the gators sometimes looked as helpless in the second half as ut's football team once did trying to defend tim tebow and percy harvin, reminding you that tennessee's basketball rivalry with florida has become the antithesis of the vols vs. gators in football.
atlannavol, thanks for your mature and reasoned response.
and i'm not just talking about the women.
that will tell us a very great deal.
their superiority was so apparent in upping the lead to 16 points, i wondered if martin would be accused of running up the score.
he said more  than once in his postgame analysis that when you don't execute, the opponent  often has a big hand in it.
the ut basketball program doesn't just prop up its football buddies against  florida.
you aren't surprised at his tone and message, but like so many others i'm quite sick of it.
it took new coach  cuonzo martin one sec game to register a bigger victory than two different  tennessee football coaches have managed in the last three seasons.
i know the position coaches and coordinators play a big part in the decisions a lot of kids make, but i want a kid that is coming to tennessee for all of the things we fans and alumni love about the volunteers.
the crack at the end about the d coordinator is especially dumb.
the gators sometimes looked as helpless in the second half as ut's football  team once did trying to defend tim tebow and percy harvin, reminding you that  tennessee's basketball rivalry with florida has become the antithesis of the  vols vs. gators in football.
all they know is they attended a  sporting event on the ut campus and didn't return home with their stomachs  churning.
the vols were all over the gators before the end of the first half, leading  by four before pulling away in the last 20 minutes.
the ut basketball program doesn't just prop up its football buddies against florida.
but don't  bother ut fans with such trivial matters.
martin probably didn't notice or care, but his ten nessee fan club was growing by the basket saturday.
in response to vut5686#1405392: what mindless drivel.
yesterday was a great win for the vols and it has nothing to do with the football situation.
i guess we can continue to lose recruits to south carolina, like diggs, because we are waiting for some reason that no one knows including the head coach i believe.
the few dool-aid drinkers left are struggling to find a position to defend, and want to have it both ways hoping something will just magically happen.
as for failure....just how might you define that?
great win for coach zo, no need to pile on cdd!!!
the sheer size of neyland stadium tells you this is a football town.
i think most everybody knows dooley is just about out of excuses if he doesn't get it done next year, whatever "get it done" means in the context of recent ut football.
accurate article, this has been going on for years, where it's taken basketball for us to have something to really cheer about.
if, as you say, he amazingly succeeds, how would that not be a result of good coaching and recruiting?
i think erin chapin is at the top of her game.
follow him at http://twitter.com/johnadamskns.
should it not end there, each of us having made his (her's or it's) point?
they were muddling along at 7-7 when the 13th-ranked  florida gators came knocking on their door saturday morning.
this win was was huge for their confidence and hopefully a nice building block for the rest of the season.
to his credit, donovan  didn't attribute the outcome solely to his team's inadequate play.
the basketball team played hard and got a good win.
the vols were all over the gators before the end of the first half, leading by four before pulling away in the last 20 minutes.
"we know how good they are.
a basketball team is to a football team as a bass boat is to a supertanker....much easier to turn around.
this material may not  be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
this is a good article and a good take on what's happening with ut athletics.
ut fans were reminded again saturday that they can count on basketball  — even when they think they can't.
to my mind that would be progress and perhaps dooley gets the benefit of the doubt.
if you can't handle it, maybe you should watch some poker or something?
last week a multiple...or two..of this many registered their view of a mere freshman leaving the football program; one out of 85..or so.
you can't have it both ways.
dude, you and adams need to look at the calendar.
in response to dwayneelizondomountaindewherbertcamacho: "the basketball program this year isn't in as bad of shape as the football program was when derek dooley took over."
hope this makes you happy, a-hoe!
florida forward erik murphy dismissed another possible excuse by saying  ut's early-season struggles didn't burden the gators with overconfidence.
and i think most would agree that the, "we inherited a tough situation" excuse is over in 2012.
but suppose he gets to just 7-6 with a bowl win?
in 2005, when a ut team picked to contend for a national title was trying to figure out how it finished 5-6, bruce pearl's first ut basketball team beat sixth-ranked texas by 17 points in austin.
as for you--vut5686#1405392--you're just a bitter little s---t who needs to get a life.
kentucky, on the other hand raised real concerns.
in response to bigger_al: eff adams.
they will play at mississippi state on thursday before  taking on kentucky at thompson-boling two days later.
the vols will have a couple of chances to enhance their reputation for upsets in the next week.
that is you and adams.
but don't bother ut fans with such trivial matters.
the ut men are rebuilding under a new coach.
in response to futurecoach16: the truth hurts, doesn't it?
a great effort and showing!
i could debate you on my already having "gotten a good life," residing in other than a hole and probably having been grown up before you were born; however, like adams, you obviously don't know proper language; just profanity and nonsense.
keep up the good work john.
the degree of difficulty in achieving a  major upset in basketball isn't close to pulling off one in football.
if the new guys are who we need them to be, many if not all of the decommits will come back.
now, as the vols sit out another bowl season, the basketball team has  managed to do two things in one day that the football program can't: beat a  nationally ranked team and beat florida.
their last outing was a  lopsided loss to memphis.
frankly dwayne, i think most fans are simply looking for progress.
i don't know what hole these creeps have crawled out from, but i wish they'd get the hell off this site so grown up fans can stay tuned to ut sports.
i'm absolutely thrilled for martin and this team to get this great win over a very good florida team.
we will have a better season next year.
and if dooley doesn't hire a couple of defensive coaches soon this recruiting season will be a lost cause.
the vols didn't just beat the gators.
but tuscaloosa john decides to take a 'feel good' win and put a sour spin on it.
tennessee downs florida for first sec win see all 17 photos at full size the sheer size of neyland stadium tells you this is a football town.
if you are saying failure would be another losing season of 5 or less wins, then i would agree with you, it's a bad statement on the coaching.
all they know is they attended a sporting event on the ut campus and didn't return home with their stomachs churning.
but if he fails, well...then it will be because the program was in such a horrible state when he took it over.
his presence contrasted sharply with that of florida coach billy donovan, who sat through the last five minutes as lifeless as a weary commercial-airlines traveler waiting on an overdue jet.
very unprofessional article!!!
however, consider: thus far, 256 readers have logged in to this site, with mostly positive comments.
for now, let's see who we get in here to fill the coaching vacancies and just where we end with this recruiting class.
because he isn't a gigantic orange pompom waiver for derek dooley?
this year could hardly be viewed as that, but perhaps the injuries to hunter and bray have given dooley a bit of an out in that regard.
he may be reached at 865-342-6284 or  adamsj@knoxnews.com.
© 2012, knoxville news sentinel co. want to use this article?
heaping garbage on them is totally unhelpful.....
but i didnt see this one coming....
some people with long memories and a tendency toward bitterness and negativity will hold that uk loss against him even if he wins the sec east next year, but most fans won't.
username * don't have an account?
well, adams, that wasn't worth the time to read.
but i really dont see the point in this article....
and i'm not just talking about the  women.
© 2012 govolsxtra.com.
now, as the vols sit out another bowl season, the basketball team has managed to do two things in one day that the football program can't: beat a nationally ranked team and beat florida.
i dont slam on john adams
in response to snakeplissken: the few dool-aid drinkers left are struggling to find a position to defend, and want to have it both ways hoping something will just magically happen.
view vol photo galleries and maybe order some copies for yourself!
what mindless drivel.
football season is over and now we are in the basketball mode.
they played well today and deserved to win."
participate in our sports talk radio show!
this material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
their last outing was a lopsided loss to memphis.
basketball trumps football?
we've been without a defensive coordinator for one week, but florida still hasn't named a replacement for charlie weis and he took the kansas job dec. 8.
congratulations and thanks vols!!!
florida's casey prather actually fell to the floor and injured his ankle as ut's cam tatum changed directions on the dribble.
a good basketball program is good for the football team, just as a good football team is good for the basketball program.
john adams is a miserable pos!
go to bed you little s---t
in response to fwbvol: the national coaches convention is this weekend
they shot better, defended  harder and seemed vastly more interested in the outcome.
martin may not lead ut to a final four (or maybe he will, who knows) but he doesn't throw his kids under the bus.
it also takes the heat off them during the bowl season.
sign up for a new account password * can't remember?
you agree not to post comments that are off topic, defamatory, obscene, abusive, threatening or an invasion of privacy.
and pretty soon we might, just might...discover that he's a champion.
the only valid excuse he will have is if he loses 15-20 guys to injuries in the preseason.
the other kns guys are pretty good.
in  basketball, they have won 12 of the last 19 meetings.
the knowledgeable vol fans recognize that martin inherited a total mess, with ncaa sanctions, yet in his first year takes a much less talented bunch and gets his signature win over a ranked florida team!
add both options by connecting your profiles.
in fact, he was still barking commands in the last two  minutes, although the victory had been tucked away.
fact of the matter is, the football team is painful to watch, and the basketball team is a nice change, despite the record.
if you want to see tennessee win a  meaningful game, go to thompson-boling arena.
this was a great win.
and football, like basketball just a handful of years back, will turn around.
he was too busy plying  his trade at court-side.
lots of us like some things, if not all things, about dooley's personality and demeanor, and no reasonable person can fault his progress in rebuilding the program's overall numbers and depth if he can get most of this year's pretty good class nailed down.
in football, the vols have lost seven consecutive games to florida.
i wish i could think of something nasty to post about how sorry john adams is.
such pointless non-writing just trivialized both programs...without a valid reason or punch line.
nope, i will leave the lectern to you; you earn it with your erudition.
in fact, he was still barking commands in the last two minutes, although the victory had been tucked away.
as long as the new guys are on board a couple of weeks before nsd--and if anybody has heard of them nationally, of course--i'm not too worried about the effect the void is having on recruits right now.
ut fans were reminded again saturday that they can count on basketball — even when they think they can't.
pointless non-writing?!?
you need to let it go, brother.
john aaaaaaaalways tries to shade the light beaming on the volunteers.
so i imagine derek dooley will be making a few announcements by monday or tuesday.
feels like: 32° humidity: 72% precip: 74% feels like: 40° humidity: 82% precip: 7% feels like: 42° humidity: 77% precip: 5% try govols247's forums for free.
"we play tennessee every year," he said.
click here for our full user agreement.
you two together are not going to change the way things are and you sure as heck will not change the coaching staff at tennessee.
i wouldn't come to a school where i didn't know who my position coach or coordinator was either.
download kns game photos of the vols as your desktop wallpaper
are you that stupid, or are you a lap puppy for adams?
they were muddling along at 7-7 when the 13th-ranked florida gators came knocking on their door saturday morning.
does ja think this is just good insight and that fans will appreciate his sterling analysis???
nobody will continue to give dooley the benefit of the doubt, whatever they may think about him personally, unless he has more on-field success next year.
click here for options!
"you have to give the other team credit when you don't necessarily do the things that you want to do," he said.
florida's casey  prather actually fell to the floor and injured his ankle as ut's cam tatum  changed directions on the dribble.
what is to be gained in that?
uses a basketball win as an excuse to keep pouring salt in the wounds of ut fans.
comments are the sole responsibility of the person posting them.
there were a lot of angles to journalistically cover this game...
they shot better, defended harder and seemed vastly more interested in the outcome.
i doubt it, and i'm sure dooley is happy for coach martin.
and, as a rule, there are usually more upsets in basketball than football.
the current pathetic state of ut football is due to derek dooley's lack of leadership.
violators may be banned.
a photo by amy smotherman burgess, ©kns/2011 // buy this photo tennessee's jordan mcrae shoots over florida's mike rosario on saturday,  jan. 7, 2012.
completely unnecessary negativity from adams.
but why use this to further beat up the football program?
ut won the sec opener 67-56.(amy smotherman burgess/news sentinel)
john adams is a senior columnist.
it took new coach cuonzo martin one sec game to register a bigger victory than two different tennessee football coaches have managed in the last three seasons.
"the basketball program this year isn't in as bad of shape as the football program was when derek dooley took over."