while commissioner john marinatto said in a statement monday the league  would consider a model with 12 football members, part of tuesday’s call  was discussing the possibility of splitting the football and basketball  conference into divisions, once the football side is replenished.
what make temple, smu and houston attractive to the big east, one source said, is their respective television markets.
navy, air force and boise state are being considered as football members only, while ucf, temple, houston and smu are at the top of the list as all-sports members so it’s unknown right now how large the basketball membership could grow.
philadelphia (temple) is the nation’s
beyond navy, air force and ucf, a league source said “no one team is  definitely next” as an expansion candidate.
[ reply to comment ] secrocks1 reputation: 89
among those mentioned were ucf, air force, navy, temple, houston, smu and boise state, a league source told cbssports.com.
however, others believe boise state, located nearly 700 miles west of air force and nearly 2,200 miles from tampa/usf, is simply too far to consider.
follow me on twitter: @mcmurphycbs subscribe to this blog recent blog entries mcmurphy's law cbssports.com
that seems to have been the case
east carolina would be a great choice for the be, and definitely an asset to the league.
eye on football, 03/10/12 11:41 am mcmurphy's law's tags brett mcmurphy's favorites - big east (70) - big 12 (46) - west virginia (40) - houston (31) - syracuse (31) - boise state (30) - louisville (30) - sec (30) - pittsburgh (27) - ucf (27) - acc (21) - navy (21) - smu (21) - tcu (20) - oklahoma (19) - air force (18) - oklahoma state (17) - rutgers (17) - byu (16) - cincinnati (15) - alabama (14) - big ten (14) - lsu (14) - missouri (14) - texas (14) - uconn (14) - nebraska (13) - temple (13) - memphis (12) - south florida (12) - arkansas (11) - baylor (11) - florida (11) - kansas state (11) - notre dame (11) - texas a&m (11) - clemson (10) - john marinatto (10) - mike slive (10) - mountain west (10) - ohio state (10) - san diego state (10) - southern miss (10) - virginia tech (10) - bcs (9) - conference usa (9) - florida state (9) - michigan (9) - stanford (9) - auburn (8) - ncaa (8) - pac-12 (8) - penn state (8) - south carolina (8) - usc (8) - georgia tech (7) - michigan state (7) - oregon (7) - akron (6) - georgia (6) - mac (6) - marshall (6) - miami (6) - mississippi state (6) - tennessee (6) - tulane (6) - uab (6) - duke (5) - east carolina (5) - iowa (5) - maryland (5) - n.c. state (5) - new mexico (5) - sun belt (5) - tulsa (5) - utep (5) - villanova (5) - wac (5) - wisconsin (5) - army (4) - colorado (4) - colorado state (4) - georgetown (4) - kentucky (4) - les miles (4) - marquette (4) - minnesota (4) - north carolina (4) - oliver luck (4) - providence (4) - seton hall (4) - texas tech (4) - tom holmoe (4) - unlv (4) - utah (4) - vanderbilt (4) - virginia (4) - washington (4) - atlantic 10 (3) - bobby petrino (3) no favorites
and everyone knows that ecu brings the crowds to bowl games (when they get into them).
no. 4 market, dallas (smu) is no. 5 and houston is no. 10.
the presidents, chancellors and athletic directors continued to discuss potential expansion candidates.
but ecu (just like any other team) would get better because of the beast rep. in sports kids would want to play against the uconns, wvu, usf (ecu would love to beat them because of skip hotlz).
[ reply to comment ] wvulax39 reputation:
boise state president bob kustra said in a statement monday that the  broncos “are looking forward to their inaugural season” in the  mountain west conference and he “has great confidence in the future  direction of the mountain west.”
if the powers that be in the big east can't see this diamond in the rough, then they are certainly the epitome of "can't see the forest for the trees"!
stream saturday and sunday on cbs: the masters live on cbs sports network: tim brando show search - fantasy - nfl - mlb - nba - nhl - college fb - college bb - golf - nascar - tennis - high school - more sports - video - community - tv - mobile - shop games the official fantasy baseball commissioner game of mlb.com.
and bring up app st to d1 or the fbs whatever they call it now.
put wvu in the east this year and they are competing for a shot at the sec championship game.
just think, what if any other team in north carolina cared about football.
pm - eye on football blog has a new home!
i guess i'm foolish then.
the presidents, chancellors and athletic directors continued to discuss  potential expansion candidates.
ecu has a very nice stadium, great sports fans, and a very convienient location for big east fans.
big east plotting football, hoops divisions in the end, wvu lost.
a league source also told cbssports.com that army is no longer being considered as a candidate by the big east.
who cares if wvu got their yards through the air?
boise state president bob kustra said in a statement monday that the broncos “are looking forward to their inaugural season” in the mountain west conference and he “has great confidence in the future direction of the mountain west.”
that is something sleepy might say over.... and over... and over...
to make all those attempts means you have no running game (or at least that night....and you're behind in the scoreboard)...all night.
a league source also told cbssports.com that army is no longer being  considered as a candidate by the big east.
navy, air force and boise state are being considered as football members  only, while ucf, temple, houston and smu are at the top of the list as  all-sports members so it’s unknown right now how large the basketball  membership could grow.
beyond navy, air force and ucf, a league source said “no one team is definitely next” as an expansion candidate.
“while we are certainly flattered to be mentioned in connection with other conferences and we hold those leagues in high regard, our current focus is on continuing to build the outstanding athletic programs that have helped make boise state a popular and compelling national brand," kustra said.
every team lsu has played from behind.
central fantasy news and analysis - fantasy football player news, rankings, projections - fantasy baseball player news, rankings, projections - fantasy basketball player news, rankings, projections - fantasy hockey player news, rankings, projections - nfl home - draft - scores - standings - schedules - stats - teams - players - transactions - free agents - injuries - experts - video - message board - rapidreports - blog - fantasy news - mlb home - scores - standings - schedules - stats - teams - players - transactions - injuries - experts - video - message board - fantasy news - blog - nba home - scores - playoff picture - standings - schedules - stats - teams - players - transactions - injuries - experts - video - message board - fantasy news - blog - nhl home - scores - playoff picture - standings - schedules - stats - teams - players - transactions - injuries - video - message board - fantasy news - blog - college fb home - scores - standings - schedules - stats - teams - players - rankings - experts - video - message board - rapidreports - recruiting - spring practices - blog - college bb home - brackets - scores - standings - schedules - stats - teams - players - rankings - experts - picks - video - rapidreports - message board - recruiting - blog - golf home - masters - leaderboard - schedules - players - stats - expert picks - video - message board - course guide - blog - nascar home - sprint cup - nationwide - trucks - teams - tracks - video - message board - blog - tennis home - scores - schedules - rankings - players - message board - high school home - football recruiting - hoops recruiting - football rankings - hoops rankings - girls volleyball rankings - girls volleyball teams - bowling - boxing - horse racing - ufc - site index - cbs sports - cbs sports network - showtime - cbssports.com shop - nfl shop - mlb shop - nhl shop - college apparel - nba store - dvd store - auctions - memorabilia - video home - masters live - ulive - live college games - fantasy baseball 360 - conversations with cbs sports - a game of honor - tim brando show - community home - my profile - my blog - groups - my settings -
why not just take the refguees from the dead beast and add them to the "new" mwc......semantics.
“they’ve been honest  with us and that they’re not interested because of the challenges they  had previously in conference usa,” the source said.
name: private  gender:  member since: may  23, 2011 email: private  favorite teams big east plotting football, hoops divisions posted on: october 11,  2011 1:50 pm officials from what’s left of the big east’s dwindling football  membership had another conference call on tuesday morning and there remains no  specific timetable on adding ucf, but “appears an invitation is  forthcoming” for the knights, the league’s no. 1 target.
and i are moving scott miller's bull pennings, 03/10/12 3:17
just imagine them taking what sagarin rates the 6th best team in north carolina behind unc, wake forest, duke, nc state and appalachian state.
my account - member search - blog search - about community brett mcmurphy mcmurphy's law name: private gender: member since: may 23, 2011 email: private favorite teams big east plotting football, hoops divisions posted on: october 11, 2011 1:50
[ reply to comment ] bbwvfan reputation: 99 level: superstar since: oct 26, 2006 posted on: october 12, 2011 8:52 am score: 110 big east plotting football, hoops divisions irrelevant?
while commissioner john marinatto said in a statement monday the league would consider a model with 12 football members, part of tuesday’s call was discussing the possibility of splitting the football and basketball conference into divisions, once the football side is replenished.
east carolina has won 2 of the last 3 cusa football championships, is nc's second largest university, has a basketball team that is getting better, a consistently good baseball team, cusa titles in other sports, packs 50,000+ in the football stadium on a dreary day with a down year team, is a foothold in a state with 4 acc schools, has a fan base across the state, is actually in the eastern us, and there is not much mention here about them.
(actually 1 td from 1 yard, so 59 produced nothing) are you beginning to see the domination?
put them in the west in the early-mid 2000's
lsu is #2 in forced turnovers for the ncaa.
looks like a wash to me.
however, there remains the very real possibility louisville and west virginia may not be in the league and bound for the big 12 if missouri leaves for the sec or the big 12 expands to 12 teams.
the cadets were 9-41 in c-usa play and finished last in the league five of the seven seasons.
you are the one who claimed wvu would get killed in the sec.
their average drive was 60 yards.
ecu is not an easy w. their record this year hasn't been helped by their schedule.
and they are competing for a shot at the sec championship game.
lsu didn't give up those kind of numbers to any other sec team....
i agree they could be a good addition for the big east.
if wvu could amass those kind of stats against the best of the sec, what would they do against the other teams?
so to throw out the term "average at best" is pretty irresponsible.
yeah goldrusher, that would really be a crushing blow to the acc.
posted on: october 12, 2011 9:05 am score: 85 big east plotting football, hoops divisions wow!
7:35 pm - mac reorganizes after temple departure 03/07/12 4:24 pm - big east adds temple as an all sports member 03/07/12 10:38 am - temple to big east after it settles with mac 03/02/12
averaged 50% conversion of possessions into td's so lsu's goal was to pin them back and make them work.
that is a pretty respectable place to be in the sec.
the newark star-ledger reported one proposed alignment discussed at tuesday’s meeting consisted of rutgers, uconn, south florida, ucf, temple and navy in an east division with west virginia, louisville, cincinnati, air force, smu and houston in a west division.
big east plotting football, hoops divisions bbwva whoaaa lil buddy!
not trying to be a smart... but because of the impact of tv on college athletics, your conference idea, while encouraging rivalries, would actually demote all those schools to the level of app st rather than elevate app st.
reputation: 98 level: superstar since: may 5, 2008 posted on: october 12, 2011 9:54 am score: 87
category: ncaaf tags: air force, army, big 12, big east, boise state, cincinnati, houston, louisville, navy, rutgers, south florida, temple, ucf, uconn, west virginia « prev · 1 · 2 · 3 · 4 · 5 · 6 · 7 · 8 · 9 · 10 · next » commentsadd a comment secrocks1 reputation: 89 level: all-star since: nov 3, 2007 posted on: october 12, 2011 11:42 am score: 118 big east plotting football, hoops divisions i agree that ecu has not been productive against the acc schools but ecu does fit the beast profile.
(that means they score a lot of points per drive) lsu had 7 td's vs wva 2 were direct result of turnover one was at the 1 yard line and a punt return.
[ reply to comment ] glide reputation: 80 level: all-star since: oct 12, 2011
the views expressed in this blog are solely those of the author and do not reflect the views of cbs sports or cbssports.com visit other cbs interactive sites select site cbs cares cbs films cbs radio cbs.com cbsinteractive cbsnews.com cbssports.com chow clicker cnet college network find articles gamespot help.com last.fm maxpreps metacritic.com moneywatch mysimon radio.com search.com shopper.com showtime smartplanet techrepublic the insider tv.com urbanbaby.com
you don't understand too much about lsu football, do you??
they have losing records all time against all of those but perennial football power duke, which is 5-5.
[ reply to comment ] clab4tune reputation: 1 level: amateur since: oct 12, 2011 posted on: october 12, 2011 10:37 am score: 63 big east plotting football, hoops divisions i agree
brilliant idea, i'm sure the big east will jump right on it(sarcasm, if it's not obvious).
that's why fans aren't making these decisions.
bergersphere, 03/10/12 1:16
sportsline is a registered service mark of sportsline.com, inc.
the tv market of n carolina, s carolina, virginia, w virginia and maryland would be smaller than the southern conference market of n carolina, s carolina, georgia, tennessee and alabama.
“while we are certainly flattered to be mentioned in connection with  other conferences and we hold those leagues in high regard, our current focus  is on continuing to build the outstanding athletic programs that have helped  make boise state a popular and compelling national brand," kustra said.
oops 2 to's led to 14 points
| help not a member, register now!
can you give an example?
i simply pointed out that your 'stats' were no big deal and irrelevant.
99 level: superstar since: oct 1, 2007 posted on: october 12, 2011 9:55 am score: 99 big east plotting football, hoops divisions gasman, even you have to admit that the sec has its up years and down years from division to division.
but, for you to claim wvu would get killed in the sec... just makes you look foolish.
hand you the game 2- think!
we are confident that boise state will be well positioned for future success, and we will evaluate our status with the best interests of the entire university in mind.
3- lsu "only" had 360 yds, but 300 yards produced 33 points, only 60 yards produced nothing...
so wva would have to drive 90 yards 6 times and assuming 50% conversion that is 21 points and 270 yards.
yet none of these teams accomplished in points or passing yards or total yards what wvu produced.
run your bracket pool online withbracket manager.
1- lsu's defense is built on bend don't break and let the other team
if i started a new conf.
some  league members support adding boise state because of the broncos’ recent  success, which would help the league with its future bcs status.
pm officials from what’s left of the big east’s dwindling football membership had another conference call on tuesday morning and there remains no specific timetable on adding ucf, but “appears an invitation is forthcoming” for the knights, the league’s no. 1 target.
with that said 1- wva scored 3 td's on 16 possessions 19% oops a bit off their 50% ave 2- wva had 533 total yards, 270 resulted in points 263 didnt (do you really want to brag about all those worthless yards??)
“the landscape of college athletics is exceptionally fluid, and we  are continuing to monitor the situation.
you can ask any acc school that plays ecu, and they will tell you that ecu is ready to play you in football anytime, home or away.
enter your bracket for a chance to win a trip for 4 to the 2013 ncaa® final four® see all games visit app
sign-in forgot log-in or password ?
however,  others believe boise state, located nearly 700 miles west of air force and  nearly 2,200 miles from tampa/usf, is simply too far to consider.
some league members support adding boise state because of the broncos’ recent success, which would help the league with its future bcs status.
“they’ve been honest with us and that they’re not interested because of the challenges they had previously in conference usa,” the source said.
reputation: 95 level: superstar since: dec 2, 2007 posted on: october 12, 2011 10:55 am score: 89 big east plotting football, hoops divisions if this happens instead of just letting the beast die as it should.....all i can say is people better lay off the big 10 for their name being inaccurate because there is nothing east about air force, smu, houston, and boise.
however, there remains the very real possibility louisville and west  virginia may not be in the league and bound for the big 12 if missouri leaves  for the sec or the big 12 expands to 12 teams.
compete for up to $3,500 with fantasy baseball premium games.
i said it's because wvu threw as much as 3 sec schools vs lsu.
[ reply to comment ] lsutiger1978
we are confident that boise state  will be well positioned for future success, and we will evaluate our status  with the best interests of the entire university in mind.
blogs - it's true: i'm moving 03/12/12 11:22 am - big east "open" to pitt, syracuse leaving early 03/07/12
there also appears to be conflicting opinions on pursuing boise state.
[ reply to comment ] « prev · 1 · 2 · 3 · 4 · 5 · 6 · 7 · 8 · 9 · 10 · next » about mcmurphy's law up-to-the-minute college football news, views and analysis.
zdnet cbs cares | cbs films | cbs radio | cbs.com | cbsinteractive | cbsnews.com | cbssports.com | chow | clicker | cnet | college network | find articles | gamespot | help.com | last.fm |maxpreps | metacritic.com | moneywatch | mysimon | radio.com | search.com | shopper.com | showtime | smartplanet | techrepublic | the insider | tv.com | urbanbaby.com | zdnet about cbssports.com | advertise | site map | development center © 2012 cbs interactive.
the newark star-ledger reported one proposed alignment discussed at  tuesday’s meeting consisted of rutgers, uconn, south florida, ucf, temple  and navy in an east division with west virginia, louisville, cincinnati, air  force, smu and houston in a west division.
the acc does not need another north carolina team thus why they got pitt and syc.
army was in c-usa from 1998-2004.
a lot of teams would be 1-4 after playing south carolina, virginia tech, north carolina and houston.
boise state’s athletic achievements, academic and research successes, popularity, and vision for future growth make the university an extremely valuable conference partner.”
boise  state’s athletic achievements, academic and research successes,  popularity, and vision for future growth make the university an extremely  valuable conference partner.”
[ reply to comment ] the gasman reputation: 98 level: superstar since: mar 26, 2009 posted on: october 12, 2011 9:08 am score: 87
clab4tune, i was responding sarcastically to an emotional, hateful, unprovoked post against the acc and the north carolina schools.
philadelphia (temple) is the  nation’s no. 4 market, dallas (smu) is no. 5 and houston is no. 10.
to me, it would be a huge mistake for the be to pass over ecu.
i know we punted to wva 6 times and the average start on those 6 possessions was the 10.
in the end, wvu lost.
it would be centralized (duke, ncst, unc, wf, usc (gamecocks), clemson, virginia, wvu, vt, ecu, app st, maryland) would be ok in all sports!
that ecu has not been productive against the acc schools but ecu does fit the beast profile.
privacy policy | ad choice | terms of use | mobile user agreement | cbs sports is a registered trademark of cbs broadcasting inc.
[ reply to comment ] moonglum1
lsu has the #2 offensive efficiency in the sec.
think 6 long drives produces any turnovers?
funny how everyone - outside of wvu fans - thinks that they would be average at best in the sec.
level: all-star since: nov 3, 2007 posted on: october 12, 2011 9:47 am score: 116 big east plotting football, hoops divisions the be must take ecu as well that would be good for the conference to get a school in ncarolina that actually cares about football and doesn't have to answer to tobacco road, and the bigeast can give the acc a lil "take that" in their own front yard.
and all-time against the other schools that the beast is looking at ecu has done very well, which is what you need to look at. 1-0 vs boise state (again we had chris johnson that game) 8-2 vs ucf, 7-4 vs temple, 6-4 vs houston (last one was houston crushing ecu) 2-2 vs smu and 0-2 vs navy (again another crushing defeat last time).
category: ncaaf tags: air  force, army, big 12, big east, boise state, cincinnati, houston, louisville,  navy, rutgers, south florida, temple, ucf, uconn, west virginia « prev · 1 · 2 · 3 · 4 · 5 · 6 · 7 · 8 · 9 · 10 · next »
among those mentioned were ucf, air force,  navy, temple, houston, smu and boise state, a league source told cbssports.com.
what make temple, smu and houston attractive to the big east, one source  said, is their respective television markets.
i am not an ecu fan, but i respect their program, fans and great facilities.
wva (according to abc commentators)
2:58 pm - i've moved freestyle, 03/13/12 12:31 pm - i've moved dodds and ends, 03/10/12 4:45 pm - bull pennings
on a consistency basis, i would say that wvu is like uga or arkansas.
how about telling us what it means to " have to answer to tobacco road".
because wvu didn't win?
&n bsp; & nbsp; [ reply to comment ] buford62 reputation: 94 level: all-star since: jul 9, 2010 posted on: october 12, 2011 10:55 am score: 97 big east plotting football, hoops divisions it is my feeling after the big east officials and presidents make the final decision to add 6 more schools, east carolina will be invited to the conference.
“the landscape of college athletics is exceptionally fluid, and we are continuing to monitor the situation.
the cadets were 9-41 in c-usa play and  finished last in the league five of the seven seasons.