whether you need  basketball, baseball, softball or hockey jerseys, be rest assured that you  would get the best deal on shop4teams.
please call us today so we can put together  a custom team package for your sports team.
athletic uniforms for all team sports on sale now.
save 25% to 50% on all your sportswear and apparel which is perfect for high schools, aau teams, travel teams and club teams.
here you will find an enormous selection of stock and custom athletic uniforms, and warm ups for all sports with quick delivery & great pricing.
please call us today so we can put together a custom team package for your sports team.
we accept school & university purchase orders, cashiers checks or money orders.
buying basketball, baseball, football uniforms is more than a simple purchase; today it can be an investment.
any uniform can be plain or custom lettered.
our athletic uniform selection is top of the line apparel.
shop4teams is an american company that uses superior  quality material to manufacture all our sports uniforms.
shipping & importance of our customers security
new: swimming & officials & referees shop 4 teams is is dedicated to bringing you the best discounts on athletic uniforms, jerseys, team warm ups, jackets & sportswear.
save 25% to 50% on all  your sportswear and apparel which is perfect for high schools, aau teams,  travel teams and club teams.
we have the same or better quality as our competitors; just have better pricing & quicker delivery on the same items.
specials that we are offering are:  factory direct pricing at 50% off on custom jerseys & uniforms for any  sport with up to 3 color lettering and numbers done in tackle-twill which is  hand sewn from $75.00 per set, we guarantee the lowest prices on these,  if you find someone cheaper, we will beat it.
call 800-421-1974 or e-mail us for a formal quote on your  teams sports uniforms & apparel.
all standards are met from little league for baseball and football to basketball, baseball, and cheerleading for high schools to colleges, universities, and professional sports.
all stock uniforms, warm-ups,  sport bags, sweats & shoes can ship the same day.
custom lettering takes 2 weeks, please call us for rush  lettering.
shop 4 teams is dedicated to bringing you the best discounts & factory direct prices (50% off) on custom athletic uniforms & custom jerseys.
shop4teams is an american company that uses superior quality material to manufacture all our sports uniforms.
we offer uniforms for basketball, baseball, football, hockey, lacrosse, soccer, swimming, track, softball ,cheerleading & more.
[contact] [adobe files]
the diversity of the product line assists in meeting the needs of the recreational user as well as those at a competitive level.
whether you need basketball, baseball, softball or hockey jerseys, be rest assured that you would get the best deal on shop4teams.
about us | testimonials | contact us  |  login search call now 1 (800) 421-1974 fax: 1 (888) 530-7654 sportswear and uniforms for team sports here you will find an enormous selection of stock and custom athletic  uniforms, and warm ups for all sports with quick delivery & great  pricing.
as the retail environment changes, we are prepared to meet the demands of internet shoppers like you with great customer service and the very best in sportswear, athletic uniforms, jerseys & team warm-ups.
shop 4 teams continues to grow and be a leader in sporting goods retailing.