one man dies as winds of over 160kph hit britain and... republican presidential candidates race across iowa...
before the provincial ban on hand-held cellphones was introduced in quebec  in april, i talked on my cellphone while driving way more than i needed to.
"the impairments aren't because your hands aren't on the wheel.
as he watched footage of crashes, near-crashes and careless driving, vanderbilt observed that more often than not, it's not that unforeseen things happen for no good reason but that people do things that make crashes more likely or even unpreventible.
when a driver brakes hard or turns suddenly,  the camera's record of the 10 seconds before and after the event is sent to  company analysts.
" the same was true of me the morning i was stopped for speeding, i am afraid - and it is true of too many of us, way too often.
the risk of having a traffic accident while using a cellular phone is the  same as the risk while driving drunk, according to a canadian study that  appeared in new england journal of medicine back in 1997, and hands-free phones  appear to be no safer than the hand-held ones.
"you could drive for years with a cellphone and say, 'how can cellphones be dangerous, because i do it every day for two hours and nothing's happened?'
less than a  dozen feet away was a child on a bicycle; a friend was nearby, just off the  road.
"not only was the guy unaware of the real hazards he was subjecting  himself and others to in the way he was driving," vanderbilt writes,  "he was not even aware that he was unaware."
other studies since have found  the same thing.
polls on aggressive driving, for instance, report more people seeing it than doing it.
i signal before turning, am mindful in the car - of cyclists and pedestrians and other vehicles - and i watch the road.
other studies since have found the same thing.
(now, i almost always pull over - not because of the spectre of a $115 fine and three demerits if i'm caught but, more important, because i have realized nothing is so crucial that it can't wait for me to stop driving to say or hear it.)
i like to think of myself as a courteous, conscientious driver.
"i'm not even going to check.
"you could have killed someone," the officer said.
polls on aggressive driving, for instance, report more people seeing it  than doing it.
"human attention, in the best of circumstances, is a fluid but fragile entity," as vanderbilt writes.
"this is, of course, statistically quite improbable," observes the brooklyn-based writer.
"this is, of course, statistically  quite improbable," observes the brooklyn-based writer.
unauthorized distribution, transmission or republication strictly prohibited.
the speeding ticket i got the other week was one i deserved - totally.
it's humiliating - people peering into your car and all.
kim jong-il, supreme leader of north korea, had a ... three people are dead and dozens were sent to hospital after a via rail train derailed in burlington, ont., sunday afternoon.
but the truth is that there is a great deal of careless driving and there  are many near-misses - and that we are nearly all responsible.
the july morning i was stopped for speeding, i was so focused on getting to where i was headed i didn't even notice the police cruiser tailing me down the curving mountain road.
the risk of having a traffic accident while using a cellular phone is the same as the risk while driving drunk, according to a canadian study that appeared in new england journal of medicine back in 1997, and hands-free phones appear to be no safer than the hand-held ones.
montreal gazette© copyright (c) driving passengers leapt into the sea and fought over lifejackets...
"human  attention, in the best of circumstances, is a fluid but fragile entity,"  as vanderbilt writes.
photograph by: dave sidaway/montreal gazette , canwest news service the speeding ticket i got the other week was one i deserved - totally.
before the provincial ban on hand-held cellphones was introduced in quebec in april, i talked on my cellphone while driving way more than i needed to.
in a school zone, yet.
well, that's because you've been lucky.
me and everyone else.
" "we all get reinforced the wrong way," said bruce moeller, ceo of drivecam, a san diego-based company which installs cameras around the rear-view mirrors of commercial vehicles.
in one case, a driver looked down to dial a cellphone while driving along a  residential street; his eyes were off the road for most of the nine seconds of  the recorded event; as his van began to leave the road, he swerved.
driving.ca takes a look at some of the cars featured in this year's oscar-nominated films.
not infrequently, i drive in excess of the speed limit - not much, but over it.
"it is the other person's behaviour that needs to be controlled,  not mine."
thinking that we're above average helps to explain our initial resistance to such safety measures as cellphone restrictions, he suggests.
and yet, human nature is such that the longer we go without crashing our cars or hurting someone, the more strongly reinforced our risky behaviour becomes. "as an average driver, you can get away with a lot before it catches up with you," john lee, head of the cognitive systems laboratory at the university of iowa told vanderbilt.
it was  cavalier of me - and stupid.
it's  because your mind isn't on the road," david strayer, a psychology  professor at the university of utah told katharine mieszkowski of salon.com a  couple of weeks ago.
in study after study, it seems, when groups of drivers were asked to compare themselves to the average driver, a majority responded that they were better, tom vanderbilt reports in his compelling new book about driving, traffic: why we drive the way we do (and what it says about us) (alfred a. knopf, 402 pp, $29.95).
so  does sitting in your car on a busy street with a cruiser behind you, lights  flashing.
crash rates in drivecam-equipped vehicles have dropped significantly.
i have rummaged through my purse on occasion while driving and once, while  fiddling with the radio dial on a winter night, i came within a hair's breadth  of hitting the car in front of me.
i'd been way over the 30-kilometre limit.
(now, i almost always pull over - not because of the spectre of a $115 fine and  three demerits if i'm caught but, more important, because i have realized  nothing is so crucial that it can't wait for me to stop driving to say or hear  it.)
my driving record was otherwise unblemished, i said.
"not only was the guy unaware of the real hazards he was subjecting himself and others to in the way he was driving," vanderbilt writes, "he was not even aware that he was unaware.
"someone is self-enhancing," vanderbilt writes.
in one case, a driver looked down to dial a cellphone while driving along a residential street; his eyes were off the road for most of the nine seconds of the recorded event; as his van began to leave the road, he swerved.
as he watched footage of crashes, near-crashes and careless driving,  vanderbilt observed that more often than not, it's not that unforeseen things  happen for no good reason but that people do things that make crashes more  likely or even unpreventible.
"it is the other person's behaviour that needs to be controlled, not mine."
in fact, as he explains, we are way more distracted and distractible than  we acknowledge - or even could acknowledge, since one reason we inflate our  driving abilities may well be that we can't accurately judge them to begin  with.
" "we all get reinforced the wrong way," said bruce moeller, ceo of  drivecam, a san diego-based company which installs cameras around the rear-view  mirrors of commercial vehicles.
when a driver brakes hard or turns suddenly, the camera's record of the 10 seconds before and after the event is sent to company analysts.
i signal  before turning, am mindful in the car - of cyclists and pedestrians and other  vehicles - and i watch the road.
by susan schwartz, canwest news service june 10, 2009 story photos ( 1 ) the truth is that there is a great deal of careless driving and there are  many near-misses - for which we are nearly all responsible.
so does sitting in your car on a busy street with a cruiser behind you, lights flashing.
in fact, as he explains, we are way more distracted and distractible than we acknowledge - or even could acknowledge, since one reason we inflate our driving abilities may well be that we can't accurately judge them to begin with.
the july morning i was stopped for  speeding, i was so focused on getting to where i was headed i didn't even  notice the police cruiser tailing me down the curving mountain road.
less than a dozen feet away was a child on a bicycle; a friend was nearby, just off the road.
the same was true of me the morning i was stopped for speeding, i am afraid  - and it is true of too many of us, way too often.
not infrequently, i drive in excess of the  speed limit - not much, but over it.
it's because your mind isn't on the road," david strayer, a psychology professor at the university of utah told katharine mieszkowski of salon.com a couple of weeks ago.
crash rates in drivecam-equipped vehicles have dropped  significantly.
"you could drive for years with a  cellphone and say, 'how can cellphones be dangerous, because i do it every day  for two hours and nothing's happened?'
"we  overestimate the risk to society and we underestimate our own risk," he  writes.
but the truth is that there is a great deal of careless driving and there are many near-misses - and that we are nearly all responsible.
i have rummaged through my purse on occasion while driving and once, while fiddling with the radio dial on a winter night, i came within a hair's breadth of hitting the car in front of me.
thinking that we're above average helps to explain our initial resistance  to such safety measures as cellphone restrictions, he suggests.
okay, it was  summer:
in study after study, it seems, when groups of  drivers were asked to compare themselves to the average driver, a majority  responded that they were better, tom vanderbilt reports in his compelling new  book about driving, traffic: why we drive the way we do (and what it says about  us) (alfred a. knopf, 402 pp, $29.95).
it was cavalier of me - and stupid.
" fines and demerit points have a way of focusing the mind - mine anyway.
and yet, human nature is such that the longer we go without crashing our  cars or hurting someone, the more strongly reinforced our risky behaviour  becomes.
i'd  been way over the 30-kilometre limit.
"we overestimate the risk to society and we underestimate our own risk," he writes.
about canada.com | privacy statement | terms | copyright & permissions © 2010-2012 postmedia network inc.
well, that's because you've been  lucky.
the distracted driver hadn't seen them.
most think they're better-than-average drivers, most are wrong
"as an average driver, you can get away with a lot before it catches  up with you," john lee, head of the cognitive systems laboratory at the  university of iowa told vanderbilt.