(kevin c. cox/getty  images / march 24, 2012)
to be determined printable 2012 ncaa tournament bracket complete coverage: 2012 ncaa tournament by shannon ryan,  tribune reporter 10:37 p.m.
(kevin c. cox/getty images / march 24, 2012)
the 6-foot-6 buford, the only senior in  buckeyes' starting lineup, ranked third on the team in scoring with 14.4 points  per game.
the cubs should have kept cardenas and dealt dewitt - services - subscribe - manage subscription - subscription payment - chicagopoints - mobile - newsletters/alerts - digital edition - reprints - today's paper - rss - news in education - faq - connect - facebook - twitter - editorial contacts - work for us - reader panel - company contacts - send news tips - comments/feedback - tribune events - corrections - solutions - buy an ad - advertising solutions - special ad sections - abandoned properties - online marketing - social-media contests - classified - announcements - apartments - cars for sale - commercial real estate - garage sales - help wanted - homes for sale - mortgages - obituaries - pets for sale - public records - shop - weekly sales ads - coupons - fan shop - wine club - riviera tours - tribune store - photo store - archives - photos - video - events/listings - columns - readers share - blogs - maps & apps - topic galleries a tribune newspaper website - - terms of service - privacy policy - about our ads - bbb a+
he was 4-for-13 from the field and 2-for-7 from 3-point range for 13 points against gonzaga.
featured video - is the new ipad right for you?
the reason they project him high is because they know at 25, you've got  an nba all-star potentially.
waiters showed his offensive spark early in the first half saturday.
“what's fair is thenba project him high.
waiters finished with just nine points in 20 minutes as he fouled out in the final minute of the game.
tribune reporter colleen kane contributed copyright © 2012, chicago tribune chi-baylors-basketball-football-teams-share-success-20120324 comments (0) add comments | discussion faq
tribune reporter colleen kane contributed copyright © 2012, chicago tribune
“he isn't a boastful person,” drew said.
he's a late bloomer in his game.”
“the great thing about  william is he usually bounces back, and hopefully the odds say (in the regional  final) some higher percentage will be going in for him,” matta said.
the men's players said they're tight with the female players and the many of the athletic teams at baylor.
to: - loading home > sports > college sports baylor's basketball, football teams share success perry jones iii drives against xavier in the sweet 16.
jones iii scored 14 points to  help the bears beat xavier in the sweet 16.
the women's team set the tone, beating georgia tech 83-68 in the regional semifinal in iowa.
the baylor men's basketball  team watched some of its school's women's game in the locker room at the  georgia dome, where it's preparing to face top-seeded kentucky on sunday in the ncaa tournament's south region final.
drew said that's unfair.
right now, perry's not anywhere where he will be.
“the way  our practice gym is set up and our whole facility there, we walk in and we see  all of their trophies on the right,” forward quincy acy said.
he completed a three-point play that sent ohio state's jared sullinger to the bench with his second foul and followed with three more  free throws later in the half.
buford did just  enough, finishing with 13 points on just 3-for-12 shooting in ohio state's  77-70 victory oversyracuse.
- chicago rallies for trayvon martin - derrick rose, 'i hate being injured' college photo galleries illinois basketball game photos northwestern basketball game photos notre dame basketball game photos illinois football in action results, schedule, stats illinois basketball results, schedule, stats northwestern basketball results, schedule, stats notre dame basketball results, schedule, stats depaul basketball results, schedule, stats northern illinois basketball results, schedule, stats loyola basketball results, schedule, stats uic basketball results, schedule, stats hot fringe bathing suits corals + cognacs blog contest best bets from the sunday ads hot club fashion in chicago spring styles on pinterest how to host any type of party chicagonow 10 thoughts on matt forte's tweet
“he isn't a  boastful person,” drew said.
the baylor men's basketball team watched some of its school's women's game in the locker room at the georgia dome, where it's preparing to face top-seeded kentucky on sunday in the ncaa tournament's south region final.
“everybody at baylor wants to see the other teams do well.”
entering saturday, he led the orange with 14.3 points per game in ncaa tournament games.
on thursday against cincinnati, he shot 1-for-8 from  the field and finished with four points.
cold spell: ohio state coach thad matta acknowledged friday that william buford's  numbers in the two ncaa tournament games prior to saturday's east region final  in boston pointed to a slump.
unfair criticism: despite  averaging 14 points and 7.7 rebounds, baylor sophomore forwardperry jones iii  has faced criticism for not being more productive considering the hype he  garnered entering college.
“the great thing about william is he usually bounces back, and hopefully the odds say (in the regional final) some higher percentage will be going in for him,” matta said.
the reason they project him high is because they know at 25, you've got an nba all-star potentially.
waiters finished with just nine points  in 20 minutes as he fouled out in the final minute of the game.
the 6-foot-6 buford, the only senior in buckeyes' starting lineup, ranked third on the team in scoring with 14.4 points per game.
“what's fair is thenba project him  high.
by shannon ryan, tribune reporter - related - style of play?
the women's team set the tone, beating  georgia tech 83-68 in the regional semifinal in iowa.
the men's players said  they're tight with the female players and the many of the athletic teams at  baylor.
on thursday against cincinnati, he shot 1-for-8 from the field and finished with four points.
but syracuse coach jim boeheim  said the sophomore still has “lapses on the defensive end” that he  needs to correct.
to be determined - printable 2012
ncaa tournament bracket - complete coverage: 2012
- columnists - travel - news & tips - weather - chicago travel - midwest travel - u.s. travel - international travel - family travel - cruises - vacation starter - deals - health - booster shots - dental - diabetes - fitness - galleries - local news - nutrition - sex & dating - green living - julie's health club - cancer central - opinion - editorials - commentary - letters - endorsements - share - change of subject - page's page - minority of one - stantis cartoons - columns - blogs - real estate - for sale - apartments - buyers - sellers - communities - foreclosure - home & garden - latest sales - luxury - news - advertise - cars - cars for sale - 2012 chicago auto show - auto news - car care - car reviews - dealer specials - recalls - traffic - advertise - jobs - my careerbuilder - find jobs - job recommendations - post resumes - resources - for employers - advertise - trib careers - shopping - weekly sales ads - local dailies - my brands - from our experts - shopping events - neighborhoods - i'm shopping for ... advanced search advanced search x - include all of these words: - include any of these words: - include this exact phrase: - exclude: - select a date range this week past 30 days past 3 months past year - create a custom date range from:
currently there are no comments.
waiters showed his offensive spark early in the  first half saturday.
cdt, march 24, 2012 atlanta --
buford did just enough, finishing with 13 points on just 3-for-12 shooting in ohio state's 77-70 victory oversyracuse.
quarterbackrobert griffin iii, who won the heisman trophy, spent more  time in the basketball locker room than many of the assistant coaches,  basketball head coach scott drew said.
baylor's athletic programs have seen a dramatic rise lately, especially in men's and women's basketball and football.
accredited business - chicago tribune, 435 n. michigan ave., chicago, il 60611 -
he was 4-for-13 from the field and 2-for-7 from 3-point range for 13  points against gonzaga.
include all of these words: include any of these words: include this exact phrase: select a date range this week past 30 days past 3 months past year
create a custom date range from: to: loading baylor's basketball, football teams share success comments 0 perry jones iii drives against xavier in the sweet 16.
“the way our practice gym is set up and our whole facility there, we walk in and we see all of their trophies on the right,” forward quincy acy said.
“it's a family  environment,” guard brady haslip said.
baylor's athletic programs have seen a dramatic rise lately, especially in  men's and women's basketball and football.
quarterbackrobert griffin iii, who won the heisman trophy, spent more time in the basketball locker room than many of the assistant coaches, basketball head coach scott drew said.
jones iii scored 14 points to help the bears beat xavier in the sweet 16.
“then we look on the left, and it's kind of empty.
cold spell: ohio state coach thad matta acknowledged friday that william buford's numbers in the two ncaa tournament games prior to saturday's east region final in boston pointed to a slump.
offensive spark: syracuse guard dion waiters comes off the bench to average 12.7 points per  game, second on the team.
college sports - home - mobile - alerts - trib nation - tribu - weather - obits - horoscopes - ask amy - columns - photos - video - advertise - subscribe - help - news - breaking - chicagoland - suburbs - nation & world - elections - clout street - obits - watchdog - maps & apps - schools - religion - lottery - business - breaking - problem solver - your money - technology - chicago top stocks - promotions - executives to know - business lunches - columnists - sports - breaking - bears - bulls - blackhawks - cubs - white sox - college - preps plus - soccer - golf - smack - scores - columnists - a&e - breaking - tv - movies - music - theater - food & dining - books - celebrity - events - arts - comics - puzzles - chicago live!
be the first to comment!
entering saturday, he led the orange with 14.3 points  per game in ncaa tournament games.
he completed a three-point play that sent ohio state's jared sullinger to the bench with his second foul and followed with three more free throws later in the half.
ncaa tournament 10:37 p.m.
“everybody at baylor wants  to see the other teams do well.”
unfair criticism: despite averaging 14 points and 7.7 rebounds, baylor sophomore forwardperry jones iii has faced criticism for not being more productive considering the hype he garnered entering college.
offensive spark: syracuse guard dion waiters comes off the bench to average 12.7 points per game, second on the team.
“it's a family environment,” guard brady haslip said.
related style of play?
but syracuse coach jim boeheim said the sophomore still has “lapses on the defensive end” that he needs to correct.
“but yeah, we need will to play well.”
“then  we look on the left, and it's kind of empty.