and why he keeps the other ones to himself.
see, i told you the man was a genius.
“i like speaking with members of the media and i have a great amount  of respect for what they do ...”
he also was far from being an outstanding basketball coach.
if he were a president, he’d be millard fillmore.
that being said, i’m sure i drive some members of the press a little insane.
he knows we’d never cough up  the $19.95, unless the book also came with a 12-pack of beer and a cheap cigar.
you  probably figured that out.
the coaching gig  is just a disguise to protect his true identity.
the other day, i received a copy of kruger’s book “the xs & os of success: a playbook for leaders in business and life.”
most young, impressionable people who could be  reading newspapers are playing video games, listening to metallica mp3s on  their ipods or texting their friends.)
but kruger goes on to explain his wing-tip-shoes approach to public  speaking.
first, he said he truly believes what he says — that the rebels have  to be more aggressive on defense, or at least work hard in practice every day.
our reporters on the scene will send you text messages (up to four times a game) for rebels football and basketball contests with the scores and stats you need to know.
for the record, kruger didn’t say the part in parentheses.
in the book, kruger says he enjoys colorful quotes and sound bites as much as the next guy.
it usually comes at someone else’s expense.”
he knows we’d never cough up the $19.95, unless the book also came with a 12-pack of beer and a cheap cigar.
“if it wasn’t for the interest from the media, which represents  the general public’s interest, we would not be blessed to enjoy the  lifestyle that we have.
it’s a simple guideline.
“when it comes to the media, i will gladly take the public wrath of a journalist who is frustrated with my blandness before ever coming close to insulting or embarrassing one of our players through a media outlet.
kruger then rehashes one of his more riveting quotes from the 2006-07 sweet  16 season.
© las vegas sun, 2012, all rights reserved.
coach kruger is a wise man -- he knows what to say and when to say it.
comments are moderated by las vegas sun editors.
anyway, i started flipping through the book, because although i have never  been a leader in business or in life, you never know when the bottom’s  gonna fall out of the newspaper business and then what would i do?
it’s  a simple guideline.
our mobile rebels coverage will keep you informed of the teams' latest news wherever you and your web-enabled phone may roam.
he’s also kind of  boring.
username: password: never can get enough unlv analysis and chatter?
kruger goes on to say there are young, impressionable people who read the papers.
m.lvsun.com/rebels/ to view/update your newsletter subscriptions and interests, please visit our preference center.
likewise, i have a new appreciation for middle relief pitchers, the way plants use energy from sunlight to make sugar, and chief executives with names like accountants.
so is it true when marcus lawrence was canned last year, it was his third dui?
my dad was like that, too.
flag so is it true when marcus lawrence was canned last year, it was his third  dui?
in all seriousness, after reading those three pages in his book, i think i  have a better understanding of kruger and why he says the things he does.
kruger then rehashes one of his more riveting quotes from the 2006-07 sweet 16 season.
it usually  comes at someone else’s expense.”
he was far from boring.
first, he said he truly believes what he says — that the rebels have to be more aggressive on defense, or at least work hard in practice every day.
that’s just the way dad taught us to do it.”
he says you’d be surprised how hard players work on  their defense when they’re not gossiping about what coach said about them  in the morning paper.
published since 1950.contact us to report news, errors or for advertising opportunities.
unlv hoops notebook: kruger unveils his 'playbook' (10-26-2008)
“however, dad taught us the important thing about humor.
because they view me as boring.
“i like speaking with members of the media and i have a great amount of respect for what they do ...”
i just happened to bump into one of the authors — d.j. allen, not kruger — at the thomas & mack center on the day the book came out.
it was so considerate of coach to dedicate an entire chapter to guys like me.
in all seriousness, after reading those three pages in his book, i think i have a better understanding of kruger and why he says the things he does.
it was so considerate of coach to  dedicate an entire chapter to guys like me.
that being said, i’m sure i drive some members of  the press a little insane.
anyway, i started flipping through the book, because although i have never been a leader in business or in life, you never know when the bottom’s gonna fall out of the newspaper business and then what would i do?
that’s why he is careful about what he says and sprinkles every quote  with vanilla extract.
well, there you have it.
likewise, i have a new appreciation for  middle relief pitchers, the way plants use energy from sunlight to make sugar,  and chief executives with names like accountants.
(but not enough of them.
join the sun sports staff in the rebel room for your fix.
“obviously, we need to get better.
if he were a classroom project, he’d be a term paper on photosynthesis.
remember bill bayno?
that’s why he is careful about what he says and sprinkles every quote with vanilla extract.
nobody around here, with the possible exception of local sportswriters  who’d give $20 — ok, maybe $5 — to hear the unlv basketball  coach say something interesting, is complaining.
comments that are off-topic, vulgar, profane or include personal attacks will be removed.
“if it wasn’t for the interest from the media, which represents the general public’s interest, we would not be blessed to enjoy the lifestyle that we have.
and  why he keeps the other ones to himself.
that’s why i chose not to have kids.
if you would like to submit your comment as a letter to the editor, you may submit it here.
if he were a baseball player — and he almost was — he’d be a middle reliever.
a little more difficult?
we’re playing solidly on defense  most of the time; however, we have to be aggressive and get after it the entire  40 minutes.”
by ron kantowski monday, nov. 10, 2008 | 2 a.m.
then this is the stop for you.
that’s how the chapter begins.
he’d be the first to tell you that.
most young, impressionable people who could be reading newspapers are playing video games, listening to metallica mp3s on their ipods or texting their friends.)
i just  happened to bump into one of the authors — d.j. allen, not kruger —  at the thomas & mack center on the day the book came out.
he’s also kind of boring.
in the book, kruger says he enjoys colorful quotes and sound bites as much  as the next guy.
in fact, just as soon as i’m done writing, i’m going to start working on my defense.
as i said, nobody’s complaining.
because any more than that, and he’d lose us like a set of car keys after a long night of playing poker at a buddy’s house when his wife was away visiting her parents.
commenting requires registration.
a couple of other media types were there.
we have to keep working hard every  day in practice to improve as a team.
where’s my atom splitter?
on the go but need your rebels fix?
comments should be relevant and  contain no abusive language.
but kruger goes on to explain his wing-tip-shoes approach to public speaking.
subscribe to the sun’s rss feeds.
it wasn’t like i was on the mailing list of preferred customers.
coach, if it wasn’t for your postgame press  conferences, i would have never split those atoms.
comments should be relevant and contain no abusive language.
in fact, just as soon as i’m done writing, i’m going to start  working on my defense.
nobody around here, with the possible exception of local sportswriters who’d give $20 — ok, maybe $5 — to hear the unlv basketball coach say something interesting, is complaining.
second, he said he believes in protecting his players, their families and  the university.
they received free copies of the book (i don’t know what they will do with theirs, but the sun’s will be sold in our annual christmas auction to benefit the sun camp fund).
las vegas sun reporters taylor bern and ray brewer talk about the unlv basketball team's ...(comment) more episodes » what a great turnout saturday for the unlv basketball team’s game against san diego state. ...
lon kruger was born and raised in kansas.
i flipped right to page 140 — the chapter called “if you don’t have anything nice to say.”
“ok, i will admit most readers probably begin to gloss over those types of statements in the morning paper after a while ...”
we want to treat our players as i would want my own son to be treated.
“ok, i will admit most readers probably begin to gloss over those  types of statements in the morning paper after a while ...”
second, he said he believes in protecting his players, their families and the university.
as just a good  ol’ boy from silver lake, kansas, shooting out nothing but vanilla
it  wasn’t like i was on the mailing list of preferred customers.
i flipped right to page 140 — the chapter called “if you  don’t have anything nice to say.”
our goal is not to limit the discussion, but rather to elevate it.
we want to treat our players as i would want my own son to  be treated.
as just a good ol’ boy from silver lake, kansas, shooting out nothing but vanilla quote after vanilla quote making their job a little more difficult.”
quote  after vanilla quote making their job a little more difficult.”
you probably figured that out.
the other day, i received a copy of kruger’s book “the xs &  os of success: a playbook for leaders in business and life.”
not the part about being an outstanding basketball coach.
lon kruger gives some lessons on leadership (8-15-2008)
he also was far from being an  outstanding basketball coach.
lon kruger is an outstanding basketball coach.
we have to keep working hard every day in practice to improve as a team.
the coaching gig is just a disguise to protect his true identity.
“when it comes to the media, i will gladly take the public wrath of a  journalist who is frustrated with my blandness before ever coming close to  insulting or embarrassing one of our players through a media outlet.
if he were a classroom project, he’d be a term paper on  photosynthesis.
kruger goes on to say there are young, impressionable people who read the  papers.
comments that are off-topic, vulgar, profane or  include personal attacks will be removed.
actually, it was more like three pages.
he says you’d be surprised how hard players work on their defense when they’re not gossiping about what coach said about them in the morning paper.
full comments policy.
they received free copies of the  book (i don’t know what they will do with theirs, but the sun’s  will be sold in our annual christmas auction to benefit the sun camp fund).
currently: 50° | complete forecast | log inunlv rebels unlv basketball:
lon kruger is actually ward cleaver.
d.j. allen is familiar with the local press.
the part about being boring.
7 days, 15 hours ago 25 days, 13 hours ago 2 months, 19 days ago 2 months, 22 days ago 3 months, 25 days ago locally owned and independent for more than 50 years.
coach, if it wasn’t for your postgame press conferences, i would have never split those atoms.
more posts » can't make it to the game but want to know the score?
by true_rebel_fan 7:08 a.m. flag
if he were a baseball player — and he almost was — he’d  be a middle reliever.
we’re playing solidly on defense most of the time; however, we have to be aggressive and get after it the entire 40 minutes.”
because any more than that, and  he’d lose us like a set of car keys after a long night of playing poker  at a buddy’s house when his wife was away visiting her parents.
the part about  being boring.
discussion: 2 comments so far… comments are moderated by las vegas sun editors.
our goal is not to limit  the discussion, but rather to elevate it.