this is how the game is played.
we fans aren’t any different than fans of any other university or pro team.
it’s also a great reason to be confident in frank staying.
but i don’t think we have much of a complaint if he chooses to go elsewhere.
not that i’m complaining, though.
i don’t know, but maybe the question has to be asked before we jump to conclusions on all this.
the time for calm and rational discourse is past, now is the time for senseless bickering -anonymous
by anon_the_younger about 4 hours ago 2 comments by rmartell about 8 hours ago 2 comments by chrisp wildcat 3 days ago 33 comments by bracketcat 4 days ago 60 comments by chrisp wildcat 8 days ago 125 comments by anon_the_younger 14 days ago 103 comments by gtcat 16 days ago 58 comments | 1 recs by emaw is my mo 17 days ago 4 comments by jeremy sharp 18 days ago 154 comments by emaw 4
by k. scott bailey on apr 7, 2011 3:44 pm cdt up reply actions
after the details emerged of his secret contract, well, i have since amended my position on that, but i for one am greatly upset when institutions fire coaches before their contracts are up.
newsletter signup about sb nation frequently asked questions terms of use privacy policy guiding principles advertise with us jobs @ vox media contact us opencalais - powered by thomson reuters
just because one of us thinks/feels that ksu is a good job doesn’t mean that it is a good job in all circumstances for hcfm.
if he turns miami around, he will go down as a coaching legend.
some back channel money is going to miami (and probably missouri) to get frank out of manhattan and to miami.
and i’m done discussing such loopiness.
based on the fact that, at present, miami is a piece of sh*t job, there would have to be some other explanation for his leaving than “he just wants to go home.”
i would be saddened, and definitely angry, but as time passed i’m sure i would forgive him.
the reality is that he ceases to be “our guy” the moment he leaves, and shortly after the program starts to look like it’s stagnating.
by k. scott bailey on apr 7, 2011 1:48 pm cdt up reply actions
so far, i haven’t found any.
if anything, i’m glad he’s honest and willing to admit that he’ll “never say never” instead of spouting some “i wanna retire here” bullshit to get the press off his ass(it won’t work anyway).
by yeahboozin on apr 7, 2011 12:58 pm cdt up reply actions
but the coals and crawling could be the same source and same quote.
that’s just beyond the pale.
that is what he wants (or he does indeed want to leave, winters in manhattan do suck).
but i thought parrish tweeted something as well.
the programs aren’t close to comparable on a fiscal, record, or tradition sense.
ever 20 days ago 22 comments | 1 recs + new fanpost all fanposts > +2 updates link land-grant holy land +4 updates more from sbnation.com > 2012 nfl mock draft ufc 2012 nfl schedule halo 4 release date lumia 900 review stanley cup playoffs 2012 nba mock draft chelsea vs.
for now i’m just going to keep hoping that all that loyalty talk was more than just that.
by bracketcat on apr 10, 2011 5:15 pm cdt up reply actions loopiness is such fun!
all factors that work against k-state.
oh hail the purple and white by furnace76 on apr 8, 2011 7:16 pm cdt up reply actions and there are certain tv outlets that would rather do “big monday” from south beach as opposed to aggieville.
he likes to be on tv.
i don’t support that position either.
they hire some decent ast coach that really never has a true shot at winning.
two very different scales.
heck, i reached that point about 20 years ago.
but if i had a job coaching a 5a or 6a school with some good basketball tradition, there’s no way in hell
but the arena only (cont) “sits 8,000 fans and they won’t pay that kind of money.
the younger by anon_the_younger on apr 10, 2011 11:28 pm cdt up reply actions by panjandrum 27 days ago 111 comments by panjandrum about 1 year ago 15 comments | 2 recs by panjandrum 10 days ago 2 comments by bracketcat 11 days ago 30 comments by bracketcat 13 days ago 0 comments by bracketcat 13 days ago 13 comments by bracketcat 13 days ago 1 comment by bracketcat 17 days ago 195 comments community blog posts and discussion.
in fact, i did not support the firing of prince when he was fired, thinking at the time that we did not live up to our end of the bargain contract/loyalty wise.
miami should ask frank what it would take from every angle to get him there.
and that’s after you’ve thrown money at it.
by arkiecat on apr 7, 2011 3:30 pm cdt reply actions but if this coaching carousel has shown one thing, it’s that it’s not so easy to get a good coach to leave his current situation.
this article is not exactly a positive development.
if hcfm gets a better offer, or one that he (and family) perceives is a better offer then i hope he takes it or requires k-state to match it.
in three years when the job opens back up again because coach without a shot gets fired they will have franks list complete and only have to worry about money.
you mean he would be interested in going back home if the administration actually started to give a shit about basketball and also pay him and his staff well??
his assistants make more than some head coaches, fan support is constant and consistent, administrative support has been excellent, and there’s the whole issue of that new basketball training facility.
for frank martin, miami is home.
because frank martin is not richard katz.
they say sorry we cant do all that right now and thank you for taking the call.
honor exists among thieves, not coaches.
if billy donovan quits tomorrow to coach the heat, i would have no problem with frank openly courting that job.
were will miami get that kind of money?
mostly what they said is that miami sucks, but there’s always an outside chance the ’canes get their shit together and make a decent offer.
by k. scott bailey on apr 9, 2011 10:18 am cdt up reply actions since it makes you “right” either way.
here’s what was said “if they gave him $1.5-$2 million per year and guaranteed 12k fans per game i think (martin) martin would listen.
wouldn’t that kill any leverage he has (at least for this year)?
i’m pretty sure they would all laugh at the suggestion that they even have the time to consider that among the 1,000 other things on their mind at the time.
by xrayxtals on apr 7, 2011 1:57 pm cdt up reply actions he hit the benchmark to be able to negotiate an extension, and if adjc didn’t give him one after such obvious proof of his loyalty to ksu, then adjc becomes the bad guy if frank walks after 2016.
they have to build a better program to bring a guy like frank back home.
by jonfmorse on apr 7, 2011 9:02 pm cdt up reply actions "if you don't want to work, become a reporter.
but it’s possible frank sees a lot of potential there or at least enough to make him feel okay with going back “home”.
oh hail the purple and white by furnace76 on apr 9, 2011 9:52 am cdt up reply actions you honestly think missouri would hire a sub-par coach simply to get frank out of their conference?
by bracketcat on apr 7, 2011 4:37 pm cdt up reply actions by bracketcat on apr 7, 2011 4:40 pm cdt up reply actions 1 recs innovators look at the same thing as everyone else, yet see something different.
that’s kind of a false dichotomy, though.
i’m sure he is interested in the miami job if the situation is right, and while i would be disapointed i could not blame him.
anyone already questioning his loyalty is going to end up like the fans that left the bball team for dead in january.
by bracketcat on apr 7, 2011 1:41 pm cdt up reply actions because i have no confidence in miami getting it together to make the commitment and offer necessary by bracketcat on apr 7, 2011 1:42 pm cdt up reply actions
culture that we have allowed to define our society.
by bracketcat on apr 7, 2011 4:52 pm cdt up reply actions i have no where to post this other then here——- jeff goodman -- “kansas’ marcus and markieff morris both gone.
coaches remove themselves from consideration for jobs all the time.
the younger by anon_the_younger on apr 8, 2011 10:35 am cdt reply actions people keep telling me that there are rumors about frank martin leaving kansas state for miami, but so far all the speculation seems to be based on is 1) a job opening at miami and 2) the recent development that mike anderson left missouri for his heartthrob of arkansas.
i reiterate: a fraternity of liars.
i hope frank doesn’t leave or even bothers to listen, but i refuse to get a knot my stomach over any of this.
by k. scott bailey on apr 8, 2011 1:00 pm cdt up reply actions some were so adamant that frank would never even consider the miami job, that when it starts to leak that there might be some interest…the pendulum swings violently the other way.
let others tell the national media stuff like this while you say all the right things.
while i would be disappointed for sure, i wouldn’t blame frank martin for leaving if the pull of home, a generous salary and outlined support towards the basketball program is forthcoming from the um administration.
if he’d left after the beasley year it would have been horrible.
all you have to do is say, “i am not interested in the job as coach of the miami hurricanes, and will decline it if it’s offered.”
it practically begs miami to make  an offer.
by ct-k-stater on apr 7, 2011 7:27 pm cdt up reply actions - is it better for me professionally - is it better for my family - is it better for me personally - is the income better more pro’s than con’s, then you should take the opportunity i reject your reality and substitute my own.
oh hail the purple and white by furnace76 on apr 9, 2011 9:47 am cdt up reply actions but especially when the supposed events making up the “conspiracy” make no sense.
throwing money at it won’t automatically make it better.
and note that two comments above, we already have someone saying that frank only cares about money and bemoaning that “we” ever “trusted” him.
i’m still nervous, but at least we have conflicting sources instead of just one perspective… by elephanthouse on apr 7, 2011 2:44 pm cdt reply actions innovators look at the same thing as everyone else, yet see something different.
our support of frank martin has little to do with “loyalty”.
by k. scott bailey on apr 7, 2011 4:48 pm cdt up reply actions walking on hot coals would really suck.
after all, he did give us some great years while he was here, and an acrimonious exit should not, in my opinion, tarnish that legacy.
ncsu and mizzou learned that the hard way.
the whole thing with missouri hiring haith was the tip off.
by yeahboozin on apr 7, 2011 3:30 pm cdt up reply actions miami doesn’t improve his position, or that of his assistants.
media is now simply a profit center – it is no longer a public service…it wasn’t even given a proper burial – it was just left cold and lifeless in the gutter.
"to all the fake fans that just jump on and off the bandwagon who think we suck go cheer for somebody down the road then" -jp by jb-kstate on apr 7, 2011 11:13 pm cdt reply actions basically what i’m reading is lots of speculation and angst.
still confident frank will stay.
by bracketcat on apr 7, 2011 1:43 pm cdt up reply actions innovators look at the same thing as everyone else, yet see something different.
oh hail the purple and white by furnace76 on apr 9, 2011 8:27 pm cdt up reply actions sounds like what you’re describing.
by mac attack ict on apr 7, 2011 2:44 pm cdt up reply actions is that he’s only talked to 2 radio stations (nationally) and the mercury.
there is a dead rat in the woodpile.
oh hail the purple and white by furnace76 on apr 8, 2011 7:27 pm cdt up reply actions innovators look at the same thing as everyone else, yet see something different.
why would he not want to improve the position for himself, his family, and his assistants?
but he’s given this school and program plenty for four years and if now is when he should leave then i think he’s been nothing but a positive for kansas state.
battlestar galactica.'
there is “something to speak about”, frank.
forward into battle by chrisp
loyalty is a two-way street and if frank stays and ksu slumps the next few seasons will people be saying "why didn’t he leave?"
did you see my comment in a fanpost last night to the effect that if frank leaves, it will be because of back channel money being funneled to miami?
i guess if we all differentiate between our raw emotions—and yeah,
frank has enough charisma to sell big in miami; the big money boys think long term – they want to develop the college b/ball brand in s florida, and in the carribbean, central america, venezuela, etc.
frank is the guy to do it.
no way they hire that clown unless the big boys wanted to get frank out of manhattan.
navigation: jump to content areas: screen name password remember forgot password?
by k. scott bailey on apr 7, 2011 1:41 pm cdt up reply actions there’s nothing squash because no one from miami has called him.
and finally—look, it’s easy to say that principles are all that matter and to castigate those who don’t live up to our lofty expectations.
that doesn’t make him any less loyal to ksu then he was 1 month ago.
i, for one, do value loyalty, and would not support firing martin before his contract is up, unless he did something outrageous to deserve a firing (such as murder, embezzlement, etc.).
i am not speaking with anyone (in the media) because there is nothing to speak about,” martin told the mercury in a text message.
it should have been limited to any of: 1.
to me – and i say this as a member of the sports media – this is just people talking about hypothetical scenarios.
nothing to the rivals people, tcj, kcstar/eagle (i know why he isn’t talking to them)… by elephanthouse on apr 7, 2011 2:00 pm cdt up reply actions i reject your reality and substitute my own.
give in to angst if you must, but we are in a much better place right now to attract a quality coach than we have been since the retirement of jack hartman.
by k. scott bailey on apr 7, 2011 4:45 pm cdt up reply actions when you’re consistantly under .500 in conference play, a light switch just won’t go on and you’ll be a better program.
it is understandable that he would want to return to his roots – which happen to be in a tourist-y city on the beach in south florida.
i have no idea how hcfm thinks or feels other than what he provides via various outlets.
probably screws up his negotiating with ksu… by yeahboozin on apr 7, 2011 4:31 pm cdt up reply actions neither art alvarez nor shakey rodriguez explicitly ruled out frank listening to miami.
frank could quash all of this speculation pretty quickly.
we can, now, have quality proven coaches competing to come here.
by mystman995 on apr 7, 2011 1:42 pm cdt up reply actions shit happens when you win championships by andrew clark on apr 7, 2011 1:53 pm cdt up reply actions right when the miami job opened somewhere else too.
but if he leaves, then i think brad underwood would be an acceptable replacement that can continue the journey.
rock chalk talk by warden11 on apr 8, 2011 9:59 pm cdt up reply actions innovators look at the same thing as everyone else, yet see something different.
03.03.12 mar 2012 by bracketcat - 3 comments around sb nation frank haith to missouri could start big 12 basketball dominoes apr 2011 from big 12 hoops - 0 comments kansas state wildcats 2010-2011 season recap apr 2011 from big 12 hoops - 0 comments spotlight on… k-state head coach frank martin nov 2011 from big 12 hoops - 0 comments big 12 facts sheet oct 2011 from the smoking musket - 33 comments the shotgun/throwdown: tuesday (12/6/11) edition dec 2011 from the smoking musket - 1 comment read more: frank martin, john currie, miami hurricanes, kansas st. wildcats
and i appreciate what he’s saying the way he’s saying it.
he was still somewhat unproven as a big time coach.
by k. scott bailey on apr 8, 2011 7:33 pm cdt up reply actions but if frank does leave you won’t hear me moaning and crying about loyalty and other such non-sense.
there are two things you may greatly want and value, and you can only have or do one.
interesting that cole manbeck seems to be getting information too.
miami can’t get half their stadium full for a rivalry game?
and, of course, our “loyalty” to frank is very, very conditional.
what if frank is offered a generous salary with equally generous salaries for his assistants, plus all kinds of other sweeteners and he goes there, wins, and fansstill don’t show up?
anyway, i’m amused that nothing is really known other than speculation at this point.
this is not a destination job.
wildcat on apr 7, 2011 2:19 pm cdt reply actions 1 recs i’m just going to keep hoping that all that loyalty talk was more than just that.
missouri profits by getting frank out of the conference; they fire haith in 2 years, and they won’t whiff on their next big name flirtation.
but that’s not to say that there aren’t stronger heartstrings that lead elsewhere.
no one ever puts her/his personal needs before those of the institution s/he is tied to?
does anyone real want to argue with that proposition?
by mac attack ict on apr 7, 2011 3:58 pm cdt up reply actions 2-2 tie? :-)
all he has to say is, “i’m not interested in the job at the university of miami, and won’t take it if it’s offered.”
“i have not been contacted by anyone.”
from the reports we’ve been giving, there has been no contact, no offers, etc.
there is no benefit to being the first one to jump ship.
innovators look at the same thing as everyone else, yet see something different.
by bracketcat on apr 7, 2011 1:46 pm cdt up reply actions almost more douche-y than tdwmnbn.
and i wouldn’t actually hate martin if he were to leave.
i’m sure i’ll be angry at martin if he leaves.
frank’s team is definitely playing this well.
“i don’t see it happening.”
by jonfmorse on apr 7, 2011 9:04 pm cdt up reply actions
the only question at this point is whether frank's just trying to get a raise and/or put pressure on adjc, or really does want the miami job.
they’re still paying randy shannon from last year when he got fired (cont)
through an intermediary, a search firm let martin know that miami was going in a different direction.
but during these next three years with said coach they slowly build up everything on franks list.
i keep expecting a creative name for this whole thing like “martin gate” or “miami gate” (but something actually creative)
by williewannabe on apr 7, 2011 2:01 pm cdt up reply actions you don’t have much more than speculation.
i guess my point (and i think ww’s) is that this is frank’s choice.
oh hail the purple and white by furnace76 on apr 7, 2011 10:09 pm cdt up reply actions i think it’s george castanza with a “g”.
that character was absolutely vital to the show… my blogs: pakagankarachi.livejournal.com (dormant) burmahunkalove.livejournal.com (occasional signs of life) by mrhappymushroom on apr 8, 2011 12:29 am cdt up reply actions as of thursday morning, miami had not contacted kansas state and miami native frank martin.
i just don’t think it’s in the cane’s dna to get their shit together.
wildcat on apr 8, 2011 10:14 am cdt up reply actions before i’d even consider calling for his head.
by k. scott bailey on apr 7, 2011 2:31 pm cdt up reply actions
by mac attack ict on apr 8, 2011 10:40 am cdt up reply actions if this happens, it will sadden me beyond words.
by yeahboozin on apr 7, 2011 3:33 pm cdt up reply actions if mark fox really is unwilling to take ksu’s calls, then i think we should go the route of hiring someone like matthew graves of butler.
by mac attack ict on apr 7, 2011 2:52 pm cdt up reply actions here than what is obvious on the surface.
and you don’t know what his feelings are, where his priorities are at, whether or not he wants to be closer to his son, etc.
parrish didn’t really reveal much new stuff, at least to me.
i like my school pretty well.
i hope he sticks around for a long, long time and think he very well may.
if he leaves, miami is going to have to come up with serious money.
by k. scott bailey on apr 7, 2011 1:46 pm cdt up reply actions
about 1 year ago bracketcat 107 comments 0 recs  | tweet more from bring on the cats bruce weber: precedents and the college coaching carousel apr 2012 by ahearn alley - 42 comments bruce weber: the siu years apr 2012 by ahearn alley - 40 comments bruce weber and tempo apr 2012 by ahearn alley - 20 comments frank martin to south carolina: how did it get to this point?
by bracketcat on apr 7, 2011 3:33 pm cdt up reply actions innovators look at the same thing as everyone else, yet see something different.
they were afraid there dastardly deeds were about to be revealed!
but then my patience wears out.
(remember that wonderful feeling you had when the ex ended up ditching the fool who replaced you?
when i was first told, “did you hear frank might be leaving for miami?”
id sign in with facebook use openid openid remember don't have openid?sign up this article is not exactly a positive development.
kansas state fans might find it offensive, but in the end it doesn’t matter.
--jim halpert by vegascat07 on apr 8, 2011 9:45 am cdt up reply actions
by bracketcat on apr 8, 2011 12:14 pm cdt up reply actions by itchy n scratchy on apr 8, 2011 10:17 am cdt up reply actions who wasn’t replaceable had jc as his initials (and i don’t mean john currie).
if frank stays and the team is terrible the next three years, would you say he should be fired?
performance in the ncaa tournament (probably sweet 16 or higher) by no moths on apr 7, 2011 1:29 pm cdt up reply actions the bloom is definitely off the rose for me, as far as believing all the talk of loyalty and whatnot.
my new blog: those other guys.
that’s why i haven’t written anything about – no column for the paper, nothing on my blog.
from what we know there isn’t a 24-hour camera pointing at a door.
by mac attack ict on apr 7, 2011 2:47 pm cdt up reply actions but money is all that matters now.
i’d move back there to coach a 1a school—especially if my town’s school had instability in administration, crappy fan support, terrible facilities, and no basketball tradtion.
oh hail the purple and white by furnace76 on apr 7, 2011 10:08 pm cdt up reply actions by bracketcat on apr 8, 2011 12:13 pm cdt up reply actions
and, with the following comment you made, to wit: “you honestly think missouri would hire a sub-par coach simply to get frank out of their conference?”, i can tell you completely missed the point.
he tweeted another shortarticle by elephanthouse on apr 7, 2011 1:50 pm cdt up reply actions
as of now, it just seems like a lot of talk.
is show him and the program the love and support it has – and that is underlined by ground being broken on the new basketball facility.
this exhorts them to do so.
really, you think he is playing this game that far ahead?
by yeahboozin on apr 7, 2011 3:27 pm cdt up reply actions 2 recs (
frank could win like crazy at miami and south florida will not give a shit.
…willing to admit that he’ll "never say never" instead of spouting some "i wanna retire here" bullshit to get the press off his ass(it won’t work anyway).
we trusted you frank bitchslapping texas since 1997 by mjk7166 on apr 7, 2011 2:01 pm cdt reply actions college basketball is a business.
makes me think it’s not a fresh source.
by ashley dunkak on apr 10, 2011 11:09 pm cdt reply actions i think everyone likes hcfm
there is a knot forming in my stomach.
by k. scott bailey on apr 7, 2011 2:06 pm cdt up reply actions about how he actually liked the fact that it’s perfectly okay for a school to talk to a coach’sagent before even requesting permission to talk to the coach, because that way he knows that if they’re requesting permission, the deal’s already done?
by k. scott bailey on apr 7, 2011 2:32 pm cdt up reply actions it doesn’t mean that the “loyalty talk” wasn’t just talk.
--jim halpert by vegascat07 on apr 9, 2011 4:59 pm cdt up reply actions that makes the case for why they need to commit to improvements.
by k. scott bailey on apr 8, 2011 12:57 pm cdt up reply actions hell, sydney johnson bawled his eyes out when his alma mater, princeton, reached the ncaa tournament, and again when they acquitted themselves admirably in a slim defeat by final four-bound kentucky.
which probably is technically true.
until i hear a credible report (read: an actual journalist) that frank is even on miami’s list, i’m going with katz’s report and simple logic — miami won’t make the financial commitment necessary to attract martin because it’s never cared about basketball.
by k. scott bailey on apr 7, 2011 1:47 pm cdt up reply actions some of them just have good enough jobs that they can’t work up the food chain any more.
frank martin doesn’t owe ksu.
by k. scott bailey on apr 7, 2011 3:35 pm cdt up reply actions is because there is nothing but media speculation.
from a legal perspective though (and not really having anything to do with him going to miami), it was shortsighted of the school to give so many clauses in his contract that would allow him to renegotiate.
barcelona uefa champions league semifinal tb panjandrum bracketcat jonfmorse ahearn alley copyright © 2012 vox media, inc.
oh hail the purple and white by furnace76 on apr 7, 2011 10:02 pm cdt up reply actions no such thing has happened.
mar 2012 by tb - 391 comments kc star: frank martin to south carolina mar 2012 by panjandrum - 898 comments big 12 outlook:
my blogs: pakagankarachi.livejournal.com (dormant) burmahunkalove.livejournal.com (occasional signs of life) by mrhappymushroom on apr 8, 2011 12:23 am cdt up reply actions 1 recs not all fans would support firing martin before his contract has expired.
loyalty is a two-way street.
by k. scott bailey on apr 7, 2011 1:54 pm cdt up reply actions would he say this if there are (or is the possibility) of negotiations with ksu?
no university official in this country makes any hiring decision with an eye toward weakening a rival.
but he's not doing interviews with local media.
winning the big 12 tourney 4.
oh hail the purple and white by furnace76 on apr 9, 2011 8:25 pm cdt up reply actions crazy like a fox.
frank likes the bright lights.
a) frank seems very committed to his players and to the school.
but that’s just me, i can’t speak for everyone.
by williewannabe on apr 7, 2011 1:31 pm cdt reply actions i recall gregg doyel saying something to the effect of “frank would crawl to miami.”
just got a release both have signed with agent tony dutt.”
and i don’t blame him for that.
it is not even a remotely sound conspiracy theory, however.
i reject your reality and substitute my own.
and according to a source, martin should not expect a call.
but i still consider myself very loyal to my students.
in that case, agreed.
we couldn’t say that before huggins came back, then left, and frank took over.
if frank stays, i take complete credit for scaring off the conspirators!
parrish’s article is based on the premise that miami has the money (i’m thinking around an additional $7 million a year with upgrades to salaries and general basketball expenses – not to mention the huge money to upgrade/buildi facilities) and the support to do both.
this is not a personal relationship (though it doesfeel like that at times to many of us).
(or is the acc on tuesdays – but you get the point)
and then headlines like martin gate: (insert update here) c’mon man shit happens when you win championships by andrew clark on apr 7, 2011 1:23 pm cdt reply actions by bracketcat on apr 7, 2011 1:41 pm cdt up reply actions shit happens when you win championships by andrew clark on apr 7, 2011 1:52 pm cdt up reply actions by williewannabe on apr 7, 2011 1:57 pm cdt up reply actions i’m 50-50 as to whether it will, though, because i’m hearing rumblings that adjc and hcfm might be in extension talks, which is why the latter has cut off contact with local media.
at which point frank goes home!!
a top finish in the big 12 2.
by bracketcat on apr 8, 2011 12:12 pm cdt up reply actions is he claiming that people from one of our rivals will be funneling money to miami, so that they can pay frank, in order to get him out of our conference?
not because of frank being so loyal to kstate (although i think he does love it in manhattan), but because i have no confidence in miami getting it together to make the commitment and offer necessary.
nothing we can do about climate and location and local culture.
it is a reflection of the “me!
we don’t have a marriage contract with frank.
--jim halpert by vegascat07 on apr 8, 2011 9:37 am cdt up reply actions i’m done ever believing anything that comes out of the mouth of a college basketball coach.
glad i came, just wish i hadn't stayed so long.
frank martin has given his all to kansas state and its fans.
if i have to explain where the “back channel money” would come from, then some may be paying to much attention to 96 field brackets as opposed to who the hell is really pulling the strings in college sports these days.
by k. scott bailey on apr 7, 2011 2:04 pm cdt up reply actions
by bracketcat on apr 8, 2011 2:44 pm cdt up reply actions what i’m saying is this: if miami “makes the finacial committment to go to get frank”, then 1.
that awful power, the public opinion of the nation, was created by a horde of self-complacent simpletons who failed at ditch digging and shoemaking and fetched up journalism on their way to the poorhouse." - mark twain by sean t on apr 8, 2011 7:56 am cdt up reply actions innovators look at the same thing as everyone else, yet see something different.
frank isn’t doing anything wrong by considering the possibility of switching job.
if i’m the ksu ad, i want to keep martin long term at all costs, but i also want to see how this upcoming year goes for free.
i would prefer hcfm to stick around and continue to build k-state basketball back to the point it was in the legendary tex winter days.
although jack consistently had us competing for a big 8 title and made some good runs in the dance, ksu still dipped down a bit to bring kruger in.
miami can grab martin, u-turn program if it commits
miami is a job that will be open again in 3 years so why not get the wishlist and start working on it one item at a time….
even if he were to leave next week—and i actually don’t think he will, but i know absolutely nothing about anything—that wouldn’t logically negate any sincere emotions he has for manhattan or his players.
by k. scott bailey on apr 7, 2011 2:47 pm cdt up reply actions breaking the news first takes precident over being accurate…or even truthful.
let others tell the national media stuff  like this while you say all the right things.
and beyond that, if we were truly loyal to frank martin the person, we would all continue to cheer him on in miami and hold a parade if miami wins the 2013 national championship.
by k. scott bailey on apr 9, 2011 10:20 am cdt up reply actions hire a sub-par coach?
so, none of us complaining would ever walk out on a job when the dream job beckoned?
by itchy n scratchy on apr 8, 2011 10:21 am cdt up reply actions i mean, “going in a different direction”?!?
frank then rolls out everything they are lacking that he wants.
k-state is a large, wealthy institution.
every coach/human is different.
by k. scott bailey on apr 8, 2011 12:58 pm cdt up reply actions bitchslapping texas since 1997 by mjk7166 on apr 8, 2011 1:51 pm cdt up reply actions imo, it’s a funny joke.
but perhaps you were watching the show on telemundo and he was “jorge”?
and sub par is being kind.
sure, frank leaves and we would take a certain joy in watching miami stay crappy.
this obviously isn’t an easy decision and he has to consider all the options.
as for frank not addressing the media about it … well, i could be wrong, but i think part of that is just him being a bit annoyed that people are making such a big deal of this when there is nothing to give it any credence.
that was almost an “in-house” hire since they knew what they were getting at least in respect to “who” and “what” he was.
and this is based on something he hasn’t done and possibly never will do.)
frankly, this is a mess.
but he's not  doing interviews with local media.
i imagine that thought has crossed his mind a time or two.
i’m not saying that frank is leaving.
by mac attack ict on apr 7, 2011 2:40 pm cdt up reply actions believing anything that comes out of the mouth of a college basketball coach
by yeahboozin on apr 7, 2011 3:41 pm cdt up reply actions great response, ‘boozin.
by k. scott bailey on apr 7, 2011 1:04 pm cdt up reply actions the idea that the miami job, even with a “commitment to the basketball program” and including a large financial incentive would be a better spot for martin (even with his ties to miami) than what he’s got here, is asinine.
not saying he leaves – but i won’t be surprised if he does.
i love the little town in southwest kansas where i grew up.
but i do agree with k.scott that it would make more sense for him to leap at the florida job if it opened up to him than the miami one.
and not just because i’m often drunk…) emotionally, we want and value “loyalty”.
surgeon general's warning: k-state-mizzou basketball may increase the risk of high blood pressure.
again, this can be deduced if one accepts this simple fact: no way in hell did it make sense for missouri to “lure” haith away from miami.
810 in kc said today that permission has been granted for martin to talk to miami.
which leads me to… c) if frank stays and his next two teams win 17 and 13 games, many of us would be calling for his firing.
i’d love to know who the “walk on coals” source is.
by williewannabe on apr 7, 2011 2:37 pm cdt up reply actions 1 recs frank has performed at a level that warrants a higher salary than he’s currently being paid.
(some stray elements were actually doing so during the january swoon.
by mystman995 on apr 7, 2011 4:43 pm cdt up reply actions 1 recs as has been pointed out numerous times on multiple threads, basketball doesn’t register at the u. its football and then baseball and then everything else.
if something comes up that just means so much more to him—and it’s likely a rare opportunity—then he has a tough decision to make.
if, and i emphasize if, frank goes to miami, missouri was in on it – i guarantee you.
i’m saying if he leaves, there will be back channel money going to miami in order to get the deal done.
if he chooses to leave because he has another opportunity he prefers then who are we to question him for it?
the only question at this point is whether frank's just trying to get a  raise and/or put pressure on adjc, or really does want the miami job.
this last comment was not directed at you scott, just including it on this post by xrayxtals on apr 7, 2011 2:18 pm cdt up reply actions why put yourself in a situation like that?
personally, i have no doubts that frank feels great loyalty toward his school and his player.
i understand the hypocrisy of calling him out for lack of loyalty and then demonstrating minimal loyalty in return.
it practically begs miami to make an offer.
didn’t stop him from bailing to fricking fairfield less than two weeks later, however.
oh well….i’m too lazy to go back and look.
by bracketcat on apr 7, 2011 1:45 pm cdt up reply actions because frank martin is not richard katz.
there hasn’t been people watching flight records.
i think they mean, “going in a cheaper and far less-talented direction.”
by ct-k-stater on apr 7, 2011 7:18 pm cdt up reply actions winning won’t even automatically make it better.
if i'd known i was going to live this long, i'd have taken better care of myself.
it does not grow on palm tress, even on south beach.
but i will still thank him for what he has done while he was here.
but i don’t think that just because “everyone” does it, or because it is “just a business” means that it is ok to be completely selfish and disloyal.
about 1 year ago bracketcat 107 comments 0 recs |tweet email print apr 2012 by ahearn alley - 42 comments apr 2012 by ahearn alley - 40 comments apr 2012 by ahearn alley - 20 comments mar 2012 by tb - 391 comments mar 2012 by panjandrum - 898 comments mar 2012 by bracketcat - 3 comments apr 2011 from big 12 hoops - 0 comments apr 2011 from big 12 hoops - 0 comments nov 2011 from big 12 hoops - 0 comments oct 2011 from the smoking musket - 33 comments dec 2011 from the smoking musket - 1 comment read more: frank martin, john currie, miami hurricanes, kansas st. wildcats display: expanded collapsed even while other national media were busy getting it wrong.
hence, where did they get the money — to make the guarantees – to lure frank away?
but it’s intellectually a bit silly and lazy to a) assume that if frank leaves, he was never loyal; b) think that leaving is an immoral or unethical choice; c) claim that k-state and the wildcats are “loyal” to him, (rather than just valuing a winning coach); or d) try to pretend that you wouldn’t under any circumstances resign your current job to get more money to live where you really, really would rather be living.
by k. scott bailey on apr 8, 2011 7:32 pm cdt up reply actions that most events in life are but a series of conspiracies?
i think the contradiction that many see is an emotional reaction and not one based on reason.
coach of the year (conference/national) 3.
if he leaves manhattan for non-competitive salaries, dismal fan support at all times, competition with pro sports, an administration that looks at basketball as a third-tier sport, and aging/run down facilities, i will be flabbergasted.
unless it’s about leveraging the situation for money, it is an easy decision.
(no, i haven’t eaten any magic mushrooms in months).
also, working for brad stevens for years can’t hurt.
by bracketcat on apr 8, 2011 2:43 pm cdt up reply actions parrish said in his article: " all miami has to do is secure the funds and make the call."
by k. scott bailey on apr 8, 2011 11:35 pm cdt up reply actions miami never even took a serious look at frank and now mizzou is stuck with a mediocre basketball coach.
all we can hope is that he’s just playing for more money…i kind of thought he wasn’t that type of person to begin with (leveraging outside developments to get a pay raise a year after you sign a new contract) , but i understand the incentive to get as much as you can when you can.
by bracketcat on apr 7, 2011 3:33 pm cdt up reply actions right on target with how i feel about the “coaching fraternity”… 'fact.
by k. scott bailey on apr 7, 2011 3:37 pm cdt up reply actions
but if i decide that i want to live back in the states again or need more money with a child on the way…i go.
and if miami throws $3mil/year at him and he takes that pos job, after everything he’s said about loyalty, then i’m done ever believing anything that comes out of the mouth of a college basketball coach.
he’s not going to say “never” when it’s possible miami could finally offer a huge contract or increase an existing offer that is not being made public at the moment.
$$$$$$ had something to do with it.
an 8,000 seat fieldhouse is irrellevant compared to the other revenue sources.
by bracketcat on apr 9, 2011 2:41 pm cdt up reply actions like it.
so far, this is just the media thinking out loud about possibilities.
it aint gonna be pretty.
if he were to move on, is this different than seinfeld pulling the plug on his show sooner than you would have wished?
my blogs: pakagankarachi.livejournal.com (dormant) burmahunkalove.livejournal.com (occasional signs of life) by mrhappymushroom on apr 8, 2011 12:26 am cdt up reply actions from his twitter: dislike using anonymous sources, but just got off the phone with source regarding frank martin situation.
in psychology, it’s called an “approach-approach conflict”.
"to all the fake fans that just jump on and off the bandwagon who think we suck go cheer for somebody down the road then" -jp by jb-kstate on apr 7, 2011 4:51 pm cdt reply actions by bracketcat on apr 7, 2011 4:52 pm cdt up reply actions link "to all the fake fans that just jump on and off the bandwagon who think we suck go cheer for somebody down the road then" -jp by jb-kstate on apr 7, 2011 4:57 pm cdt up reply actions i think mia needs to make the call to frank and if frank wants to go home then he needs to take the call.
by bracketcat on apr 7, 2011 12:55 pm cdt reply actions because they lack the fan support, etc that he loves at ksu?
i asked if there were actually any articles by legitimate newspapers to back it up.
if he takes the job,, he will have committed career suicide.
http://espn.go.com/mens-college-basketball/blog//name/katz andy/id/6303916/nba-draft-decisions-ahead by williewannabe on apr 7, 2011 4:26 pm cdt reply actions wonder if frank will be giving andy the time of day moving forward.
i’ll be pissed if frank goes and would end up rooting for miami to tank while the wildcats move on to the next level—and claiming some sort of moral high ground, this would be a more honest discussion.
so the idea of him leaving is what is driving the conversation.
by williewannabe on apr 7, 2011 2:16 pm cdt reply actions 2 recs because there’s no reason to leave, at least from any rational basketball sense.
he’s still young (35, i think), and he’s part of the villa 7 group that seems to continue churning out good head coaches from the assistant coaching ranks.
and to go a semi-ludicrous step further, we all would have stood up to the immoral terror of the nazis because it was the right thing to do, (and sacrificing one’s own well-being in the meantime)?
no they didn’t do it simply to get frank out of the conference.
please consult your doctor prior to watching any of these games.
at that point in our history, we were still hamstrung by an administration that didn’t care if ksu played in the big time athletically.
missouri hiring haith, who was on the hot seat at miami, makes no sense, unless, 2.