that bcs check better be big, because the travel cost are going to be astronomical!!
the tigers will be joining a big east that is losing pittsburgh and syracuse to the atlantic coast conference and west virginia to the big 12.
i'm not sure what that does to conference championship games, although it could make them irrelevent.
boise state joins the big  east in 2013 (football only).
this  material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
submit your engagement announcement.
the tigers will be seeing a lot more of their former rival when they join the big east in 2013.
"annual payouts to big east football members could approach $4 million in 2013, more than double what the u of m receives annually as a member of conference usa, according to boise state president bob kustra"
introducing a new forum on faith in memphis; be a part of it!
the theory is espn is not going to be interested because (the big east) said  no to them when they offered them $1 billion in their old form.''
this is not the big east memphis has dreamed of getting into for decades,'' saiddennis dodd, national college football columnist for cbssports.com. ''
others offered mixed reviews on what the big east affiliation will mean to the football program.
others offered mixed reviews on what the big east  affiliation will mean to the football program.
i wonder why boise st. is confirming that we will make more than double what we make in c-usa?
but despite a possibly de-valued television contract, the big east will elevate  u of m football by uniting it with perennial national power boise state, along  with solid programs at cincinnati, louisville and south florida.
after tuesday's approval by big east presidents to offer an invitation to  the u of m, the tigers have another reason to celebrate.
but many observers believe the automatic qualifier status will disappear  after the current bcs contract expires in 2013, meaning that the long-coveted  status as one of college football's big boys may lose much of its meaning by  the time the tigers join.
he couldn't say  that before.''
the tigers will be joining a big east that is losing pittsburgh and  syracuse to the atlantic coast conference and west virginia to the big 12.
no current big east team has ever won a bcs championship game.
be wasnt always a powerhouse in football!
at least we'll be with the better part of old c-usa, not the crappier part of c-usa we're leaving behind.
they did lose pitt and wvu in football, huge losses, but houston, smu, and ucf have the capability to be big time programs soon!
under this system the big east, the acc, or any other conference will face not having a team in the bcs if their best team(s) are not highly ranked.
web search powered by yahoo!
the program's  long-awaited search for inclusion in one of the six major conferences is over,  with the tigers set to begin big east play in 2013.
about the distance between rutgers and san diego st.
commitment to football + bcs money =
while a pleasing fact...
ongoing coverage of the school merger debate the case against three convicted murderers who maintain their innocence coverage of the 10-year anniversary of the 9/11 terror attacks memphis-area world war ii veterans take haunting pilgrimage can memphis tiger football change its stripes?
stay out of our town $ec!!!
that seems like an odd thing to tell another school you're joining conferences with.
same will apply to cusa teams memphis is in the be because of their commitment to basketball!
tuesday's news represents one of the most significant moments in tiger  football history, giving the u of m a better opportunity to compete with the  southeastern conference for talent in the region.
the same will be true for other new members of the be such as houston, smu, ucf and now memphis.
the  league's footprint will stretch from california to connecticut.
we will be competing for a bcs national title in a few years.
in two of the articles this was pretty much the last two paragraphs, there's the tricky matter of automatic qualifier status for college football's bowl championship series too.
neither of them are now in the conference.
we're no longer playing conference cupcakes.
memphis still won't be on equal footing with the sec programs it recruits against, but would ridgeway standout and georgia signee sheldon dawson have honored his commitment to the u of m had the tigers been in the big east?
yes, the big east in football will look a lot like c-usa 10 years ago.
no they were terrible,
they plucked the best programs for football, and the be may be a fairly well balanced, solid football conference going forward!
horror and heroism emerge in wake of smithville tornado
and what will that mean to a struggling football program, one that has dropped 31 of its past 36 games and hasn't had a winning season since 2007?
username * don't have an account?
under the current bcs contract, each  one of six conferences -- including the big east -- received an automatic bid  for its champion to play in one of the most lucrative bowls.
the league's footprint will stretch from california to connecticut.
the best in photography from memphis and beyond.
and there is no way in he|| that the b.e. retains aq status beyond 2013.
average attendance, which has hovered around the 20,000 mark, should spike, as well.
what is happening is that there will be no aq status for any conference, with the idea being that 3 sec schools or 3 big10 schools could now make the bcs.
but, c-usa 10 years ago was a heck of a conference and was rising fast.
but they got their hands on that bcs money and built their program up!
reset your password comment comments can be shared on facebook and yahoo!.
plus, there's no argument for basketball.
search photo by the commercial appeal files, mark weber/the commercial appeal files buy this photo » louisville's josh bellamy grabs a touchdown over memphis' mohammed seisay in 2010.
there's the tricky matter of automatic qualifier status for college  football's bowl championship series too.
it's unclear what the bcs' revenue structure would be in its new contract.
maybe it would be wise to wait until a big east team actually wins a national championship before we start talking about memphis competing for a national championship.
of the 6 bcs conferences, this proposed league is a distant 6th.
i was told the addition of pittsburgh and syracuse alone to the acc is worth more than what the new big east will be worth in football,'' dodd said. ''
this is our town!!!!!
does this mean arkansas state now will be playing teddy bear high instead of memphis ?
am i the only tiger fan who has researched the line-up for b.e. football in 2013?
i was told the addition of pittsburgh and syracuse alone to the acc is  worth more than what the new big east will be worth in football,'' dodd said.
in response to commonsense: only time will tell if the switch to the big east conference will provide the boost to tiger football that is being proposed today.
a founding member of conference usa in the mid-1990s, the u of m will benefit by having its basketball in arguably the nation's strongest conference.
get the latest news, scores and updates sent straight to your iphone
this material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
view this year's winners!
well, those games against teams from bowl championship series conferences  and the debut next fall of new coach justin fuente.
well, those games against teams from bowl championship series conferences and the debut next fall of new coach justin fuente.
average  attendance, which has hovered around the 20,000 mark, should spike, as well.
boise state joins the big east in 2013 (football only).
a series examining once-thriving properties in the memphis area
a founding member of conference usa in the mid-1990s, the u of m will  benefit by having its basketball in arguably the nation's strongest conference.
he couldn't say that before.''
sign up for a new account password * can't remember?
feels like: 26° humidity: 89% precip: 95% feels like: 34° humidity: 89% precip: 5% feels like: 43° humidity: 76% precip: 5% loading...more events » recognizing high school students in greater memphis for academic excellence find out what summer camps are happening in memphis.
annual payouts to big east football members could approach $4 million in 2013, more than double what the u of m receives annually as a member of conference usa, according to boise state president bob kustra.
why would the newly re-formed big east lose that status?
you agree not to post comments that are off topic, defamatory, obscene, abusive, threatening or an invasion of privacy.
this is only going to help fuente,'' fredi said.
seven of the 11 (all but boise, sdsu, rutgers and uconn) are former c-usa members.
and what will that mean to a struggling football program, one that has  dropped 31 of its past 36 games and hasn't had a winning season since 2007?
with that comes a  significant share of cash.
navy joins as a football-only member in 2015.
one last thing, "conference" road games in san diego, ca & boise, id?
it has nothing to do with the big east losing aq status.
memphis still won't be on  equal footing with the sec programs it recruits against, but would ridgeway  standout and georgia signee sheldon dawson have honored his commitment to the u  of m had the tigers been in the big east?
the theory is espn is not going to be interested because (the big east) said no to them when they offered them $1 billion in their old form.''
there's the tricky matter of automatic qualifier status for college football's bowl championship series too.
add both options by connecting your profiles.
but despite a possibly de-valued television contract, the big east will elevate u of m football by uniting it with perennial national power boise state, along with solid programs at cincinnati, louisville and south florida.
this is not the big east memphis has dreamed of getting into for  decades,'' saiddennis dodd, national college football columnist for  cbssports.com. ''
with that comes a significant share of cash.
''now justin fuente will be able to walk into a kid's living room and say,  'we can compete for a national championship,''' said mike fredi, president of  the highland hundred, the u of m's football booster group. ''
see the results » view previous polls »
in response to larryporterfan: the $ec bottom feeders better stop trying to come into memphis for players.
but many observers believe the automatic qualifier status will disappear after the current bcs contract expires in 2013, meaning that the long-coveted status as one of college football's big boys may lose much of its meaning by the time the tigers join.
''now justin fuente will be able to walk into a kid's living room and say, 'we can compete for a national championship,''' said mike fredi, president of the highland hundred, the u of m's football booster group. ''
national title football boy put the pipe down only time will tell if the switch to the big east conference will provide the boost to tiger football that is being proposed today.
dodd said big east football for 2013 -- memphis, cincinnati, louisville, houston, smu, central florida, south florida, boise state, san diego state, uconn and rutgers -- will have a c-usa familiarity and lack marketability.
the commercial appeal's free eco-friendly publication.
i cant believe i said that
it's unclear what the bcs' revenue structure would be  in its new contract.
i know that the marquee reads 'big east', but when i close my eyes, i smell c-usa.
fuente's second recruiting class should be better than his first.
a new generation of mobile content delivery is now available!
cusa is a pretty decent conference for football and baseball, so people naturally judge cusa by basketball which has been a one horse race primarily for the last decade...
ole siss and other cellar dwellers will still be trying to win 3 game!!
better programs also, alot of people who are predicting bcs auto qualifier will be pulled from the be, wait and see.
in response to dmccrosky: in two of the articles this was pretty much the last two paragraphs, there's the tricky matter of automatic qualifier status for college football's bowl championship series too.
click here for our full user agreement.
-- phil stukenborg: (901) 529-2543 © 2012 memphis commercial appeal.
did cincy have marketability when they first joined?
before news of a reported move to the big east conference surfaced tuesday, the university of memphis football program's future schedules -- games against louisville and miami in 2014 and miami, louisville, missouri and kansas in 2015 -- were what excited tiger fans most.
the program's long-awaited search for inclusion in one of the six major conferences is over, with the tigers set to begin big east play in 2013.
it is a marginal step up.''
how much did it cost to lure a global corporation to memphis?
building the next generation of musicians.
tuesday's news represents one of the most significant moments in tiger football history, giving the u of m a better opportunity to compete with the southeastern conference for talent in the region.
the t-i-g-e-r-s own this town!!!
the $ec bottom feeders better stop trying to come into memphis for players.
its kind of a "reunion" with many of the former conference usa teams that earlier morphed with the big east leftovers.
win 20 malco movie tickets by outguessing film critic john beifuss nominations are now open for the 2012 jefferson awards.
comments are the sole responsibility of the person posting them.
now here is my question, and for the life of my i can't understand why the ca didn't have an explanation or a small story explaining this, what are the guidelines that are used to allow a conference to remain aq or to loose it's aq status?
violators may be banned.
how is this better than c-usa today, just asking?
but, as a tiger fan, if the university thinks that this is the best course, i will continue to support.
memphis officials are remaining mum until today's noon news conference announcing the move.
not sure if you mean "c-usa today" or c-usa after houston, smu, and cenral florida are gone?
after tuesday's approval by big east presidents to offer an invitation to the u of m, the tigers have another reason to celebrate.
under the current bcs contract, each one of six conferences -- including the big east -- received an automatic bid for its champion to play in one of the most lucrative bowls.
annual payouts to big east football members could approach $4 million in 2013,  more than double what the u of m receives annually as a member of conference  usa, according to boise state president bob kustra.
memphis officials are remaining mum until today's noon news conference  announcing the move.
dodd said big east football for 2013 -- memphis, cincinnati, louisville,  houston, smu, central florida, south florida, boise state, san diego state,  uconn and rutgers -- will have a c-usa familiarity and lack marketability.
seven of the 11 (all but boise, sdsu, rutgers and uconn) are former c-usa  members.
the big east has had two teams play in the championship game, miami and west virginia.