retrieved 2005-12-28.
the offensive line (ol) consists of five players whose job is to protect the passer and clear the way for runners by blocking members of the defense.
although the ifaf has relatively little  standing in the u.s. compared to the nfl, ncaa, and the other established  aforementioned bodies, these same organizations also give support tousa
the bethany "terrible swedes" defeated the swedish all-star team  72–7 instockholm olympic stadium.[44] the nfl has attempted to introduce the game to other nations and operated a  developmental league,nfl europa (also known as the world league of american  football and nfl europe) with teams in various european cities, but this league  was closed down following the 2007 season.
ncaa and high school rules specify only that offensive linemen must have  numbers in the 50–79 range, but the ncaa "strongly recommends"  that quarterbacks and running backs have numbers below 50 and wide receivers  numbers above 79.[30]
israel — games are governed by the israeli football league .
ronald reagan: how an ordinary man became an extraordinary leader.
wikimedia commons has media related to:american football international american football - movie of 1903 football game between the university of chicago and the university of michigan - national football league official signals.
gridiron: on its way to wembley.
seeterms of use for details.
archived fromthe original on 2007-08-08.
official playing rules of the national football league".
norway — a rising number of teams (11 in 2010) compete in  a two division league structure (division i which determines a national  champion by a postseason playoff, and division 2 where newer and smaller teams  are allowed to mature).
also included on special teams are the  returners.
air force academy quarterback shea smith prepares to throw a pass.
http://www.nfl.com/history/chronology/1869-1910.
- ^ a b "what it was was football!".
- ^ "dementia risk seen in players in n.f.l. study" article byalan schwarz in the new york times september 29, 2009 - ^
the finalists from the playoffs determine the german champion during thegerman bowl.
poland — games are governed by the polish american  football league.
in college football, if the defense intercepts or recovers a fumble during a one or two point conversion attempt and returns it to the opposing end zone, the defensive team is awarded the two points.
physicality main articles: health issues in american football and  american football protective equipment a halfback leads fellow backs  through an agility drill at the air force academy football is a collision sport.
the ball is kicked using a kicking tee from the team's own 35 yard line in the nfl (as of the 2011 season) and 30 yard line in college football (as of the 2007 season).
the players are usually required to follow a hydration schedule.
examples include the now defunctxfl, the united states football league, and the proposed all american football league.
kickoffs and free kicks the florida state seminoles (in red, at top) line up to kick off to thevirginia tech hokies.
taking over previous league (national football league italy).
however, they can spell disaster if the opposing team realizes the deception and acts accordingly.
its championship game is theshamrock bowl.
main article:american football positions see also: formation (american  football)
retrieved 2005-12-24.
it is a long-standing tradition in the united states (though not universally observed) that high school football games are played on friday night, college games on saturday, and professional games on sunday.
http://www.scarletknights.com/football/history/first-game.asp.
- ^ a b "penalty summaries".
they can play  either like wide receivers (catch passes) or like offensive linemen (protect  the qb or create spaces for runners).
most trainers and  coaches make it imperative for their players to drink fluids before they are  thirsty.[36] brain injury the concussions committee of the nfl, co-chaired by dr. ira casson, has  generally denied that concussions result in permanent brain injury.
this, along with  the demanding physicality of football (see below), is why teams typically play  at most one game per week.
retrieved 2008-11-24.
these are referred to as play-action passes and draws, respectively.
in addition, the champions of six  conferences in the division i bowl subdivision receive automatic bids, and four  other schools receive "at-large" bids, to those five bowl games under  the highly lucrativebowl championship series to help determine the national  champion.
these  protective pads were introduced decades ago and have improved ever since to  help minimize lastinginjury to players.
snowboarding • speed skating former olympic sports baseball • basque pelota • cricket • croquet • golf •jeu de paume •
certain fall and winter holidays—such as the nfl's thanksgiving classic and numerous new year's day college bowl games—have traditional football games associated with them.
instead, teams are invited to compete in a number of post-seasonbowl games.
forward pass in progress, during practice.
it is a long-standing tradition in the united states (though not  universally observed) that high school football games are played on friday  night, college games on saturday, and professional games on sunday.
beginning in 2006, the nfl began schedulinggames on thursday nights in mid-november, aired on thenfl network; nfl games have also been scheduled on saturday nights toward the end of the season.
few centers today wear 50-range numbers, which denoted their former seldom-used status as eligible receivers.
more rigorous research is being conducted by dr. casson,  neurologist, for the nfl.
each of these are played under slightly different rules.[3] high school football is governed by the national federation of state high school associations and college football by the national collegiate athletic association and national association of intercollegiate athletics.
one side throws the ball to the other side.
beginning in 2006, the nfl began schedulinggames on thursday nights in  mid-november, aired on thenfl network; nfl games have also been scheduled on  saturday nights toward the end of the season.
a long term goal of the ifaf is for american football to be accepted by the  international olympic committee as an olympic sport.[49] the only time that the  sport was played wasat the 1932 summer olympics in los angeles, but as a  demonstration sport.
- ^ annual survey of football injury research 1931–2005, national center for catastrophic sport injury research.
americas pafaf europe efaf · eurobowl · efl · efaf cup · efaf challenge cup · efaf atlantic cup · efaf euro top 20 oceania ofaf gridiron football concepts codes - american - canadian (us–canadian comparison) - arena - indoor - 9-man - 8-man - 6-man - flag - touch - street/backyard levels of play - high school - college - sprint - women's - professional field - end zone - goal line - red zone - line of scrimmage - neutral zone - field goal range - out of bounds - sidelines equipment - football (ball) - helmet - shoulder pads - uniform number positions offense - quarterback - running backs (halfback, fullback, h-back) - receivers (wide receiver, tight end, slotback) - linemen (center, guard, tackle) defense - linemen (defensive tackle, defensive end, nose tackle) - linebacker - defensive back (cornerback, safety, nickelback, dimeback, halfback) special teams - placekicker - punter - kickoff specialist - long snapper - holder - punt returner - kickoff returner - return specialist - gunner other - utility player - triple-threat man - skill position - game manager play types offense - rush - pass - incomplete pass - lateral - bootleg play - draw play - end-around - flea flicker - flexbone formation - fourth down conversion - hail mary pass - halfback option play - hook and lateral - kneel - motion - hurry-up offense - option run - option offense - play-action pass - quarterback keeper - quarterback sneak - quick kick - reverse - scramble - screen pass - spike - statue of liberty - sweep - tackle-eligible - trick play - wildcat formation defense - tackle - blitz - rush - sack - shooting the gap - stunt - zone blitz special teams - kickoff - kickoff return - punt - punt return - drop kick - fair catch - fair catch kick - icing the kicker - onside kick - squib kick - conversion scoring - touchdown - point after touchdown - two-point conversion - field goal - safety - single (rouge) penalties - blocking below the waist - block in the back - chop block - clipping - delay of game - encroachment - equipment violations - face mask - false start - helmet-to-helmet collision - horse-collar tackle - illegal contact - illegal formation - illegal forward kick - illegal forward pass - illegal hands to the face - illegal motion - illegal participation - illegal shift - illegal substitution - illegal touching - illegal touching of a free kick - illegal use of hands - ineligible receiver downfield - intentional grounding - holding - leaping - neutral zone infraction - offside - palpably unfair act - pass interference - personal foul - roughing the kicker - roughing the passer - roughing the snapper - sideline infraction - spearing - time count - tripping - unsportsmanlike conduct turnovers - fumble - interception - muffed punt - turnover on downs downs - first down - three-and-out - fourth down conversion play clock - timeout - two-minute warning - running out the clock - untimed play - garbage time statistics - passer rating - reception - receiving yards - return yards - total offense - yards from scrimmage - all-purpose yardage - touchdown pass celebrations - touchdown celebration - gatorade shower officiating - officials - penalty flag - chain crew miscellaneous - snap - dead ball - touchback - instant replay - coffin corner - resting the starters - glossary of american football - glossary of canadian football - rules - rules in american football interdependent team sports - sport - governing bodies - sportspeople - national sport basket sports - basketball (beach, deaf, fiba 33, water, wheelchair) - cestoball - korfball - netball (fastnet, indoor, wheelchair) - slamball football codes - association football (beach, futsal, indoor, paralympic, street) - australian rules football (lightning football, metro footy, nine-a-side, rec footy) - gaelic football (ladies')
these were the first professional or  semi-professional american football teams to play organized games on the  european continent.
for instance, a safety is scored by the defense if an offensive player is tackled, goes out of bounds, or fumbles the ball out of bounds in his own end zone.[16] safeties are relatively rare.
if the kick returner catches the ball in his own end zone, he can either run with the ball, or elect for atouchback by kneeling in the end zone, in which case the receiving team then starts its offensive drive from its own 20 yard line.
another professional league, the 5-team  united football league, also currently operates.
steroid use may also play a role.
they also block, catch passes and, on rare occasions,  pass the ball to others or even receive the snap.
in general, high school teams play only against other teams within the  samestate, but there are some exceptions like nearby schools located on  opposite sides of a state line.
calendar amateurs playing on thanksgiving
each team has 11 players on the field at a time.
in the nfl, ranges of uniform numbers are (usually) reserved for certain  positions: 1–19:
the major league for professional football is the national football league.
http://web.archive.org/web/20051127032944/http://www.thesportjournal.org/2005journal/vol8-no4/starkey.asp .
sometimes an offensive lineman takes the  tight end position and is referred to as atackle eligible.[21] at least seven players must line up on the line of scrimmage on every  offensive play.
[ 46] leagues by country main article: list of leagues of american and canadian football - australia — gridiron australia is the overall governing body for american football in australia.
national institute for occupational safety and health.
- ^ louis s. leland (1984) personal kiwi-yankee dictionary pelican publishing company, 1984 - ^ "gridiron."
rowing • sailing •shooting • swimming • synchronized swimming • table tennis •taekwondo • tennis • triathlon •
they line up between the defensive line and defensive backs and may either rush the quarterback or cover potential receivers.
the danger of football, and the equipment required to reduce it, make regulation football impractical for casual play.
the league's name comes from the name of the championship  trophyvaahteramalja ("maple bowl"), which was donated to the  newly formed association by the embassy of canada in finland.
for comparison, thenational  hockey league and national basketball association traditionally play an 82-game  regular season over the course of six months, plus a postseason composed of  four rounds of best-of-seven series.
[dead link] - ^ young, eric (2005-03-16).
as such, the sport is played in a wide range of weather conditions, from the heat and humidity of late summer, to the cold winds and snow in mid-winter.
in previous years with less  padding, tackling more closely resembled tackles inrugby football.
the nfl draft is usually held in april, in which eligible college football players are selected by nfl teams, the order of selection determined by the teams' final regular season records.
http://www.footballresearch.com/articles/frpage.cfm?topic=d-to1889.
note the continued use of a rugby-type ball (front row, right).
- serbia — teams in the nacionalna liga srbije compete in the serbian bowl.
unlike the three smaller ncaa football divisions, the division i bowl subdivision does not have an organized tournament to determine its national champion.
blockers and defenders trying to evade them also have wide leeway in trying to force their opponents out of the way.
it is increasingly rare, for example, for nfl  quarterbacks or running backs (who take the most direct hits) to make it  through an entire season without missing some time to injury.[citation needed ] additionally, 28 football players died from direct football injuries in  the years 2000–05 and an additional 68 died indirectly from dehydration  or other examples of "non-physical" dangers, according to the  national center for catastrophic sport injury research.[33] concussions are  common, with about 41,000 suffered every year among high school players
http://blogs.cdc.gov/niosh-science-blog/2012/01/nfl/. retrieved 2 february 2012.
a season typically begins in  mid-to-late august and runs through december, into january.
retrieved 2007-05-16.
the journey to camp: the origins of american football to 1889.
thencaa will also play games outside of the u.s. in 2012, the united  states naval academy will play the university of notre dame indublin, ireland.
rules main article: american football rules field and players the numbers on the field indicate the number ofyards to the nearest goal line.
the injuries that do result tend to be severe and often season or career-ending and sometimes fatal.
this helps officials, as it means that numbers 50 to 79  areineligible receivers, or players that may not receive a forward pass  (except in the rare instance when a tackle lines up as the outermost lineman on  his side of the line and the officials are notified that he will be an eligible  receiver for that particular play).
- a field goal (fg) is worth 3 points, and it is scored by kicking the ball through the goalposts defended by the opposition.[16] field goals may be place kicked (kicked when the ball is held vertically against the ground by a teammate) ordrop kicked (extremely uncommon in the modern game due to the better accuracy of place kicks, with only two successful drop kicks in sixty-plus years in the nfl).
depending upon the level of competition, the duration of the half-time ranges from 10 to 20 minutes.
nfl enterprises llc.. 2009.
in addition, the champions of six conferences in the division i bowl subdivision receive automatic bids, and four other schools receive "at-large" bids, to those five bowl games under the highly lucrativebowl championship series to help determine the national champion.
"sweden's first shot at football a success despite 72–7 defeat".
passes that are thrown either backwards or parallel with the line of scrimmage (lateral passes) that are not caught do not cause the down to end as incomplete forward passes do; instead the ball is still live as if it had been fumbled.
- japan — the x-league is a professional league with 60 teams in four divisions, usingpromotion and relegation.
although the ifaf has relatively little standing in the u.s. compared to the nfl, ncaa, and the other established aforementioned bodies, these same organizations also give support tousa
american football is closely related to canadian football but with some differences in rules and the field.[4] both sports can be traced to early versions ofassociation football and rugby football.
it is very rare for football teams at  any level to play more than one game in a week.
a running back being tackled when he tries to run with the ball.
these were the first professional or semi-professional american football teams to play organized games on the european continent.
http://www.ncaa.org/library/rules/2005/2005_football_rules.pdf.
serbia — teams in the nacionalna liga srbije compete in  the serbian bowl.
althoughthanksgiving was the traditional end of the season for  most college and early professional teams, playoffs and extended seasons have  pushed seasons further into the winter season.
ireland — the irish american football league consists of  14 teams.
most penalties result in replaying the down.
lawrence, mark (2002–2005).
http://www.library.georgetown.edu/special-collections/archives/essays/football.
in this last case, possession is awarded at the spot where the recovering player is ruled down.
- running backs (rb) line up behind or beside the qb and specialize in running with the ball.
national football league.
retrieved 2007-05-15.
they line up between  the defensive line and defensive backs and may either rush the quarterback or  cover potential receivers.
certain fall and winter holidays—such as the nfl's thanksgiving  classic and numerous new year's day college bowl games—have traditional  football games associated with them.
the elfi will be india's firstprofessional american  football league, and its launch is backed by thegovernment of india and the  sports authority of india.[48] all of the first season's games will be held in  pune at the shree shiv chhatrapati sports complex.
- ^ member – pro football hall of fame - ^ "2011
on the other hand, if it needs 20 yards, it may replace all of its running backs and tight ends with wide receivers.
- the last line of defense is known as the secondary, comprising at least three players who line up asdefensive backs, who are either cornerbacks or safeties.
three important special-teams players are the punter, who handles  punts, theplacekicker or kicker, who kicks off and attempts field goals  and extra points, and thelong snapper, who snaps the ball for extra  points, field goals, and punts.
- the quarterback (qb) receives the snap from the center on most plays.
according to the brain injury association of arizona.[34]
weightlifting • wrestling winter sports alpine skiing • biathlon • bobsleigh • cross-country skiing •curling • figure skating • freestyle skiing • ice hockey •luge • nordic combined • short track speed skating • skeleton • ski jumping •
the  exact number of running backs, wide receivers and tight ends may differ on any  given play.
- italy — the italian football league was founded in 2008,
at the college and nfl levels, most play only offense or only defense.
- "playing with the percentages when trailing by two touchdowns".
better helmets have allowed players to use their helmets as weapons.
players may now hurl themselves at one another at high speeds without a  significant chance of injury.
in the late 19th and early 20th centuries, game play developments by college coaches such aseddie cochems, amos alonzo stagg, knute rockne, and glenn "pop" warner helped take advantage of the newly introduced forward pass.
several semi-professional,  women's semi-professional football, andindoor football leagues are also played  across the country.
because teams can change any or all of the players between plays,  the number of players at certain positions may differ on a given play.
when the down ends, the team that did not commit the foul has the option of accepting the penalty, or declining the penalty and accepting the result of the down.
among these important changes were the introduction of theline of scrimmage and of down-and-distance rules.
on the other hand, if it  needs 20 yards, it may replace all of its running backs and tight ends with  wide receivers.
behind the defensive line are the linebackers.
two teams (oslo vikings and eidsvoll 1814s)
team usa, which had not participated in the previous world cups, won the title in 2007 and 2011.
in much of the world, the term football is unambiguous and refers to association football (known commonly as 'soccer' in theunited states).
1 october 2007.isbn 1699780288.
they also faced a greater risk ofcardiomyopathy.
most american high schools field football  teams.
there are  also over 200 universities fielding teams, with the national collegiate  championship determined by thekoshien bowl.
http://static.nfl.com/static/content/public/image/rulebook/pdfs/2011_rule_book.pdf .
in an nfl playoff game, additional overtime periods are played, as needed, to determine a winner.
football is played on a field 360 by 160 feet (120.0 by 53.3 yards; 109.7 by 48.8 meters).[11] the longer boundary lines are sidelines, while the shorter boundary lines areend lines.
the exact number of running backs, wide receivers and tight ends may differ on any given play.
most american high schools field football teams.
accessed october 31, 2006 - ^ d'souza, dinesh (february 23, 1999).
teams also kick off after scoring touchdowns and field goals.
volleyball • water polo •
- ^ bath, richard (ed.)
- israel — games are governed by the israeli football league .
an unintended consequence of all the safety equipment has resulted in increasing levels of violence in the game.
these players return punts or kickoffs and try to get in good field  position.
there are no numbering restrictions on defensive players in the ncaa, other than that a team may not have two players on the field at the same time with the samejersey number.[31] basic strategy main article: american football strategy because the game stops after every down, giving teams a chance to call a new play, strategy plays a major role in football.
in certain areas, high school football teams also hold spring practices.
if the  opposing team catches the ball, that player tries to run to the throwing teams  touchdown without being tagged/tackled.
in the 1970s, the nfl began to schedule one game on monday nights.
offensive players line up facing defensive players at theline of scrimmage (the position on the field where the play begins).
http://und.cstv.com/sports/m-footbl/spec-rel/111005aac.html.
in 1985, bethany college head coach and future college football hall of fame memberted kessinger brought the first american football team to play in sweden .
- the offense punts the ball to the defense.
http://news.google.com/newspapers?id=c_opaaaaibaj&sjid=lv0daaaaibaj&pg=6864,2898012&dq=chicago-lions+europe+football+newton&hl=en .
quarterbacks, punters and placekickers (by rule)[22] - 20–49: running backs and defensive backs (by rule)[23] - 50–59: centers and linebackers (by custom)[24] - 60–79: offensive guards and tackles (mandatory),[25] defensive guards and tackles (by custom) - 10–19, 80–89: wide receivers (by rule)[26] - 80–89 (by rule),[27] 40-49 (optional): tight ends - 90–99: defensive ends and linebackers (by custom) - players who switch positions in their career can keep their number if they played their prior position for at least a year and move from a position that is eligible to receive passes to another eligible position, or if he is moving from one ineligible position to another ineligible position.[28][29] players wearing numbers between 50 and 79 inclusive are ineligible to receive forward passes, unless they "report as eligible" to the official.
this is commonly known as  a blindside.
this helps officials, as it means that numbers 50 to 79 areineligible receivers, or players that may not receive a forward pass (except in the rare instance when a tackle lines up as the outermost lineman on his side of the line and the officials are notified that he will be an eligible receiver for that particular play).
unlike with punts, once a kickoff goes 10 yards and the ball has hit the ground, it can be recovered by the kicking team.[18] a team, especially one who is losing, can try to take advantage of this by attempting anonside kick.
if a field goal is missed or blocked and the ball remains in the field of play, a defensive player may pick up the ball and attempt to advance it.
indoor football  is played primarily in spring for this same reason; leagues that are based in  europe and asia also generally play an earlier season.
these roles  have varied over the history of american football.
the finalists from the playoffs  determine the german champion during thegerman bowl.
ideally, each play is a scripted,  strategically sound team-coordinated endeavor.
in the nfl, ranges of uniform numbers are (usually) reserved for certain positions: - 1–19:
however,  there is some research, reported in 2009, which, using phone interviews based  on thenational health interview survey, showed increased incidence of diagnosis  ofmemory loss and dementia among retired professional football players; chronic  traumatic encephalopathy diagnoses are increasingly common among deceased  football players.
a play ends when a defender removes a designated token ("flag") worn by the ball carrier.
to stop the offense from advancing the ball, the defense must tackle the player with the ball by knocking or pulling him down.
the professionalcanadian football league and collegiate canadian interuniversity sport play under the slightly differentcanadian rules.
in australia and new zealand the  game is also known asgridiron football, or more commonly as gridiron,[1][39]  although in the united states the termgridiron refers only to the  playing field itself.[40]
a down ends, and the ball becomes dead, after any of the following: - the player with the ball is forced to the ground (a tackle) or has his forward progress halted by members of the other team (as determined by an official).
japan won the first two world cups, held in 1999 and 2003.
"[35] extra and optional equipment such as neck rolls, spider pads, rib protectors (referred to as "flak jackets"), andelbow pads help against injury as well, though they do not tend to be used by the majority of players due to their lack of requirement.
water skiing • see also: paralympic sports retrieved from " http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=american_football&oldid=478648105 " categories: hidden categories: - american football - sports originating in the united states - 1869 introductions - football codes - all articles with dead external links - articles with dead external links from june 2011 - wikipedia indefinitely semi-protected pages - all articles with unsourced statements - articles with unsourced statements from september 2010 personal tools namespaces variants views - read - view source - view history actions search navigation - main page - contents - featured content - current events - random article - donate to wikipedia interaction - help - about wikipedia - community portal - recent changes - contact wikipedia toolbox - what links here - related changes - upload file - special pages - permanent link - cite this page print/export - create a book - download as pdf - printable version languages - afrikaans - ænglisc - العربية - azərbaycanca - беларуская - български - bosanski - català - česky - dansk - deitsch - deutsch - eesti - español - esperanto - euskara - فارسی - fiji hindi - føroyskt - français - frysk - gaeilge - gàidhlig - galego - 한국어 - हिन्दी - hrvatski - bahasa indonesia - íslenska - italiano - עברית - ಕನ್ನಡ - latviešu - lietuvių - magyar - മലയാളം - मराठी - bahasa melayu - nederlands - 日本語 - norsk (bokmål) - norsk (nynorsk)
japan — the x-league is a professional league with 60  teams in four divisions, usingpromotion and relegation.
running backs (rb) line up behind or beside the qb and specialize  in running with the ball.
in a survey of more than 3,000 retired players, 9% reported  having usedanabolic steroids while playing.
while in his own end zone, an offensive ball carrier is tackled, forced out of bounds, loses the ball out of bounds, or the offense commits certain fouls in the end zone.
six-man football smaller field the arena football league is a league that plays eight-man football, but  also plays indoors and on a much smaller playing surface with rule changes to  encourage a much more offensive game.
eidsvoll was the  runner-up in efaf cup 2006.
a punt is a kick in which a player drops the ball and kicks it before it hits the ground.
the league's name comes from the name of the championship trophyvaahteramalja ("maple bowl"), which was donated to the newly formed association by the embassy of canada in finland.
- finland — the vaahteraliiga or the maple league has eight teams.
the highest level major professional league in the united states is the 32-teamnational football league (nfl).
except for the center, who snaps the ball to one of the backs, offensive linemen generally do not handle the ball.
for example, a "blitz" (using linebackers or defensive backs to charge the quarterback) is often attempted when the team on defense expects a pass.
for comparison, thenational hockey league and national basketball association traditionally play an 82-game regular season over the course of six months, plus a postseason composed of four rounds of best-of-seven series.
- ^ a b c "coin toss".
here the offense is in the normal i-formation while the defense is in a 4–3 normal.
st. petersburg times.
- ^ "europe to get a look at american football".
universal football australian rules football and rugby league volata association football and team handball polocrosse polo and lacrosse korfball netball and basketball slamball basketball and football kronum handball, football, basketball and rugby circle rules football association football, basketball, volleyball, ice hockey and wrestling olympic sports summer sports archery • athletics • badminton • basketball • boxing •canoeing • cycling • diving • equestrian • field hockey •
points can be scored by carrying the ball over the opponent's goal line, catching a pass thrown over that goal line,kicking the ball through the opponent's goal posts or tackling an opposing ball carrier in his own end zone.
two rows of short lines, known as inbounds lines orhash marks, run at 1-yard (91.4 cm) intervals perpendicular to the sidelines near the middle of the field.
in contrast to members of the offense, the rules of professional football ( nfl rulebook) and american college football (ncaa rulebook) do not specify starting position, movement, or coverage zones for members of the defensive team, except that they must be in the defensive zone at the start of play.
tight ends (te) line up next to the offensive line.
accessed october 31, 2006 - ^
uniform numbering quarterback shaun carney has uniform number 5.
http://www.efli.com/letter-from-the-founder.php - ^ http://sports.yahoo.com/nfl/news?slug=ycn-8919377 - ^
a blitz makes downfield passing more difficult but  exposes the defense to big gains if the offensive line stems the rush.
"s.f. 49ers, arizona cardinals to kick off in mexico".
external links look up american football in wiktionary, the free dictionary.
players this diagram shows typical offensive and defensive  formations.
retrieved 2007-08-15.
many hours of preparation and strategizing, including film review by both  players and coaches, go into the days between football games.
in the extremely rare instance that a safety is scored on a try, it is worth only 1 point.
these teams mostly play other similarly sized schools, through the ncaa's divisional system, which divides the schools into four divisions:division i bowl subdivision, division i championship subdivision, division ii, and division iii.
- after a touchdown, the scoring team attempts a try (which is also analogous to theconversion in rugby).
eidsvoll was the runner-up in efaf cup 2006.
except at the beginning of halves and after scores, the ball is always put into play by asnap.
they also block, catch passes and, on rare occasions, pass the ball to others or even receive the snap.
montana state university.
to deceive the other team, some passing plays are designed to resemble running plays and vice versa.
- ^ "2011 official playing rules of the national football league".
these practices typically end with an intramural  scrimmage open to the public.
the popularity of collegiate football grew as it became the dominant version of the sport for the first half of the twentieth century.
they also faced a greater  risk ofcardiomyopathy.
he then hands or tosses it to a running back, throws it to a receiver or  runs with it himself.
rule 5, section 1, article 2 - ^ 2009–10 ncaa football rules and interpretations rule 1, section 4, article 1 retrieved july 27, 2010 - ^ 2009–10 ncaa football rules and interpretations rule 1, section 4, article 2, c retrieved july 27, 2010 - ^ diehl, jerry l., ed. 1999 and 2000 nfhs football handbook.
flag football and touch football  are less violent variants of the game popular among recreational players.
these players can also score touchdowns.
among them, offensive and defensive linemen were the most likely to report use (16.3% and 14.8%, respectively).[38] organization in the united states main article: american football in the united states in the united states, the major forms are high school football, college football and professional football.
the ifaf and the american football world cup main article:  international federation of american football the international federation of american football (ifaf) is the de facto governing body for american football, with 45 member associations from  north and south america, europe, asia and oceania.
georgetown university library special collections.
professional football researchers association.
to stop the offense from advancing the ball,  the defense must tackle the player with the ball by knocking or pulling him  down.
quarterbacks are regularly hit by defenders coming on full speed from outside the quarterback's field of vision.
the increased incidence of heart disease may be  attributed to highbmi measurements: retired players—notably offensive and  defensive linemen—with a playing-time bmi of 30 or more had double the  risk of dying from heart disease as compared to other players.
american football from wikipedia, the free encyclopedia jump to:navigation, search for other uses, see american football (disambiguation).
another professional league, the 5-team united football league, also currently operates.
- they may choose which goal to defend.
these protective pads were introduced decades ago and have improved ever since to help minimize lastinginjury to players.
the other team's kick returner tries to catch the ball and advance it as far as possible.
ncaa and high school rules specify only that offensive linemen must have numbers in the 50–79 range, but the ncaa "strongly recommends" that quarterbacks and running backs have numbers below 50 and wide receivers numbers above 79.[30]
the elementary school journal: sports and physical education 91 (1991): 445–56.
the american heritage dictionary of the english language, fourth edition.
- ^ "notre dame and navy extend series 10 more years :: irish and midshipmen will meet at least until 2016, with the 2012 meeting set to be in dublin, ireland".
except for the center, who snaps the  ball to one of the backs, offensive linemen generally do not handle the ball.
most trainers and coaches make it imperative for their players to drink fluids before they are thirsty.[36] brain injury the concussions committee of the nfl, co-chaired by dr. ira casson, has generally denied that concussions result in permanent brain injury.
in the united states, the major forms are high school football, college football and professional football.
if the pass is thrown down-field, it is known as a forward pass.
the quarterback is the leader of the offense and calls  the plays that are signaled to him from the sidelines.
scoring main article: american_football_rules#scoring a team scores points by the following plays: - a touchdown (td) is worth 6 points.[16] it is scored when a player runs the ball into or catches a pass in his opponent's end zone.[16] a touchdown is analogous to atry in rugby.
each half begins with a kickoff.
"league modifies numbering system".
near each end of the field is agoal line; they are 100 yards (91.4 m) apart.
see gridiron football for further information and sources.
hungary — 18 registered teams participate in the mafl's  two-division league structure.
to compensate for this, players must wear special protective equipment, such as a padded plastichelmet, shoulder pads, hip pads and knee pads.
this repeats until time runs out or the players decide to quit.
http://www.bizjournals.com/sanfrancisco/stories/2005/03/14/daily27.html.
steroid use may  also play a role.
football , the designated u.s. representative to the ifaf.
[ 46] leagues by country main article: list of leagues of american and  canadian football australia — gridiron australia is the overall governing  body for american football in australia.
a season typically begins in mid-to-late august and runs through december, into january.
- norway — a rising number of teams (11 in 2010) compete in a two division league structure (division i which determines a national champion by a postseason playoff, and division 2 where newer and smaller teams are allowed to mature).
retrieved july 27, 2010.
concussions are common, with about 41,000 suffered every year among high school players according to the brain injury association of arizona.[34]
the nfl playoffs run further through january, and thesuper bowl is often played in the first week of february.
other plays have the potential for long  gains but at a greater risk of a loss of yardage or a turnover.
- ^ "nfl:america's choice" (pdf).
the other players may line up anywhere behind the line.
nfl enterprises llc. 2009.
players may now hurl themselves at one another at high speeds without a significant chance of injury.
a play ends when a defender wraps his arms round the ball carrier.
retrieved 2009-04-05.
outside the center are the guards, and outside them are the tackles.
this article describes the american variant.
http://www.nfl.com/rulebook/penaltysummaries.
a quarterback searching for an opportunity to throw a pass.
rule 5, section 1, article 2, e - ^ "2011 official playing rules of the national football league".
the lineman in the middle is the center.
while the lower level teams have their own championship games during britbowl weekend, only premier division teams face each other in thebritbowl which is held in worcester 'ssixways stadium.
this form of tackling is particularly unwise, because of the great potential for brain or spinal injury.
a play ends when a defender touches the ball carrier (sometimes with two hands).
in this game, the children split into two teams and line up at opposite sides of the playing field.
if the penalty would move the ball more than half the distance towards the offender's end zone, the penalty becomes half the distance to the goal instead of its normal value.
nationally televised thursday-night college games have become a weekly fixture onespn, and most nights of the week feature at least one college game, though most games are still played on the traditional saturday.
mark lawrence. http://football.calsci.com/therules4.html.
he then hands or tosses it to a running back, throws it to a receiver or runs with it himself.
georgetown magazine.
(london)the guardian, 27 october 2007.
in 1977, the semi-pro football teams newton nite hawks and chicago lions completed a five-game tour in europe.[42]
all this has caused the various leagues, especially the nfl, to  implement a complicated series of penalties for various types of contact.
http://news.google.com/newspapers?id=tl0qaaaaibaj&sjid=fwceaaaaibaj&pg=6819,3673442&dq=chicago-lions+europe+football+newton&hl=en .
usually there are many more players off the field (an nfl team has a limit of 53 players on their roster, 46 of which can be dressed for a game).
they try to occupy the offensive  linemen in order to free up the linebackers, disrupt the backfield (behind the  offensive line) of the offense, andtackle the running back if he has the ball  before he can gain yardage or the quarterback before he can throw or pass the  ball.
- the offensive team misses a field goal attempt.
when the offense succeeds in gaining at least 10 yards, it gets afirst down, meaning the team starts a new set of four downs to gain yet another 10 yards or to score.
these roles have varied over the history of american football.
- ^ a b hemmelgran, melinda.
most recently, virtually any contact with the helmet of a defensive player on the quarterback, or any contact to the quarterback's head, is now a foul.
bibliography - "digest of rules".
http://news.google.com/newspapers?nid=861&dat=19850620&id=4xaoaaaaibaj&sjid=r4udaaaaibaj&pg=6733,4809175 .
- mexico — the onefa is a college league with 26 teams in 3 conferences.
- by throwing the ball to a teammate, known as a pass or as passing the football.
instead, teams are invited to  compete in a number of post-seasonbowl games.
[dead link] - ^ "2005 rules and interpretations" (pdf).
known in the united states simply as football, it may also be referred to informally asgridiron football.[1][2] the ball can be advanced byrunning with it or throwing it to a teammate.
houghton mifflin company, 2004.
in 1977, the semi-pro football teams newton nite hawks and chicago lions  completed a five-game tour in europe.[42]
they specialize in  catching passes, though they also block for running plays or downfield after  another receiver makes a catch.
before each down, each team chooses a play, or coordinated movements and actions, that the players should follow on a down.
most  recently, virtually any contact with the helmet of a defensive player on the  quarterback, or any contact to the quarterback's head, is now a foul.
the team that scored then kicks the ball to the other team in a special play called akickoff.
despite this, there are a few professional leagues that have played in the  late winter, spring, or summer, mainly to avoid competition with the  established leagues.
the sport has grown significantly since 2004 and  with some top division i teams participating in thecefl.
- polski - português - română - русский - scots - shqip - sicilianu - simple english - slovenčina - slovenščina - српски / srpski - srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски - suomi - svenska - tagalog - தமிழ் - ไทย - тоҷикӣ - türkçe - українська - اردو - tiếng việt - 文言 - ייִדיש - 粵語 - 中文 -
bolstered by fiercerivalries, college football still holds widespread appeal in the us.[5][8][9] the origin of professional football can be traced back to 1892, with william "pudge" heffelfinger's $500 contract to play in a game for the allegheny athletic association against the pittsburgh athletic club.
a safety, worth 2 points, is scored by the opposing team when the team in possession at the end of a down is responsible for the ball becoming dead behind its own goal line.
[ 17]), or run or pass it into the end zone in the manner of a touchdown for 2 points (atwo-point conversion).
(punts and turnovers in the end zone can also result in atouchback).
see also american football portal - american football on thanksgiving - comparison of american and canadian football - comparison of american football and rugby league - fantasy football (american) - glossary of american football - lists of american football players - list of american football stadiums by capacity - list of american football teams in belgium - list of american football teams in germany - list of american football teams in the netherlands - list of defunct sports leagues - pro football hall of fame - sports nutrition - sprint football - steroid use in american football - strat-o-matic football - street football (american) references notes - ^ a b o'brien, kerry (1999-08-04).
exportation by the established u.s. leagues and organizations
these are referred to as play-action passes and draws,  respectively.
however,  they can spell disaster if the opposing team realizes the deception and acts  accordingly.
this, along with the demanding physicality of football (see below), is why teams typically play at most one game per week.
- text is available under the creative commons attribution-sharealike license ; additional terms may apply.
a field goal is usually attempted on fourth down instead of a punt when the ball is close enough to the opponent's goalposts, or, when there is little or no time left to otherwise score.
in certain areas, high school football teams also  hold spring practices.
althoughthanksgiving was the traditional end of the season for most college and early professional teams, playoffs and extended seasons have pushed seasons further into the winter season.
at the back of each end zone are two goalposts (also called uprights) connected by a crossbar 10 feet (3.05 m) from the ground.
there are many trick or gadget plays, such as when a team lines up as if it intends to punt and then tries to run or pass for a first down.
on october 2, 2005, thearizona cardinals and san francisco 49ers played the first regular season nfl game outside of the united states, in mexico city'sestadio azteca,[45] from 2007, the nfl has played or has plans to play at least one regular season game outside of the united states during each season.
the first professional "league" was theohio league, formed in 1903, and the first professional football championship game was between thebuffalo prospects and thecanton bulldogs in 1919.
it is very rare for football teams at any level to play more than one game in a week.
http://ap.google.com/article/aleqm5ghswbxq1wnh-jmel-jv4w8m0vd1wd8vqbfsg0.
the defense also plans plays in response to expectations of what the offense will do.
it is increasingly rare, for example, for nfl quarterbacks or running backs (who take the most direct hits) to make it through an entire season without missing some time to injury.[citation needed ] additionally, 28 football players died from direct football injuries in the years 2000–05 and an additional 68 died indirectly from dehydration or other examples of "non-physical" dangers, according to the national center for catastrophic sport injury research.[33]
flag football and touch football are less violent variants of the game popular among recreational players.
among them, offensive and defensive  linemen were the most likely to report use (16.3% and 14.8%, respectively).[38] organization in the united states main article: american football  in the united states in the united states, the major forms are high school football, college  football and professional football.
the nfl playoffs run further  through january, and thesuper bowl is often played in the first week of  february.
unlike the nfl, the bafacl season is played through the  summer (april to september), with thebritish university season spanning the  autumn and winter.
despite these and other rules regarding unnecessary  roughness, most other forms of tackling are legal.
the history of american football can be traced to early versions of rugby football and association football.
- ireland — the irish american football league consists of 14 teams.
while the lower  level teams have their own championship games during britbowl weekend, only  premier division teams face each other in thebritbowl which is held in worcester 'ssixways stadium.
- "history and the basics".
nationally televised thursday-night college games have become a weekly  fixture onespn, and most nights of the week feature at least one college game,  though most games are still played on the traditional saturday.
the defensive team gets the ball at the spot where the previous play began (or, in the nfl, at the spot of the kick).
in australia and new zealand the game is also known asgridiron football, or more commonly as gridiron,[1][39] although in the united states the termgridiron refers only to the playing field itself.[40]
the ifaf also oversees the american football world cup, which is held every four years.
in 1985, bethany college head coach and future college football hall of fame  memberted kessinger brought the first american football team to play in sweden .
the bethany "terrible swedes" defeated the swedish all-star team 72–7 instockholm olympic stadium.[44] the nfl has attempted to introduce the game to other nations and operated a developmental league,nfl europa (also known as the world league of american football and nfl europe) with teams in various european cities, but this league was closed down following the 2007 season.
players can then advance the ball in two ways: - by running with the ball, also known as rushing.
they also cannot grab the face mask of the runner's helmet or lead into a tackle with their own helmet ("spearing").
in a regular-season nfl game, if neither team scores in overtime, the game is a tie.
"football not truly global until it’s in olympics".
the term gridiron has also been used in the uk  to describe the game.[41]
at most levels of competition, college football teams hold several weeks of  practices in the spring.
lacrosse • polo • rackets •
some plays are very safe; they are likely to get only a few yards.
- powerchair football gridiron codes - american football (eight-man, flag, nine-man, six-man, sprint, touch) - canadian football - indoor football (arena) hybrid codes - austus - circle rules football - international rules football - kronum - samoa rules - universal football - volata medieval football codes - ba game - caid - calcio fiorentino - camping - cnapan - cornish hurling - cuju - harpastum - kemari - ki-o-rahi - la soule - lelo burti - marn grook - mob football - royal shrovetide - uppies and downies - yubi lakpi rugby codes - beach - rugby league (masters, mini, mod, nines, sevens, tag, touch, wheelchair) - rugby union (american flag, mini, sevens, snow, tag, touch, tens) handball sports - czech - goalball - handball (beach) - field - frisian handball - torball safe haven sports - baseball (extreme) - brännboll - british baseball - cricket (indoor, limited overs, odi, test, twenty20) - danish longball - kickball - lapta - oină - over-the-line - pesäpallo - rounders - softball - stoolball - town ball - vigoro stick and ball sports - cammag - composite rules shinty-hurling - hurling (camogie) - lacrosse (box/indoor, field, intercrosse, women's) - polocrosse - shinty hockey sports - ball hockey - bandy (rink) - broomball (moscow) - field hockey (indoor) - floor hockey - floorball - ice hockey (power) - inline hockey - ringette - roller hockey - rossall hockey - skater hockey - sledge hockey - street hockey - underwater hockey - underwater ice hockey - unicycle hockey polo sports - canoe polo - cowboy polo - cycle polo - elephant polo - horseball - pato - polo - segway polo - yak polo ball over a net sports - biribol - bossaball - fistball - football tennis - footvolley - jianzi - footbag net - peteca - sepak takraw - throwball - volleyball (beach, paralympic) - ball badminton other sports - airsoft - basque pelota (frontenis, jai alai, xare) - buzkashi - curling - cycle ball - dodgeball - gateball - kabaddi - kho kho - lagori - paintball - pétanque - rollball - roller derby - tchoukball - ulama - ultimate - underwater rugby - water polo (inner tube) - wheelchair rugby - underwater football - whirlyball hybrid sports and the sports that form them hybrid sport combination of austus american football and australian rules football biathlon cross-country skiing and target shooting composite rules shinty-hurling shinty andhurling chess boxing boxing and chess international rules football australian rules football and gaelic football samoa rules australian rules football and rugby union
new zealand — american football wellington comprises five  teams located in thewellington area.
the ifaf also oversees the american football world cup, which is held every  four years.
- new zealand — american football wellington comprises five teams located in thewellington area.
unlikerainouts in baseball, play is only generally postponed or canceled for conditions that would pose a hazard to the safety of the fans and personnel involved, such asblizzards, hurricanes and severe thunderstorms.
this is known as an incomplete pass.
however, in a post-season nfl game during the playoffs, if the first team with possession scores only a field goal, the other team is allowed the opportunity to match or better this score.
in much of the world, the term football is  unambiguous and refers to association football (known commonly as 'soccer' in  theunited states).
most football players have highly specialized roles.
mexico — the onefa is a college league with 26 teams in 3  conferences.
- contact us - privacy policy - about wikipedia - disclaimers - mobile view
the senior (adult)  league has three levels: the premiership, comprising six teams; division 1,  comprising 18 teams split across three regional conferences; and division 2,  comprising 23 teams split across four regional conferences.
american football the u.s. naval academy midshipmen (left) face off against the colorado state rams. nickname(s)
they specialize in catching passes, though they also block for running plays or downfield after another receiver makes a catch.
however, there are relatively safe passing plays and risky running plays.
physicality main articles: health issues in american football and american football protective equipment a halfback leads fellow backs through an agility drill at the air force academy football is a collision sport.
retrieved 2007-10-31.
special teams the units of players who handle kicking plays are known as special teams .
these players return punts or kickoffs and try to get in good field position.
note that, though even more rare, the team initially on offense during a down can score a safety if a player of the original defense gains possession of the ball in front of his own goal line and then carries the ball or fumbles it into his own end zone where it becomes dead.
one offensive player, thecenter, then passes (or "snaps") the ball backwards between his legs to a teammate behind him, usually thequarterback.
the highest level major professional league in the united states is the  32-teamnational football league (nfl).
the end zone includes the goal line but not the end line.[11] while the playing field is effectively flat, it is common for a field to be built with a slight crown—with the middle of the field higher than the sides—to allow water to drain from the field.
pesapallo • roller hockey •
officials blow a whistle to notify players that the down is over.
- ^ "nfl makes some rule changes".
blockers and defenders  trying to evade them also have wide leeway in trying to force their opponents  out of the way.
nutrition and dehydration football players typically begin their season while the weather is still  extremely warm and with the dangerous combination of warm weather and high  humidity, dehydration is a great risk for the players.[36]
an offensive ball carrier fumbles the ball forward into the opposing end zone, and then the ball goes out of bounds.
http://www.sportsknowhow.com/football/field-dimensions/nfl-football-field-dimensions.html .
- brazil — the brazilian american football league has 14 teams partitioned into north and south conferences.
archived fromthe original on 2005-11-27.
- they may choose to defer the first choice to the other team and have first choice to start the second half.[13] whatever the first team chooses, the second team has the option on the other choice (for example, if the first team elects to receive at the start of the game, the second team can decide which goal to defend).
regularly  compete in either theeuropean football league or the efaf cup.
finland — the vaahteraliiga or the maple league has eight teams.
a rival league to the nfl, the american football league (afl), began play in 1960; the pressure it put on the senior league led to amerger between the two leagues and the creation of the super bowl, which has become the most watched television event in the united states on an annual basis.[10] high school football dates to the 1880s and enjoys regional popularity.
tacklers cannot kick or punch the runner.
- ^ kelso, paul (2007-10-27).
australian football •
studies suggest 10% of arizona high school football players will suffer a concussion during this coming season pr newswire press release from the brain injury association of arizona, august 23, 2005.
many games known as "football" were being played at colleges and universities in the united states in the first half of the 19th century.[5][6] rutgers university and its neighbor, princeton university, played the first game of intercollegiate football on 6 november 1869 on a plot of ground where the present-day rutgers gymnasium now stands in new brunswick, n.j. rutgers won that first game, 6-4.[7]
thencaa will also play games outside of the u.s. in 2012, the united states naval academy will play the university of notre dame indublin, ireland.
retrieved 2010-02-07.
unlikerainouts in baseball, play is only generally postponed or  canceled for conditions that would pose a hazard to the safety of the fans and  personnel involved, such asblizzards, hurricanes and severe thunderstorms.
in a survey of more than 3,000 retired players, 9% reported having usedanabolic steroids while playing.
major american leagues have also held some regular season games outside of the united states.
players this diagram shows typical offensive and defensive formations.
games were played in versailles, france; lille, france; landstuhl, germany; gratz austria; and vienna, austria.[43]
after the post-season playoffs, the x-league champion is determined in the japan x bowl.
at most levels of competition, college football teams hold several weeks of practices in the spring.
the nfl draft is usually held in april, in which eligible college football  players are selected by nfl teams, the order of selection determined by the  teams' final regular season records.
the ball is returned to the most recent line of scrimmage for the next down.
- the ball or the player with the ball goes out of bounds.
the professional and collegiate  champions then face each other in therice bowl to determine the national  champion.
more rigorous research is being conducted by dr. casson, neurologist, for the nfl.
- ^ a b c d e "beginner's guide to football".
http://www.nfl.com/history.
conversely, some offensive penalties result in loss of a down (loss of the right to repeat the down).[20] if a penalty gives the offensive team enough yardage to gain a first down, they get a first down, as usual.
see 2006 ncaa football rules and interpretations, sec. 1, art.
they can play either like wide receivers (catch passes) or like offensive linemen (protect the qb or create spaces for runners).
the positional roles are customary.
rule 5, section 1, article 2, b - ^
united kingdom — 70 amateur teams play in the bafa  community leagues (bafacl) across a number of age ranges.
these teams mostly play other similarly  sized schools, through the ncaa's divisional system, which divides the schools  into four divisions:division i bowl subdivision, division i championship  subdivision, division ii, and division iii.
retrieved 2011-10-14.
- ^ "camp and his followers: american football 1876–1889".
they are the first line of defense.
the nfl plays 16 games over the course of four months, with a single-elimination tournament of three to four rounds.
during the late 1970s, the penalty in high school football for spearing included ejection from the game.[32] despite protective equipment and rule changes to emphasize safety, injuries remain very common in football.
for example, if the team needs only one yard, it may use three  tight ends, two running backs and no wide receivers.
the offense can throw the ball forward only once during a down and only from behind the line of scrimmage.
start of halves the game begins with a coin toss to determine which team will kick off to begin the game and which goal each team will defend.[12]
http://www.nfl.com/rulebook/beginnersguidetofootball.
main article:american football positions see also: formation (american football)
they cover the receivers and try to stop  pass completions.
football's increasing popularity is usually traced to the1958 nfl championship game, a contest that has been dubbed the "greatest game ever played".
- hungary — 18 registered teams participate in the mafl's two-division league structure.
the following are customary defensive positions used in many coverages in modern american football.
the referee conducts the coin toss with the captains (or sometimes coaches) of the opposing teams.
the options are presented again to start the second half; the choices for the first half do not automatically determine the start of the second half.
sarasota herald-tribune.
"[35] extra and optional equipment such as neck rolls, spider pads, rib  protectors (referred to as "flak jackets"), andelbow pads help  against injury as well, though they do not tend to be used by the majority of  players due to their lack of requirement.
the senior (adult) league has three levels: the premiership, comprising six teams; division 1, comprising 18 teams split across three regional conferences; and division 2, comprising 23 teams split across four regional conferences.
the team that wins the coin toss has three options:[12] - they may choose whether to kick or receive the opening kickoff.
the league changed its name to thenational football league (nfl) two years later, and eventually became themajor league of american football.
at all levels, a down (play) that begins before time expires is allowed to continue until its completion, even after the clock reaches zero.
although professional football has been played in every month of the year, football is traditionally an autumn sport.
- india — the elite football league of india (efli) is a proposed professional league inindia.[47] when play begins in late 2012, there will be eight teams, representing various cities across india with populations of one million or more.
some plays are very safe; they  are likely to get only a few yards.
a change of possession in this manner is commonly called a turnover on downs.
a line of scrimmage on the 48-yard line.
sometimes an offensive lineman takes the tight end position and is referred to as atackle eligible.[21] at least seven players must line up on the line of scrimmage on every offensive play.
the country is actually divided into  state-level leagues instead of one national-level league by itself:act gridiron  (australian capital territory), gridiron nsw (new south wales), gridiron  queensland (queensland), south australian gridiron association (south australia ),gridiron victoria (victoria), and gridiron west (western australia).
the professionalcanadian football  league and collegiate canadian interuniversity sport play under the slightly  differentcanadian rules.
despite this, there are a few professional leagues that have played in the late winter, spring, or summer, mainly to avoid competition with the established leagues.
- germany — the german football league has 12 teams partitioned into north and south conferences.
the last line of defense is known as the secondary, comprising at least  three players who line up asdefensive backs, who are either cornerbacks or safeties.
this page was last modified on 24 february 2012 at 19:08.
after the post-season  playoffs, the x-league champion is determined in the japan x bowl.
if a team has two running backs in the game, usually one will be ahalfback (hb) (or tailback (tb)), who is more likely to run with the ball, and the other will usually be a fullback (fb), who is more likely to block.
if the unsuccessful kick was attempted from within 20 yards of the end zone, the other team gets the ball at its own 20 yard line (that is, 20 yards from the end zone).
generally speaking, rushing plays are less risky than passing plays.
the country is actually divided into state-level leagues instead of one national-level league by itself:act gridiron (australian capital territory), gridiron nsw (new south wales), gridiron queensland (queensland), south australian gridiron association (south australia ),gridiron victoria (victoria), and gridiron west (western australia).
- ^ nastrom, stephaan (june 20, 1985).
if the opposing team catches the ball, that player tries to run to the throwing teams touchdown without being tagged/tackled.
initially a sport of midwestern industrial towns in the united states, professional football eventually became a national phenomenon.
a touchback also occurs when the kick goes out-of-bounds in the end zone.
the finalists from the playoffs determine the champion during thebelgian bowl.
because of the arrangement of the lines, the field is occasionally referred to as agridiron in a reference to thecooking grill with a similar pattern of lines.
to compensate for this, players must wear special protective equipment,  such as a padded plastichelmet, shoulder pads, hip pads and knee pads.
in this game, the children split into two teams and line up at opposite  sides of the playing field.
gridiron first played november 6, 1869, rutgers vs. princeton characteristics contact full contact team members 11 at a time categorization outdoor equipment football olympic no was demonstrated in the 1932 summer olympics not recognized as an olympic sport american football is a sport played between two teams of eleven with the objective of scoring points by advancing theball into the opposing team's end zone.
it has 9 teams  for the 2010 season.
the forward pass is a key factor distinguishing american and canadian football from other football sports.
it has 9 teams for the 2010 season.
yard lines cross the field every 5 yards (4.6 m), and are numbered every 10 yards from each goal line to the 50-yard line, or midfield (similar to a typicalrugby league field).
indoor football is played primarily in spring for this same reason; leagues that are based in europe and asia also generally play an earlier season.
as a result, players have very specialized roles and are divided into three separate units: theoffense, the defense and the special teams.
if the offense fails to gain a first down (10 yards) after four downs, the other team gets possession of the ball at the point where the fourth down ended, beginning with their first down to advance the ball in the opposite direction.
the complete book of rugby (seven oaks ltd, 1997isbn 1-86200-013-1) p77 - ^ "rutgers—the birthplace of intercollegiate football".
an unintended consequence of all the  safety equipment has resulted in increasing levels of violence in the game.
the elfi will be india's firstprofessional american football league, and its launch is backed by thegovernment of india and the sports authority of india.[48] all of the first season's games will be held in pune at the shree shiv chhatrapati sports complex.
the positions, movements and responsibilities of all defensive players are assigned by the team by selection of certain coverages, or patterns of placement and assignment of responsibilities.
outside the united states outside the united states, the sport is referred to as "american  football" (or a translation thereof) to differentiate it from otherfootball  codes such asassociation football (soccer), rugby league, rugby union,  australian rules football and gaelic football.
however, the ball can be handed-off to another player or thrown, pitched, or tossed sideways or backwards (alateral pass) at any time.
the defensive team takes over the ball at the spot where the 4th-down play ends.
the term gridiron has also been used in the uk to describe the game.[41]
most of college football in the united states is governed by the national  collegiate athletic association (ncaa), and most colleges and universities  around the country have football teams.
- spain — the lnfa was founded in 1995, and currently consists of 15 clubs.
better  helmets have allowed players to use their helmets as weapons.
the defensive line consists of three to six players who line up  immediately across from the offensive line.
- united kingdom — 70 amateur teams play in the bafa community leagues (bafacl) across a number of age ranges.
the following are customary  defensive positions used in many coverages in modern american football.
for example, a "blitz" (using linebackers or  defensive backs to charge the quarterback) is often attempted when the team on  defense expects a pass.
all this has caused the various leagues, especially the nfl, to implement a complicated series of penalties for various types of contact.
the injuries that do result tend to be severe and  often season or career-ending and sometimes fatal.
the  positions, movements and responsibilities of all defensive players are assigned  by the team by selection of certain coverages, or patterns of placement and  assignment of responsibilities.
rule 5, section 1, article 2, c - ^ "2011 official playing rules of the national football league".
at the start of the second half, the options to kick, receive, or choose a goal to defend are presented to the captains again.
this arrangement  arose when football was in its early stages, and many of the early professional  teams shared playing fields (and sometimes players) with baseball teams; the  end of baseball season was accordingly set up to also serve as the start of  football season.
"gridiron comes to australia".
retrieved january 21, 2011.
this fairly rare occurrence is called asafety .
a blitz makes downfield passing more difficult but exposes the defense to big gains if the offensive line stems the rush.
the quarterback is the leader of the offense and calls the plays that are signaled to him from the sidelines.
defensive linemen were 42% more likely to die from  heart disease than men in the general population.
http://nbcsports.msnbc.com/id/35563184/ns/sports-nfl/.
also included on special teams are the returners.
updated january 18, 2006.
offense the offensive line (ol) consists of five players whose job is to  protect the passer and clear the way for runners by blocking members of the  defense.
a kicker attempts an extra point.
major american leagues have also held some regular season games outside of  the united states.
bowl games, a college football tradition, attracted a national audience for collegiate teams.
the danger of football, and the equipment required to reduce it, make  regulation football impractical for casual play.
retrieved 2008-01-09.
in previous years with less padding, tackling more closely resembled tackles inrugby football.
games were played in versailles, france; lille, france;  landstuhl, germany; gratz austria; and vienna, austria.[43]
if a team has two running  backs in the game, usually one will be ahalfback (hb) (or tailback (tb)), who is more likely to run with the ball, and the other will usually be a fullback (fb), who is more likely to block.
they also cannot grab the face mask  of the runner's helmet or lead into a tackle with their own helmet  ("spearing").
unlike the three smaller ncaa  football divisions, the division i bowl subdivision does not have an organized  tournament to determine its national champion.
contents - 1 history - 2 rules - 2.1 field and players - 2.2 start of halves - 2.3 game duration - 2.4 advancing the ball - 2.5 change of possession - 2.6 scoring - 2.7 kickoffs and free kicks - 2.8 penalties - 2.9 variations - 3 players - 3.1 offense - 3.2 defense - 3.3 special teams - 3.4 uniform numbering - 4 basic strategy - 5 physicality - 5.1 nutrition and dehydration - 5.2 brain injury - 5.3 heart disease - 6 organization in the united states - 7 outside the united states - 7.1 exportation by the established u.s. leagues and organizations - 7.2 leagues by country - 7.3
nutrition and dehydration football players typically begin their season while the weather is still extremely warm and with the dangerous combination of warm weather and high humidity, dehydration is a great risk for the players.[36]
this form of  tackling is particularly unwise, because of the great potential for brain or spinal injury.
they cover the receivers and try to stop pass completions.
this rare occurrence leads to atouchback, with the ball going over to the opposing team at their 20 yard line (note that touchbacks during non-offensive special teams plays, such as punts and kickoffs, are quite common).
http://www.abc.net.au/7.30/stories/s41614.htm.
unlike rugby, a player does not have to touch the ball to the ground to score; a touchdown is scored any time a player has possession of the ball while any part of the ball is beyond the vertical plane created by the leading edge of the opponent's goal line stripe (the stripe itself is a part of the end zone).
germany — the german football league has 12 teams  partitioned into north and south conferences.
because of the amount of physical wear the game can inflict on the human body, american football seasons are typically far shorter than the comparable seasons of other popular american sports.
wide receivers (wr) line up near the sidelines.
regularly compete in either theeuropean football league or the efaf cup.
the quarterback (qb) receives the snap from the center on most  plays.
the clock is also stopped after certain plays, therefore, a game can last considerably longer (often more than three hours in real time), and if a game is broadcast on television, tv timeouts are taken at certain intervals of the game to broadcast commercials outside of game action.
rule 5, section 1, article 2, a - ^ "2011 official playing rules of the national football league".
as such, defensive players must use some form of physical contact to bring the ball-carrier to the ground, within certain rules and guidelines.
punts are nearly always made on fourth down, when the offensive team does not want to risk giving up the ball to the other team at its current spot on the field (through a failed attempt to make a first down) and feels it is too far from the other team's goal post to attempt a field goal.
main article:penalty (american football) fouls (a type of rule violation) are punished with penalties against the offending team.
this arrangement arose when football was in its early stages, and many of the early professional teams shared playing fields (and sometimes players) with baseball teams; the end of baseball season was accordingly set up to also serve as the start of football season.
national collegiate athletic association. 2005.
a scoring area called anend zone extends 10 yards (9.1 m) beyond each goal line to each end line.
retrieved 2010-02-27.
each team has aplaybook of dozens to hundreds of plays.
this rule only affects playoff games in overtime in which the first team with possession scores a field goal: if the first team with possession scores a touchdown, the sudden death rules take effect.
if a foul occurs during a down (after the play has begun), the down is allowed to continue and an official throws a yellowpenalty flag near the spot of the foul.
in 1981, u.s. presidentronald reagan, who played football in high school, commented on the contact of the sport: "football is the last thing left in civilization where men can literally fling themselves bodily at one another in combat and not be at war.
rule 5, section 1, article 2, f - ^ florio, mike (march 24, 2010).
outside the center are the  guards, and outside them are the tackles.
this finding is considered significant as such  injuries may potentially affect high school and college players also.[37] heart disease while retired nfl players have a lower overall rate of death compared to  men in the general u.s. population, players at certain positions have a higher  incidence ofheart disease.
gymnastics • handball • judo • modern pentathlon •
three important special-teams players are the punter, who handles punts, theplacekicker or kicker, who kicks off and attempts field goals and extra points, and thelong snapper, who snaps the ball for extra points, field goals, and punts.
to  deceive the other team, some passing plays are designed to resemble running  plays and vice versa.
here the  offense is in the normal i-formation while the defense is in a 4–3 normal.
a standard football game consists of four 15-minute quarters (12-minute quarters in high-school football and often shorter at lower levels),[15] with a half-time intermission after the second quarter.[16]
most penalties result in moving the football towards the offending team's end zone.
http://www.nfl.com/rulebook/cointoss.
spain — the lnfa was founded in 1995, and currently  consists of 15 clubs.
the ifaf and the american football world cup - 8 see also - 9 references - 9.1 notes - 9.2 bibliography - 10
quarterbacks are regularly hit by defenders coming on full  speed from outside the quarterback's field of vision.
ideally, each play is a scripted, strategically sound team-coordinated endeavor.
- fewer players - nine-man football - eight-man football - six-man football - smaller field - the arena football league is a league that plays eight-man football, but also plays indoors and on a much smaller playing surface with rule changes to encourage a much more offensive game.
for lower skill levels, these are widened to 23 feet 4 inches (7.11 m).
if no one catches the ball or if the  player is tagged/tackled, then that team has to throw the ball to the opposing  team.
walter camp american football resulted from several major divergences from rugby football, most notably the rule changes instituted by walter camp, considered the "father of american football."
quarterbacks, punters and placekickers (by rule)[22] 20–49: running backs and defensive backs (by rule)[23] 50–59: centers and linebackers (by custom)[24] 60–79: offensive guards and tackles (mandatory),[25] defensive  guards and tackles (by custom) 10–19, 80–89: wide receivers (by rule)[26] 80–89 (by rule),[27] 40-49 (optional): tight ends 90–99: defensive ends and linebackers (by custom) players who switch positions in their career can keep their number if they  played their prior position for at least a year and move from a position that  is eligible to receive passes to another eligible position, or if he is moving  from one ineligible position to another ineligible position.[28][29] players wearing numbers between 50 and 79 inclusive are ineligible to  receive forward passes, unless they "report as eligible" to the  official.
sidelines and end lines are out of bounds.
http://www.nfl.com/rulebook/safety.
defensive linemen were 42% more likely to die from heart disease than men in the general population.
in 1920, the american professional football association was formed.
the team that takes possession of the ball (the offense) has four attempts, calleddowns, in which to advance the ball at least 10 yards toward their opponent's (thedefense's) end zone.
this is called an interception, and the player who makes the interception can run with the ball until he is tackled, forced out of bounds, or scores.
the nfl plays 16 games over the course of  four months, with a single-elimination tournament of three to four rounds.
all plays start with the ball on or between the hash marks.
college overtime rules are more complicated.
there are no numbering restrictions on  defensive players in the ncaa, other than that a team may not have two players  on the field at the same time with the samejersey number.[31] basic strategy main article: american football strategy because the game stops after every down, giving teams a chance to call a  new play, strategy plays a major role in football.
it is extremely important for  players to drink enough fluids because dehydration can seriously reduce  athletic performance and increase the risk of heat illnesses.
because of the amount of physical wear the game can inflict on the human  body, american football seasons are typically far shorter than the comparable  seasons of other popular american sports.
further reading - 11 external links history main article: history of american football an american football team at the turn of the 20th century.
the first game was played indayton, ohio on october 3, 1920 with the hosttriangles defeating the columbus panhandles 14–0.
if no one catches the ball or if the player is tagged/tackled, then that team has to throw the ball to the opposing team.
although professional football has been played in every month of the year,  football is traditionally an autumn sport.
it is rare for all team members to participate in a given game, as some roles have little utility beyond that of an injury substitute.
team  usa, which had not participated in the previous world cups, won the title in  2007 and 2011.
- ^ "pro grid coaches still convinced europe fertile".
the increased incidence of heart disease may be attributed to highbmi measurements: retired players—notably offensive and defensive linemen—with a playing-time bmi of 30 or more had double the risk of dying from heart disease as compared to other players.
these practices typically end with an intramural scrimmage open to the public.
bowling •budo • gliding • glima • korfball •
- belgium — the belgian football league fields 16 teams.
the only penalty that results in points is if a team on offense commits certain fouls, such as holding, in its own end zone, which results in asafety.
http://www.nfl.com/rulebook/digestofrules.
the offense is on the left.
- the offense scores a touchdown or field goal.
this is commonly known as a blindside.
the victoria advocate .
the team which did not choose first to start the first half (or which deferred its privilege to choose first) now gets first choice of options.[12][14] game duration
water motorsports part of the 2016 program golf • rugby sevens demonstration sports american football •
the ball is placed at the other team's 3 yard line (the 2 yard line in the nfl).
in 1981, u.s.  presidentronald reagan, who played football in high school, commented on the  contact of the sport: "football is the last thing left in civilization  where men can literally fling themselves bodily at one another in combat and  not be at war.
this finding is considered significant as such injuries may potentially affect high school and college players also.[37] heart disease while retired nfl players have a lower overall rate of death compared to men in the general u.s. population, players at certain positions have a higher incidence ofheart disease.
such symptoms are believed related to the effects of concussions.
in a regular season nfl overtime game, the first team that scores wins, even if the other team does not get a possession; this is referred to assudden death.
on october 2, 2005, thearizona cardinals and san francisco  49ers played the first regular season nfl game outside of the united states, in  mexico city'sestadio azteca,[45] from 2007, the nfl has played or has plans to  play at least one regular season game outside of the united states during each  season.
most now wear 60–79 lineman numbers.
outside the united states outside the united states, the sport is referred to as "american football" (or a translation thereof) to differentiate it from otherfootball codes such asassociation football (soccer), rugby league, rugby union, australian rules football and gaelic football.
at the college and nfl  levels, most play only offense or only defense.
if an nfl game is tied after four quarters, the teams play an additional period lasting up to 15 minutes.
most of college football in the united states is governed by the national collegiate athletic association (ncaa), and most colleges and universities around the country have football teams.
- wide receivers (wr) line up near the sidelines.
as such, the sport is played in a wide range of weather conditions,  from the heat and humidity of late summer, to the cold winds and snow in  mid-winter.
for example, if the team needs only one yard, it may use three tight ends, two running backs and no wide receivers.
retrieved 2008-04-03.
- an offensive player drops the ball (a fumble) and a defensive player picks it up.
the organization is headquartered inla courneuve, france.
a kickoff that goes out-of-bounds anywhere other than the end zone before being touched by the receiving team is a foul, and the ball will be placed within the hash marks of the yard line where it went out of bounds, or 30 yards from the kickoff spot, depending on which is more advantageous to the receiving team.[18]
there are many trick or gadget plays, such as when a team lines  up as if it intends to punt and then tries to run or pass for a first down.
- ^ 2007 official rules of the nfl.
unlike the nfl, the bafacl season is played through the summer (april to september), with thebritish university season spanning the autumn and winter.
- the defensive line consists of three to six players who line up immediately across from the offensive line.
many hours of preparation and strategizing, including film review by both players and coaches, go into the days between football games.
for high skill levels, the posts are 18 feet 6 inches (5.64 m) apart.
where he is stopped is the point where the offense will begin itsdrive, or series of offensive plays.
lost fumbles and interceptions are together known asturnovers.
"nutrient needs of young athletes."
there are also over 200 universities fielding teams, with the national collegiate championship determined by thekoshien bowl.
during  the late 1970s, the penalty in high school football for spearing included  ejection from the game.[32] despite protective equipment and rule changes to emphasize safety, injuries  remain very common in football.
they try to occupy the offensive linemen in order to free up the linebackers, disrupt the backfield (behind the offensive line) of the offense, andtackle the running back if he has the ball before he can gain yardage or the quarterback before he can throw or pass the ball.
a long term goal of the ifaf is for american football to be accepted by the international olympic committee as an olympic sport.[49] the only time that the sport was played wasat the 1932 summer olympics in los angeles, but as a demonstration sport.
however, there is some research, reported in 2009, which, using phone interviews based on thenational health interview survey, showed increased incidence of diagnosis ofmemory loss and dementia among retired professional football players; chronic traumatic encephalopathy diagnoses are increasingly common among deceased football players.
change of possession
examples include the now defunctxfl, the united states  football league, and the proposed all american football league.
- poland — games are governed by the polish american football league.
in the united states and canada, the term "football" may refer to either american football or to the similar sport ofcanadian football, the meaning usually being clear from the context.
uniform numbering quarterback shaun carney has uniform number  5.
belgium — the belgian football league fields 16 teams.
the ifaf and the american football world cup main article: international federation of american football the international federation of american football (ifaf) is the de facto governing body for american football, with 45 member associations from north and south america, europe, asia and oceania.
india — the elite football league of india (efli) is a  proposed professional league inindia.[47] when play begins in late 2012, there  will be eight teams, representing various cities across india with populations  of one million or more.
other plays have the potential for long gains but at a greater risk of a loss of yardage or a turnover.
- tight ends (te) line up next to the offensive line.
sometimes, downs themselves are referred to as "plays."
robert f. kanaby, nfhs publications.
because teams can change any or all of the players between plays, the number of players at certain positions may differ on a given play.
http://profootballtalk.nbcsports.com/2010/03/24/league-modifies-numbering-system/ .
such high-risk plays are a great thrill to the fans when they work.
- a forward pass flies beyond the dimensions of the field (out of bounds ) or touches the ground before it is caught.
some defensive penalties give the offense an automatic first down.[20]
as such, defensive players must use some form of physical contact to  bring the ball-carrier to the ground, within certain rules and guidelines.
in contrast to members of the offense, the rules of professional football ( nfl rulebook) and american college football (ncaa rulebook) do not specify  starting position, movement, or coverage zones for members of the defensive  team, except that they must be in the defensive zone at the start of play.
the team can attempt to kick it through the goalposts (over the crossbar and between the uprights) in the manner of a field goal for 1 point (anextra point or point-after touchdown (pat)
however, if the ball becomes dead behind the goal line of the team in possession and its opponent is responsible for the ball being there (for instance, if the defense intercepts a forward pass in its own end zone and the ball becomes dead before the ball is advanced out of the end zone) it is a touchback: no points are scored and the team last in possession keeps possession with a first down at its own 20 yard line.
the organization is  headquartered inla courneuve, france.
despite these and other rules regarding unnecessary roughness, most other forms of tackling are legal.
the sport has grown significantly since 2004 and with some top division i teams participating in thecefl.
http://web.archive.org/web/20070808163024/http://www.coldhardfootballfacts.com/documents/nfl_all_about_sb_1-07.pdf .
- behind the defensive line are the linebackers.
the defense also plans plays in response to expectations of what the  offense will do.
further reading - sports illustrated magazine dated december 4, 2005; "football america", a series of articles attesting to the pervasive popularity of american football in the united states at all levels.
- brief explanation of the sport by the bbc aimed at a non-american audience - american football at the open directory project - american youth football ifaf · world cup · women's world cup · junior world cup · olympics (demonstartion) asia afaf
- a defensive player catches a forward pass.
several semi-professional, women's semi-professional football, andindoor football leagues are also played across the country.
variations see also: list of gridiron football codes - limited contact - touch football.
the players are  usually required to follow a hydration schedule.
in general, high school teams play only against other teams within the samestate, but there are some exceptions like nearby schools located on opposite sides of a state line.
http://www.nfl.com/rulebook/kickoff.
however, teams may substitute for any or all of their players during the breaks between plays.
it is extremely important for players to drink enough fluids because dehydration can seriously reduce athletic performance and increase the risk of heat illnesses.
- ^ "nfl history 1869–1910".
wikipedia® is a registered trademark of thewikimedia foundation, inc., a non-profit organization.
- ^ a b "nfl football field dimensions" .
the professional and collegiate champions then face each other in therice bowl to determine the national champion.
brazil — the brazilian american football league has 14  teams partitioned into north and south conferences.
italy — the italian football league was founded in 2008,  taking over previous league (national football league italy).
the offense maintains possession of the ball unless one of the following things occurs: - the team fails to get a first down— i.e., in four downs they fail to move the ball past a line 10 yards ahead of where they got their last first down.
after safeties, the team that gave up the points must free kick the ball to the other team from its own 20 yard line.[19] penalties a penalty flag on the field during a game on november 16, 2008 between thesan francisco 49ers and st. louis rams.
"nfl players tackling heart disease".
they occasionally rush the quarterback.
as with interceptions, a player recovering a fumble can run with the ball until tackled, forced out of bounds, or scoring.
both games have their origins in varieties of football played in the united kingdom in the mid-19th century, in which a ball is kicked at agoal and/or run over a line.
mike florio (2010-02-24).