he does have a good personality,  but he just keeps everything in perspective.
all those factors combined i think and the possibility to play early  influenced his decision.”
it really shows the directions that our program is headed when guys get a chance to choose between great schools likeole miss and alabama.
click here for a list of all team newsletters.
“i called coach grant.”
“i came  right out and told him i wanted to be a part of the crimson tide basketball  team.”
i just decided to commit because i wanted to be no where else but at alabama.”
"a lot of things kids don’t want to hear.
"at alabama, he can achieve all that if he works  hard.
christian life center academy head coach carlos wilson comments about jason carter committing to the university of alabama: “we’re very proud and excited that jason has chosen alabama.
- terms of service copyright © scout.com.
he likes that, and he knows  that he needs that along with he really enjoyed playing with the guys.
subscribe to our newsletter to have our newest  articles emailed to you on a daily or weekly basis.
what on-and-off-the-court factors influenced your decision?
“i just committed about five minutes ago,” carter said.
alabama is where my heart is and that is where i wanted to be.
on friday evening, word came that bama would also  add a big man for the 2010-11 season.
we want high character  guys.
“i felt like i adapted to the environment.
jason carter, a  6-8, 230-pound forward, told ’bama magazine and bamamag.com that he would  sign withalabama.
christian life center academy head coach carlos wilson comments about jason  carter committing to the university of alabama: “we’re very proud and excited that jason has chosen alabama.
by a.p. steadham bamamag.com posted apr 24,  2010 | more alabama men’s basketball  coach anthony grant had added three guards in grant’s first full year to  recruit for the crimson tide.
“i can’t wait to be on the campus.”
daily format weekly digest add players to my hotlist get free email alerts with news about your favorite players.
i  liked the players.
how do you feel about finally making a commitment?
"well coach grant actually told him the truth – ‘it’s going to be tough, i’m going to be tough.
carter, a native of new orleans whose family was displaced by hurricane katrina, is living in humble, texas, and played for christian life center academy.
not only coach (antoine) pettway and coach grant, but i felt i connected with all the other coaches when i was in tuscaloosa.
what were your initial comments to coach grant?
not saying anybody else told him  differently, but a lot of time when people are recruiting you they tell you  everything’s going to be peaches and cream, we are going to be great,  we’re going to smile and we’re going to have a fun time.
apr 26, 2010 thoughts from carter after bama visit -by bamamag.com apr 19, 2010 magazine coverage get the 2012 recruiting yearbook and a full year of'bama magazine with an annual total access pass.
"at alabama, he can achieve all that if he works hard.
“i just committed about five minutes  ago,” carter said.
basketball > alabama > recruiting basketball > alabama > recruiting basketball > mississippi >
"he really felt like he fit in well.
and he (jason) was like, ‘coach, that is similar to you.’”
what was coach grant’s reaction?
i felt i could do well academically too.”
we want high character guys.
he said when coach grant told him that he kind of reminded him of myself, just telling the truth.
click name to add tomy hotlist.
we don’t think there could have been a better choice than alabama.
free email newsletter don't miss any news or features from bamamag.com.
we’re all excited on our end about jason going to alabama.”
i just decided to commit because i wanted to be no where else but at  alabama.”
socially at alabama it was a good  fit.
"well coach grant actually told him the truth – ‘it’s  going to be tough, i’m going to be tough.
[view my hotlist] add topics to my hotlist get free email alerts with news  about your favorite topics.
he knows there is a time and place for everything
we want our kids to act a certain way.
here are some of carter’s comments friday: why did you  commit today?
and he (jason) was like, ‘coach, that is similar to  you.’”
i had a good relationship with the coaching staff.
what on-and-off-the-court factors influenced your  decision?
you’re going to be accountable.
i felt like i could be there and make  alabama my new home.
here are some of carter’s comments friday: why did you commit today?
we’ll just continue with this relationship and build upon it and hopefully send some more players to alabama in the future.”
“my parents and i got together and talked about everything.
“my parents and i got together and talked  about everything.
speaking about coach grant: “he’s a no nonsense coach.
click here for a list  of all team newsletters.
"a lot of things kids  don’t want to hear.
he does have a good personality, but he just keeps everything in perspective.
that is what guys come to christian life center academy for is to take the next step to go to the next level to play for a school in a good conference and get a great degree.
this website is an unofficial independent source of news and information, and is not affiliated with any school, team, or league.
it really shows the directions that our program is headed when  guys get a chance to choose between great schools likeole miss and alabama.
we’ll just continue with this relationship and build upon it and  hopefully send some more players to alabama in the future.”
i felt i could do well academically  too.”
you’re going to be  accountable.
we don’t think there could have been a better  choice than alabama.
he said when coach grant told him that he kind of  reminded him of myself, just telling the truth.
“he just told me in our conversations that he said coach grant told  him the truth and not what he needed to hear.
basketball > alabama > recruiting
c jason carter (profile)
all those factors combined i think and the possibility to play early influenced his decision.”
apr 22, 2010 commitment catch up -by scouthoops.com
[view my hotlist] add topics to my hotlist get free email alerts with news about your favorite topics.
not  only coach (antoine) pettway and coach grant, but i felt i connected with all  the other coaches when i was in tuscaloosa.
socially at alabama it was a good fit.
what factors played a role in the decision?
related stories down to two sec schools for  texas hoopster -by  foxsportsnext.com  apr 22, 2010 commitment catch up -by  scouthoops.com  apr 26, 2010 thoughts from carter after bama visit -by   bamamag.com  apr 19, 2010 magazine coverage get the 2012 recruiting yearbook and a full  year of'bama magazine with an annual total access pass.
daily format weekly digest add players to my hotlist get free email alerts with news  about your favorite players.
not saying anybody else told him differently, but a lot of time when people are recruiting you they tell you everything’s going to be peaches and cream, we are going to be great, we’re going to smile and we’re going to have a fun time.
[view my hotlist] places to go: - scout.com - college - teams - college basketball - college football - junior college football - recruiting - football recruiting - basketball recruiting - nfl - mlb - nba - high school - fox sports things to do: things to buy: things to know: - about us - privacy policy new!
subscribe to our newsletter to have our newest articles emailed to you on a daily or weekly basis.
alabama is where my heart is and that is where i wanted to  be.
on friday evening, word came that bama would also add a big man for the 2010-11 season.
copyright © bamamag.com and scout.com.
free email newsletter don't miss any news  or features from bamamag.com.
related stories down to two sec schools for texas hoopster -by foxsportsnext.com
that  is what guys come to christian life center academy for is to take the next step  to go to the next level to play for a school in a good conference and get a  great degree.
click link to add tomy hotlist.
hopefully in the future this won’t be our last player to go to alabama.
additional comments from coach wilson: “just as a program, every time a kid signs with a college, it really makes me proud.
carter,  a native of new orleans whose family was displaced by hurricane katrina, is  living in humble, texas, and played for christian life center academy.
we are going to work hard.’
jason carter, a 6-8, 230-pound forward, told ’bama magazine and bamamag.com that he would sign withalabama.
what would you like to say to the alabama faithful?
he likes that, and he knows that he needs that along with he really enjoyed playing with the guys.
msn privacy legal advertise on msn about our ads rss © 2012 microsoft |
“he just told me in our conversations that he said coach grant told him the truth and not what he needed to hear.
he knows there is a time and place  for everything
bing - entertainment - money - lifestyle - more search site search options - search this site - search web - scout home - college - teams - football - basketball - junior college football - recruiting - nfl - mlb - nba - high school - alabama home - forums - latest news - football - stories - roster - schedule - team stats - football recruiting - hot news - prospects - eligibility - combines - search - visits - commits - videos - team rankings - basketball - stories - roster - schedule - team stats - basketball recruiting - hot news - prospects - eligibility - search - visits - commits - videos - team rankings - tickets - shop bama basketball gets its big man jason carter by a.p. steadham bamamag.com posted apr 24, 2010 | more alabama men’s basketball coach anthony grant had added three guards in grant’s first full year to recruit for the crimson tide.
i felt like i could be there and make alabama my new home.
bama basketball gets its big man jason carter
“i came right out and told him i wanted to be a part of the crimson tide basketball team.”
additional comments from coach wilson: “just as a program, every time a kid signs with a college, it really  makes me proud.
we’re all excited on our end about jason going to  alabama.”
he said welcome to the family, and he was speechless.”