and, i think pitt can be competitive in football in the acc.
in basketball, we are probably going to get steamrolled for the first few seasons but the acc is a recruiting draw and with our coaching staff, we should only get better.
but to say we need wvu is rediculous.
i can see how it would bring down the other schools as well... just wishful thinking from a fan that travels to alot of games.
philadelphia (temple) is the  nation’s no. 4 market, dallas (smu) is no. 5 and houston is no. 10.
no. 4 market, dallas (smu) is no. 5 and houston is no. 10.
beyond navy, air force and ucf, a league source said “no one team is definitely next” as an expansion candidate.
we can't even recruit the best players in the country.
we kind of need each other.
reputation: 96 level: superstar since: nov 19, 2006 posted on: october 12, 2011 8:32
the newark star-ledger reported one proposed alignment discussed at tuesday’s meeting consisted of rutgers, uconn, south florida, ucf, temple and navy in an east division with west virginia, louisville, cincinnati, air force, smu and houston in a west division.
what conference are they in?
why would you include louisville but not cincinnati?
pm score: 115 big east plotting football, hoops divisions this is a perfect example of just how desperate the big east is getting.
same kind of situation for us, as much as i would hate to say it.
why do we need wvu for anything?
level: all-star since: aug 7, 2009 posted on: october 13, 2011 12:18 am score: 87
nobody would even care about either of us if it were not for the brawl.
score: 125 big east plotting football, hoops divisions davedawg, your gcc east looks ok except you really need to can georgia state.
sure the backyard brawl is great
sign-in forgot log-in or password ?
keep in mind that i did attend wvu before transfering to lsu.
some  league members support adding boise state because of the broncos’ recent  success, which would help the league with its future bcs status.
category: ncaaf tags: air force, army, big 12, big east, boise state, cincinnati, houston, louisville, navy, rutgers, south florida, temple, ucf, uconn, west virginia « prev · 1 · 2 · 3 · 4 · 5 · 6 · 7 · 8 · 9 · 10 · next » commentsadd a comment clab4tune reputation: 1 level: amateur since: oct 12, 2011 posted on: october 13, 2011 10:35 am score: 96 big east plotting football, hoops divisions secrocks1, i understood ya.
they are far from it.
while commissioner john marinatto said in a statement monday the league would consider a model with 12 football members, part of tuesday’s call was discussing the possibility of splitting the football and basketball conference into divisions, once the football side is replenished.
we are confident that boise state  will be well positioned for future success, and we will evaluate our status  with the best interests of the entire university in mind.
i realize you think i'm hating on wvu by bringing up the fact that the acc and sec have completely rejected the school and the big xii only looks at wvu as a last resort.
philadelphia (temple) is the nation’s
don't forget that pitt owes a lot to wvu as so does pitt.
[ reply to comment ] « prev · 1 · 2 · 3 · 4 · 5 · 6 · 7 · 8 · 9 · 10 · next » about mcmurphy's law
[ reply to comment ] bcstpete reputation: 96 level: superstar since: oct 17, 2007
pm score: 88 big east plotting football, hoops divisions georgia fan: "the other six teams are simply not bcs caliber."
wvu will , in my opinion, not stay.
the presidents, chancellors and athletic directors continued to discuss potential expansion candidates.
however, there remains the very real possibility louisville and west  virginia may not be in the league and bound for the big 12 if missouri leaves  for the sec or the big 12 expands to 12 teams.
what make temple, smu and houston attractive to the big east, one source  said, is their respective television markets.
a league source also told cbssports.com that army is no longer being considered as a candidate by the big east.
name: private  gender:  member since: may  23, 2011 email: private  favorite teams big east plotting football, hoops divisions posted on: october 11,  2011 1:50 pm officials from what’s left of the big east’s dwindling football  membership had another conference call on tuesday morning and there remains no  specific timetable on adding ucf, but “appears an invitation is  forthcoming” for the knights, the league’s no. 1 target.
compete for up to $3,500 with fantasy baseball premium games.
but it is more attractive than wvu in just about every aspect.
it is time for those two conferences to put the big east out of it's misery.
however,  others believe boise state, located nearly 700 miles west of air force and  nearly 2,200 miles from tampa/usf, is simply too far to consider.
well, you guys are an outstanding program!
big east plotting football, hoops divisions big east planning to add six teams.
yes i've been a pitt fan my entire life.
navy, air force and boise state are being considered as football members  only, while ucf, temple, houston and smu are at the top of the list as  all-sports members so it’s unknown right now how large the basketball  membership could grow.
boise state is really out of the question because of the distance between boise and the big east teams.
the views expressed in this blog are solely those of the author and do not reflect the views of cbs sports or cbssports.com visit other cbs interactive sites select site cbs cares cbs films cbs radio cbs.com cbsinteractive cbsnews.com cbssports.com chow clicker cnet college network find articles gamespot help.com last.fm maxpreps metacritic.com moneywatch mysimon radio.com search.com shopper.com showtime smartplanet techrepublic the insider tv.com urbanbaby.com
you also wouldn't have your steal without the electricity we provide.
central fantasy news and analysis - fantasy football player news, rankings, projections - fantasy baseball player news, rankings, projections - fantasy basketball player news, rankings, projections - fantasy hockey player news, rankings, projections - nfl home - draft - scores - standings - schedules - stats - teams - players - transactions - free agents - injuries - experts - video - message board - rapidreports - blog - fantasy news - mlb home - scores - standings - schedules - stats - teams - players - transactions - injuries - experts - video - message board - fantasy news - blog - nba home - scores - playoff picture - standings - schedules - stats - teams - players - transactions - injuries - experts - video - message board - fantasy news - blog - nhl home - scores - playoff picture - standings - schedules - stats - teams - players - transactions - injuries - video - message board - fantasy news - blog - college fb home - scores - standings - schedules - stats - teams - players - rankings - experts - video - message board - rapidreports - recruiting - spring practices - blog - college bb home - brackets - scores - standings - schedules - stats - teams - players - rankings - experts - picks - video - rapidreports - message board - recruiting - blog - golf home - masters - leaderboard - schedules - players - stats - expert picks - video - message board - course guide - blog - nascar home - sprint cup - nationwide - trucks - teams - tracks - video - message board - blog - tennis home - scores - schedules - rankings - players - message board - high school home - football recruiting - hoops recruiting - football rankings - hoops rankings - girls volleyball rankings - girls volleyball teams - bowling - boxing - horse racing - ufc - site index - cbs sports - cbs sports network - showtime - cbssports.com shop - nfl shop - mlb shop - nhl shop - college apparel - nba store - dvd store - auctions - memorabilia - video home - masters live - ulive - live college games - fantasy baseball 360 - conversations with cbs sports - a game of honor - tim brando show - community home - my profile - my blog - groups - my settings -
“they’ve been honest with us and that they’re not interested because of the challenges they had previously in conference usa,” the source said.
some league members support adding boise state because of the broncos’ recent success, which would help the league with its future bcs status.
well georgia fan, i remember you not being able to score a touchdown on us.
teams have to fly into pittsburgh and drive for over an hour.
doesn't take a genius to see these schools aren't confident in the leadership.
i spent two years at the school so i do have a pretty good idea about the school.
the six teams in the big east leave the exit door open by refusing to up the exit fee.
[ reply to comment ] notsobigeast reputation: 8 level: amateur since: oct 6, 2011 posted on: october 12, 2011 5:57 pm score: 7 big east plotting football, hoops divisions why do they run every play, you ask?
[ reply to comment ] davedawgatl reputation: 0 level: amateur since: oct 5, 2011
privacy policy | ad choice | terms of use | mobile user agreement | cbs sports is a registered trademark of cbs broadcasting inc.
better than the pending alternatives.
bergersphere, 03/10/12 1:16
but pitt can do without it.
everyone knows that west virginia will take any offer that any other bcs conference may make.
blogs - it's true: i'm moving 03/12/12 11:22 am - big east "open" to pitt, syracuse leaving early 03/07/12
enter your bracket for a chance to win a trip for 4 to the 2013 ncaa® final four® see all games visit app
im a ecu grad and love playing the acc teams (even though we almost always lose), just was saying that we havent had the best of luck against them.
the big east is probably dead for football.
eye on football, 03/10/12 11:41 am mcmurphy's law's tags brett mcmurphy's favorites - big east (70) - big 12 (46) - west virginia (40) - houston (31) - syracuse (31) - boise state (30) - louisville (30) - sec (30) - pittsburgh (27) - ucf (27) - acc (21) - navy (21) - smu (21) - tcu (20) - oklahoma (19) - air force (18) - oklahoma state (17) - rutgers (17) - byu (16) - cincinnati (15) - alabama (14) - big ten (14) - lsu (14) - missouri (14) - texas (14) - uconn (14) - nebraska (13) - temple (13) - memphis (12) - south florida (12) - arkansas (11) - baylor (11) - florida (11) - kansas state (11) - notre dame (11) - texas a&m (11) - clemson (10) - john marinatto (10) - mike slive (10) - mountain west (10) - ohio state (10) - san diego state (10) - southern miss (10) - virginia tech (10) - bcs (9) - conference usa (9) - florida state (9) - michigan (9) - stanford (9) - auburn (8) - ncaa (8) - pac-12 (8) - penn state (8) - south carolina (8) - usc (8) - georgia tech (7) - michigan state (7) - oregon (7) - akron (6) - georgia (6) - mac (6) - marshall (6) - miami (6) - mississippi state (6) - tennessee (6) - tulane (6) - uab (6) - duke (5) - east carolina (5) - iowa (5) - maryland (5) - n.c. state (5) - new mexico (5) - sun belt (5) - tulsa (5) - utep (5) - villanova (5) - wac (5) - wisconsin (5) - army (4) - colorado (4) - colorado state (4) - georgetown (4) - kentucky (4) - les miles (4) - marquette (4) - minnesota (4) - north carolina (4) - oliver luck (4) - providence (4) - seton hall (4) - texas tech (4) - tom holmoe (4) - unlv (4) - utah (4) - vanderbilt (4) - virginia (4) - washington (4) - atlantic 10 (3) - bobby petrino (3) no favorites
the cadets were 9-41 in c-usa play and finished last in the league five of the seven seasons.
or are you just speaking from your a**.
boise state president bob kustra said in a statement monday that the broncos “are looking forward to their inaugural season” in the mountain west conference and he “has great confidence in the future direction of the mountain west.”
“the landscape of college athletics is exceptionally fluid, and we are continuing to monitor the situation.
army was in c-usa from 1998-2004.
among those mentioned were ucf, air force,  navy, temple, houston, smu and boise state, a league source told cbssports.com.
ecu won't get into the acc, again i wish it would happen but the acc already has the nc market.
the other six teams are simply not bcs caliber.
louisville is seen as the #1 target of the big 12-3+1, if missouri is accepted by the sec, leaving the big 12-3+1 a 9 team conference.
another thing, you all wouldn't have electricity if it weren't for people from wv.
our tv market is on the small side.
with cincy in your east division it would look pretty good.
run your bracket pool online withbracket manager.
and i are moving scott miller's bull pennings, 03/10/12 3:17
the championships pitt won are decades old, some even older.
however, there remains the very real possibility louisville and west virginia may not be in the league and bound for the big 12 if missouri leaves for the sec or the big 12 expands to 12 teams.
the big east is at the mercy of both the big 12 and the sec.
without wvu, there would be no pitt football.
my account - member search - blog search - about community brett mcmurphy mcmurphy's law name: private gender: member since: may 23, 2011 email: private favorite teams big east plotting football, hoops divisions posted on: october 11, 2011 1:50
the newark star-ledger reported one proposed alignment discussed at  tuesday’s meeting consisted of rutgers, uconn, south florida, ucf, temple  and navy in an east division with west virginia, louisville, cincinnati, air  force, smu and houston in a west division.
however, others believe boise state, located nearly 700 miles west of air force and nearly 2,200 miles from tampa/usf, is simply too far to consider.
boise  state’s athletic achievements, academic and research successes,  popularity, and vision for future growth make the university an extremely  valuable conference partner.”
navy, air force and boise state are being considered as football members only, while ucf, temple, houston and smu are at the top of the list as all-sports members so it’s unknown right now how large the basketball membership could grow.
i'm not saying pitt is an elite program by any means.
you only make yourself look pathetic.
you have to admit that wvu has poor academics, facilities and no media market share.
“while we are certainly flattered to be mentioned in connection with  other conferences and we hold those leagues in high regard, our current focus  is on continuing to build the outstanding athletic programs that have helped  make boise state a popular and compelling national brand," kustra said.
when we can recruit like lsu and oklahoma, then we can look for the next level...not jump conferences out of desperation.
please think before you comment.
“the landscape of college athletics is exceptionally fluid, and we  are continuing to monitor the situation.
plus traveling to wvu is a nightmare.
today, pitt has talent, as does wvu, but neither team is ready for a national championship.
| help not a member, register now!
but they dont belong in an aq conference [ reply to comment ] ucfanatic- reputation: 65 level: pro since: nov 28, 2010
zdnet cbs cares | cbs films | cbs radio | cbs.com | cbsinteractive | cbsnews.com | cbssports.com | chow | clicker | cnet | college network | find articles | gamespot | help.com | last.fm |maxpreps | metacritic.com | moneywatch | mysimon | radio.com | search.com | shopper.com | showtime | smartplanet | techrepublic | the insider | tv.com | urbanbaby.com | zdnet about cbssports.com | advertise | site map | development center © 2012 cbs interactive.
sportsline is a registered service mark of sportsline.com, inc.
beyond navy, air force and ucf, a league source said “no one team is  definitely next” as an expansion candidate.
posted on: october 12, 2011 11:59 pm score: 88 big east plotting football, hoops divisions its the triple option dude, of course theyre going to lead in rushing.
i could make every game if that were the conf.
pitt will be of no relevance in this conference in football.
i don't think memphis and tulane are gonna cut it if you're going for bsc status.
[ reply to comment ] burton8175 reputation: 87
they cant get skill position players so they have to run it.
if you look at the seven teams mentioned in the article, only boise state has bcs type credentials.
boise state president bob kustra said in a statement monday that the  broncos “are looking forward to their inaugural season” in the  mountain west conference and he “has great confidence in the future  direction of the mountain west.”
but thats a longshot, because wvu will leave and don't be surprised that we end up in the acc or sec or big 12 even after all the so called turndowns.
as for the conf, yea it would never fly with all the tv markets everyone needs to reach and kids from outside the areas wouldn't want to come play in such a small conf.
i realize pitt is a second tier school.
pitt leaving the conference for the acc will be the single biggest mistake the university will ever make.
but lets get back to football.
follow me on twitter: @mcmurphycbs subscribe to this blog recent blog entries mcmurphy's law cbssports.com
“while we are certainly flattered to be mentioned in connection with other conferences and we hold those leagues in high regard, our current focus is on continuing to build the outstanding athletic programs that have helped make boise state a popular and compelling national brand," kustra said.
wvu will do just fine with or without pitt, or anyone else that leaves the conference.
category: ncaaf tags: air  force, army, big 12, big east, boise state, cincinnati, houston, louisville,  navy, rutgers, south florida, temple, ucf, uconn, west virginia « prev · 1 · 2 · 3 · 4 · 5 · 6 · 7 · 8 · 9 · 10 · next »
and, our history in both football and basketball is spotty at best.
[ reply to comment ] secrocks1
the cadets were 9-41 in c-usa play and  finished last in the league five of the seven seasons.
i believe that you think pitt is a national power.
“they’ve been honest  with us and that they’re not interested because of the challenges they  had previously in conference usa,” the source said.
posted on: october 12, 2011 8:54
i can't even find anything about a ga st football team.
they're not far apart.
but if we do, we will be the only reason the big east will keep aq status.
maybe you should lose your aq.
we are confident that boise state will be well positioned for future success, and we will evaluate our status with the best interests of the entire university in mind.
but pitt had no choice but to leave for the acc because the big east is going down.
level: all-star since: aug 19, 2007 posted on: october 12, 2011 6:19 pm score: 123 big east plotting football, hoops divisions *****bernierotton********, why do you make stupid, uneducated, discriminating remarks towards wv?
7:35 pm - mac reorganizes after temple departure 03/07/12 4:24 pm - big east adds temple as an all sports member 03/07/12 10:38 am - temple to big east after it settles with mac 03/02/12
pm officials from what’s left of the big east’s dwindling football membership had another conference call on tuesday morning and there remains no specific timetable on adding ucf, but “appears an invitation is forthcoming” for the knights, the league’s no. 1 target.
among those mentioned were ucf, air force, navy, temple, houston, smu and boise state, a league source told cbssports.com.
in this scenario, which we both know ain't gonna happen, i'd court byu for the west and maybe add fiu to the east and move uab to the west.
we are both just not that consistant.
we are a wanted team, just as pitt was.
stream saturday and sunday on cbs: the masters live on cbs sports network: tim brando show search - fantasy - nfl - mlb - nba - nhl - college fb - college bb - golf - nascar - tennis - high school - more sports - video - community - tv - mobile - shop games the official fantasy baseball commissioner game of mlb.com.
[ reply to comment ] newmcatz reputation: 91
i think pitt will do well in the acc.
boise state’s athletic achievements, academic and research successes, popularity, and vision for future growth make the university an extremely valuable conference partner.”
should call it the (big conf usa east 30) since no conf seems to have the right numbers at the end of the conf names [ reply to comment ] bernierotten reputation: 99 level: superstar since: oct 30, 2007 posted on: october 13, 2011 9:27 am score: 106 big east plotting football, hoops divisions burton, i never said pitt was a great program.
what make temple, smu and houston attractive to the big east, one source said, is their respective television markets.
if west virginia or louisville leaves the big east, they are finished as a legitimate bcs conference.
as for the conf usa teams they so get out why they can and bring back some old members (cinny and louy) and creat a new conf much like the preposed (gcc haha) in earlier post.
posted on: october 12, 2011 5:56 pm score: -20 "gulf coast conference" forgot about the texas schools - need them for 12 total teams and two divisions anyway: gcc west: smu houston tulane so miss. memphis louisville gcc east: wvu ecu uab ga state ucf usf good rivalries, covers the population centers from texas to the east coast.
pm - eye on football blog has a new home!
[ reply to comment ] bigdaddyqh
2:58 pm - i've moved freestyle, 03/13/12 12:31 pm - i've moved dodds and ends, 03/10/12 4:45 pm - bull pennings
a league source also told cbssports.com that army is no longer being  considered as a candidate by the big east.
while commissioner john marinatto said in a statement monday the league  would consider a model with 12 football members, part of tuesday’s call  was discussing the possibility of splitting the football and basketball  conference into divisions, once the football side is replenished.
our academics are average at best.
reputation: 89 level: all-star since: nov 3, 2007 posted on: october 12, 2011 6:33 pm
the presidents, chancellors and athletic directors continued to discuss  potential expansion candidates.
there also appears to be conflicting opinions on pursuing boise state.
up-to-the-minute college football news, views and analysis.