our experience has  been to make your plays 15 – 20 minutes prior to game time to let lines
play delivery all plays will be  delivered with a line constraint or specified pitcher.
playoffs receive 30 days of expert col basketball action at a fraction of the cost - only$149.95!
this will make the service more efficient, allow more time for handicapping, and preserve the value of certain handicapping information longer.
our experience has been to make your plays 15 20 minutes prior to game time to let lines settle out.
the aim of our service is to  make you money.
our mlb monthly picks packages includes: · 4 weeks of  baseball regular season ·
since 1987  we have set new standards of integrity, customer service, and customer  satisfaction in the sports service industry.
football, basketball and baseball are all included with this package where  applicable.
release times & placing your wagers release times may vary day to day depending on the sport, betting market  and how quickly sports-books post lines with full limits.
monthly picks packages includes: · 4 weeks of ncaa  regular season · mid week plays ·
any use  of this information in violation of any federal, state or local laws is  strictly prohibited.
with over 2 decades of expertise in the field of sports  handicapping we can make this all possible for you.
our nba monthly picks packages includes: · 4 weeks of nba regular season ·
any use of this information in violation of any federal, state or local laws is strictly prohibited.
the end result is that we will have the opportunity to provide you with more plays.
you receive 30 days of expert action on every sport depending on the season.
line movement & sports-books
we urge you to pay close  attention to them.
we will not release  a game to customers unless we know that we have the latest crucial handicapping  information.
no portion of this website may be reproduced or redistributed without prior express written consent of sportrends, inc.
sides receive 30 days of expert col football action at a fraction of the cost - only$149.95!
our ncaa bb monthly picks packages includes: · 4 weeks of ncaa  regular season · playoffs receive 30 days of expert col basketball action at a fraction of the cost -  only$149.95!
our nba monthly picks packages includes: · 4 weeks of nba  regular season ·
this will make the service more efficient, allow more time  for handicapping, and preserve the value of certain handicapping information  longer.
for over 2 decades in handicapping sports events, you can depend on  sportrends to provide researched college football plays.
ready to really win the big money, sportrends presents the following sports investment packages!
we also recommend experimenting with different sports-books, some move lines faster than others, so see what works best for you.
join now our prices are very affordable and will remain that way  because of our high volume traffic.
playoffs receive 30 days of expert pro basketball action at a fraction of the cost -  only$149.95!
if you're a sports investor...
no portion of this website may be reproduced or  redistributed without prior express written consent of sportrends, inc.
our nfl monthly picks packages includes: · 4 weeks of nfl regular season · 4 nfl monday games · 3 nfl thursday games · 3 nfl saturday games receive 30 days of expert pro football action at a fraction of the cost - only$149.95!
sportrends is a highly selective sports service.
© 1987 sportrends inc.
since 1987 we have set new standards of integrity, customer service, and customer satisfaction in the sports service industry.
the aim of our service is to make you money.
so team up with us  this season.
order | software overview | free software | download stats | free software |premium internet service | free daily picks team stats |  vegas odds | sports links | advertising | contact us | home © 1987 sportrends inc.
football, basketball and baseball are all included with this package where applicable.
we will not release a game to customers unless we know that we have the latest crucial handicapping information.
it is essential to  optimize yourself and be prepared to place wagers immediately upon release in  order to take full advantage of this service.
for over 2 decades in handicapping sports events, you can depend on sportrends to provide researched college football plays.
so if you’re looking for a  no-nonsense, highly profitable approach to sports betting, look no further .
our nfl monthly picks packages includes: · 4 weeks of nfl  regular season · 4 nfl monday  games · 3 nfl saturday  games receive 30 days of expert pro football action at a fraction of the cost -  only$149.95!
so if youre looking for a no-nonsense, highly profitable approach to sports betting, look no further .
our mlb monthly picks packages includes: · 4 weeks of baseball regular season ·
the end result is that we will have the opportunity to provide you with  more plays.
© 1987 college and pro football prophet.
with over 2 decades of expertise in the field of sports handicapping we can make this all possible for you.
monthly picks packages includes: · 4 weeks of ncaa regular season · mid week plays · money line ·
all rights reserved.
release times & placing your wagers release times may vary day to day depending on the sport, betting market and how quickly sports-books post lines with full limits.
no write-ups all our sports selections will not include a write-up.
so team up with us this season.
we are confident our proven method will yield the highest possible return on your investment.
join now our prices are very affordable and will remain that way because of our high volume traffic.
our ncaa bb monthly picks packages includes: · 4 weeks of ncaa regular season ·
it is essential to optimize yourself and be prepared to place wagers immediately upon release in order to take full advantage of this service.
you receive 30 days of expert action on  every sport depending on the season.
with over 2 decades of experience in handicapping sports events, we know  exactly what is required to beat the odds-makers.
we put our resources to work for you by providing the best nba sports handicapping service with over 20 years of expertise.
we also recommend experimenting  with different sports-books, some move lines faster than others, so see what  works best for you.
we put our resources to work for you by providing the best nba sports  handicapping service with over 20 years of expertise.
what to expect from sportrends
by being more selective we are better able to produce a high win percentage and are a service that can be utilized with confidence.
we believe there's never a "lock" on baseball and the only way  to win is through rock-solid handicapping, good money management and  reliable information.
sides receive 30 days of expert col football action at a fraction of the cost -  only$149.95!
we don't claim to lock in a winner every single day, but we can assure you  through meticulous research backed by 2 decades of sports handicapping  experience, we will produce consistent winners.
with over 2 decades of experience in handicapping sports events, we know exactly what is required to beat the odds-makers.
we are confident our  proven method will yield the highest possible return on your investment.
by being more selective we are better able to produce a high win  percentage and are a service that can be utilized with confidence.
we don't claim to lock in a winner every single day, but we can assure you through meticulous research backed by 2 decades of sports handicapping experience, we will produce consistent winners.
play delivery all plays will be delivered with a line constraint or specified pitcher.
we urge you to pay close attention to them.
no write-ups all our sports selections will not  include a write-up.
we believe there's never a "lock" on baseball and the only way to win is through rock-solid handicapping, good money management and reliable information.
playoffs receive 30 days of expert pro basketball action at a fraction of the cost - only$149.95!