i don't have any experience with college soccer.
the cult is not prone to share with  anyone.
college sports by charlie back to top | back home | comments kid's sports go on and on.
then someone somewhere wondered why kid's couldn't play baseball well into the fall.
at first, few schools incorporated it into their sports program.
soccer is a superior activity to american football and anyone who can't understand why is proof of why.
helmets, shoulder pads, and all that  other equipment required to be worn by a football player is expensive.
while  baseball tries to accommodate soccer's schedule in the fall and soccer tries to  accommodate baseball's in the spring, conflicts inevitably arise that prevent  kids from playing both sports at the same time.
passionate soccer parents quickly labeled football as the enemy.
the family shuttles from playing field to  playing field, carrying a complicated assortment of gatorade, dunkin munchkins  and changes of clothing.
defeated my adult egos.
there is not enough time to do everything, even in childhood.
they are not restricted to a  schedule cap as are school teams.
even as schools  began to add soccer to their athletic programs it was initially treated at most  places as a second-class, minor sport.
each happily owned a three-month segment of the school year.
the birth of the odp,  olympic development program, has become the center stage of american  soccer.
club soccer is all about the individual and not the team concept.
"we have no weekends," complains jack r., a connecticut father whose son plays on a travel team in the fall.
james compton jamesc96485@earthlink.net earthlink revolves around you.
for what? your comments home about this site sitemap college football fcs football stadiums rivals humor great links advertising quotes sports betting college charlie blog kids: soccer comments from a reader: high school soccer and college soccer are a farce.
there are now  personal trainers - pitching coaches and hitting coaches who charge big bucks  to give kids personal instruction between games.
soccer is the religion.
time out, please there once were three scholastic seasons: football, basketball and baseball.
soccer is a cult, not a sport.
here was a game that relied on  the feet.
odp is a lying joke...reel those parents in and make some money.
any child psychologist will tell you that specializing in a sport in middle school/high school is not good for the physical or emotional development of the child.
there are now personal trainers - pitching coaches and hitting coaches who charge big bucks to give kids personal instruction between games.
that's a parental issue.
the latter three are now playing year round and the leaders strongly encourage kids to specialize in soccer.
instead of being in sunday school and church  on sundays, parents and kids are on a soccer field miles and miles from  home.
high school soccer teams suffer as well.
and soccer in the us quickly became a cult rather than a sport.
it's not as if his generation did not play ball year-round.
in fact the odp manual states that missing an odp practice because of a school event is an unexcused absense.
what is the mission of the ussf? ...
my requirement is that he have some regularly scheduled athletic activity, to keep him healthy.
baseball, football, and basketball clubs just wanna have fun.
the "development" of my middle school soccer player has included increased stamina, increased soccer skills, better sportsmanship in both winning and losing, development of self control in the face of unfair referee calls.
there are kids as young as nine years old  who play 60+ baseball or softball games in the summer.
travel and premier teams  play in tournaments all around the country.
correct me if i'm wrong.
there were few qualified coaches and football schools weren't going to let soccer get on the field in the fall.
then someone somewhere had the idea to play in the spring, like they do in europe.
when college soccer programs start putting 80,000 folks in the stands for a match, then i'm sure soccer will take its proper place in american sports.
it has carried over into his school league according to comments from his school coach.
my experience with soccer has been that the schools wouldn't pick it up as a sport, so a local recreational league was developed by parents for their children who love soccer.
travel and premier leagues can draw kids who otherwise might be on their school varsity squad.
and parents, not school administrators, are running the whole show.
club soccer adheres to the established rules of the game around the world.
and it was  good - for the kids.
football is a  rough sport where size matters.
there are no academic rules for going to the movies either, but my child isn't going if he hasn't done his homework.
it's not soccer players and their families who are "cultish."
sports were under the umbrella and protection of the  educational system.
minimal contact made it appealing to moms.
passionate soccer  parents quickly labeled football as the enemy.
parents don't have a thought about their children's development, just scholarships and winning games.
middle and high school age children have no say in what sport they play -- the parents decide.
the result is that high school teams in small towns in rural areas are severely limited in their ability to compete with schools from the large urban and suburban areas since those players simply cannot form club teams without running afoul of the six player rule.
i suspect that most parents are protective of their children in the same way.
club coaches lie like hell to parents.
your primary assumptions seem to be 1.
just as the mission of the nfl is to play football.
helmets, shoulder pads, and all that other equipment required to be worn by a football player is expensive.
see youth sports your comment develop soccer power and improve youth soccer fitness training with out pricey equipment, a personal trainer or an expensive gym membership .
club teams - the non-scolastic teams - now have parents funding coaches and travel.
the thing is, life is limiting.
an advanced club travel team, where parents have to spent $5,000 instead of $3,000 for their kid to get abused.
anyway, is it just sports or do they think any sort of specialization in the teen years too limiting, like the child who plays cello all the time or who spends his/her entire free time building robots?
probably one or two wouldn't say that.
we play on a field without bleachers, with a port-a-potty, with no concessions stand.
there's greater attendance at the football games, because they are school sponsered and have a decent place to play.
and it was good - for the kids.
scholastic/collegiate associations place these restrictions on soccer not to keep the games in the "proper educational perspective" but rather to prevent soccer from receiving equivalent exposure to that of the 'revenue' or 'traditional' sports of football/basketball/baseball.
yet, more local kids here play soccer than any other single sport, except baseball (which, by the way, is club baseball).
because schools were slow to embrace soccer as part of the scholastic program, parents decided to organize, coach, and manage soccer teams for their kids.
in comparison, soccer is dirt cheap.
there are kids as young as nine years old who play 60+ baseball or softball games in the summer.
high school athletic associations have a desire to protect young athletes from exploitation by folks who drain kids physically and emotionally by playing far too many soccer matches or baseball and softball games a year.
sports were under the umbrella and protection of the educational system.
frankly, club soccer is all about the adults, not the kids.
there were few  qualified coaches and football schools weren't going to let soccer get on the  field in the fall.
and parents, not school  administrators, are running the whole show.
club teams - the non-scolastic teams -  now have parents funding coaches and travel.
but four  sports in three seasons made it impossible to play them all.
parent egos runs the show.
click to see from brentwood, tennessee parent any child psychologist will tell you that specializing in a sport in middle school/high school is not good for the physical or emotional development of the child.
the ncaa and nfhs alter the rules of the game willy nilly in order to 'americanize' the game.
this "development" is for my son, not for anyone else.
the games aren't year round, but the practices sure are.
therefore the overall development of the gam e is stifled in areas where most people are very protective of the 'traditional sports', especially football.
but let's don't just blame the soccer fanatics.
but their games consisted of  stickball or whiffle-ball or even pickup baseball without the pressure of  teams, leagues and coaches.
thank goodness the government is here to protect our children for/from us.
even as schools began to add soccer to their athletic programs it was initially treated at most places as a second-class, minor sport.
there were a few foreign-born  parents around who had played soccer before coming to the states.
soccer clubs are parent-focused, not player-focused.
if scholastic/collegiate athletic associations don't want the ussf to encourage its players not to play scholastic/collegiate soccer, maybe those associations should think about cooperating with soccer's true governing body instead of trying to undermine it.
travel teams require kids as early as nine  years old (and their parents) to visit other towns, often hours away, to play  against regional teams from other places.
he picks soccer, year round.
charlie's reply: hello, james.
then someone somewhere wondered why kid's  couldn't play baseball well into the fall.
then they added summer "conditioning."
the latter three are now playing year round and the leaders  strongly encourage kids to specialize in soccer.
as should any parent with any sense.
he loves soccer more than any other sport, although he'll play a pick-up game with neighborhood kids on any sport at any time.
is there some study or research showing this?
why do you feel high school athletic associations want to protect young athletes and club athletic associations want to exploit young athletes?
and club soccer "develops" players for who / what??
soccer  is an international sport and american football is not.
do the high school athletic associations realize they are "protecting young athletes" from their own parents?
jack wonders what happened to the simple  pleasures of leisurely sundays and fallow seasons.
soccer is an international sport and american football is not.
"if johnny plays for me year-round, he will get a college scholarship".
there were rules about a schedule cap.
my child has learned a lot about sportsmanship and team playing in his soccer club league.
but four sports in three seasons made it impossible to play them all.
this obviously draws ire from school coaches and peers who  play for the school team.
soccer is a cult, not a  sport.
we now have  basically four levels of soccer: scholastic, recreational, travel, and  premier.
kids lose another one.
professionally trained educators ran the programs.
curiously, the kansas association has no six player rule for girls...who don't threaten football's popularity.
the birth of the odp, olympic development program, has become the center stage of american soccer.
soccer is an import.
it's the school system that won't accept a new sport for fear that they'd have to cut back on a traditional sport.
soccer clubs want to rule the world.
boy, parents sure are stupid.
jack wonders what happened to the simple pleasures of leisurely sundays and fallow seasons.
all hell broke loose and a kid's nightmare began.
time out, please there  once were three scholastic seasons: football, basketball and baseball.
because schools were slow to embrace  soccer as part of the scholastic program, parents decided to organize, coach,  and manage soccer teams for their kids.
you ranted to the wrong guy on this subject.
specifically in kansas, the kansas high school activities association limits high school boys players from participating in club soccer with its 'six player rule' which bans more than six members of the same high school team from playing on the same club team.
as the prestige of travel teams run by parents  and not educators grows, scholastic sports become trivial with the best  athletes opting out of the school program.
and while nothing prevents a child from trying out for a travel soccer team in one season after playing baseball in the other, his skills probably won't keep pace with his peers who are in soccer year-round.
at least schools don't play any sport year round.
travel and premier leagues can draw kids who otherwise might be on their school  varsity squad.
the cult is not prone to share with anyone.
scholastic soccer limits the amount of games players can play during the years in which it is most crucial for developing players to play as much as possible.
this obviously draws ire from school coaches and peers who play for the school team.
why isn't school participation enough? ...
football coaches were reluctant to allow soccer on their fields, even in the spring.
because there are folks out there making money through ussf by preying on the hopes of parents.
odp is a lying joke...
to play soccer games.
my 13 year old can pick whatever sport he wants to play.
if my child was ever verbally abused by a coach, i'd ask him if he wanted to stay on the team and yank him out if he didn't.
in  comparison, soccer is dirt cheap.
"we  have no weekends," complains jack r., a connecticut father whose son plays  on a travel team in the fall.
as the prestige of travel teams run by parents and not educators grows, scholastic sports become trivial with the best athletes opting out of the school program.
back to top   |  back home   | comments kid's  sports go on and on.
omg, they're probably a cult of crazy parents who don't care about their children.
then someone somewhere had the idea to play in the  spring, like they do in europe.
but let's don't  just blame the soccer fanatics.
football coaches were reluctant to  allow soccer on their fields, even in the spring.
there were a few foreign-born parents around who had played soccer before coming to the states.
however, baseball, football and basketball clubs are player-focused.
that's the way it appears in your presentation.
i'll alert the media.
they are not restricted to a schedule cap as are school teams.
the more organized, school-sponsered sports a kid plays, the better.
don't sports, especially if it's many sports -- limit a child from experiencing the arts?
and soccer in the us  quickly became a cult rather than a sport.
it's not as if his  generation did not play ball year-round.
i've never wittnessed as much verbal abuse anywhere else in sports than at a club soccer match.
at first, few  schools incorporated it into their sports program.
club soccer has no academic rules for participation.
i have never been told by any coach that my middle school child would get a college scholarship and would be highly suspicious of any who did.
thank you, anne holland, for your thoughtful,well-written comments!
reel those parents in and make some money.
for some reason, only parents show up to watch, to hike a 1/4 mile from the gravel parking lot, carrying a cooler and a chair.
but their games consisted of stickball or whiffle-ball or even pickup baseball without the pressure of teams, leagues and coaches.
football is a rough sport where size matters.
he's tried baseball, track and basketball.
the ncaa has actually used title ix to decrease the number of men's college soccer programs available, while the ussf, which is not legally bound by title ix has greatly expanded the opportunities for women and girls to play soccer without decreasing opportunitie s for men and boys.
my friend's football playing boys played football in the fall and they extended the season into the winter.
discover a basic, simple and effective youth soccer power development training program by using bodyweight and medicine balls to improve strength, power and speed.
instead of being in sunday school and church on sundays, parents and kids are on a soccer field miles and miles from home.
here was a game that relied on the feet.
and while nothing  prevents a child from trying out for a travel soccer team in one season after  playing baseball in the other, his skills probably won't keep pace with his  peers who are in soccer year-round.
then there came soccer.
at least, that seems to be your view.
travel teams require kids as early as nine years old (and their parents) to visit other towns, often hours away, to play against regional teams from other places.
well you are talking to the wrong guy here.
we now have basically four levels of soccer: scholastic, recreational, travel, and premier.
if that's not the case, explain the continued expansion of the bowl championship series and the ncaa basketball tournaments in addition to more regular season games in both football and basketball.
while baseball tries to accommodate soccer's schedule in the fall and soccer tries to accommodate baseball's in the spring, conflicts inevitably arise that prevent kids from playing both sports at the same time.
verbally abusive coaches, in any sport, won't last long where the parents are involved.
then they added spring "conditioning."
all hell broke loose and a  kid's nightmare began.
travel and premier teams play in tournaments all around the country.
nobody needs to "protect" football.
the family shuttles from playing field to playing field, carrying a complicated assortment of gatorade, dunkin munchkins and changes of clothing.