this condition generally  occurs in children and young adults, most often during intense exercise in cold  dry air.
gastrointestinal distress (stomach upset or pain) is the most common side effect of leukotriene antagonists.
in general, monitoring involves the following steps: a peak flow meter is the standard monitoring device for measuring peak  expiratory flow rate (pefr).
at least half of patients with asthma have gastroesophageal reflux disease (gerd), the cause of heartburn.
asthma symptoms vary in severity from occasional mild bouts of breathlessness to daily wheezing that lasts even when a patient takes large doses of medication.
few rigorous studies have evaluated herbal remedies for asthma.
patients whose persistent asthma does not respond to standard dosages of inhaled corticosteroids may need a higher dosage or the addition of a long-acting beta-agonist to their drug regimen.
allergy skin tests  may help diagnose allergic asthma, although they are not recommended for people  with year-round asthma.
doctors recommend that patients with even mild asthma monitor their own  conditions.
important irritants involved in asthma include cigarette smoke,  indoor chemicals, and air pollution.
bateman e, nelson h, bousquet j, kral k, sutton l, ortega h, yancey s. meta-analysis: effects of adding salmeterol to inhaled corticosteroids on serious asthma-related events.
diagnosis when asthma is suspected, the patient should describe for the doctor any  pattern related to the symptoms, and possible precipitating factors, including: whether symptoms are more frequent during the spring or fall (allergy  seasons).
sometimes, adjusting medications in anticipation of menstruation may help prevent attacks.
in general, monitoring involves the following steps: guidelines from the national asthma education and prevention program (naepp) emphasize that most asthma medications are safe for pregnant women.
some studies indicate that long-term exercise even helps control asthma and reduce hospitalization.
allergic asthma is triggered by inhaling certain substances (allergens) such as: an asthma attack can also be induced or aggravated by direct irritants to the lungs.
people with diabetes, heart disease, high blood pressure, hyperthyroidism, an enlarged prostate, or a history of seizures should use these drugs with caution.
mental health disturbances and behavioral changes have been associated with these medications.
occupational asthma: review of assessment, treatment, and compensation.
race and ethnicity african-americans have higher rates of asthma than caucasians or other  ethnic groups.
patients should track their medicine and  throw the device away when the last dose has been administered.
leukotrienes are powerful immune system factors that, in excess, produce a battery of damaging chemicals that can cause inflammation and spasms in the airways of people with asthma.
some  patients find that they are easier to manage than mdis.
they are also more likely to die of the disease.
whether exercise, a respiratory infection, or exposure to cold air has  ever triggered an attack.
asthma is usually chronic, although it occasionally goes into long periods of remission.
patients can greatly reduce the frequency and severity of asthma attacks by  understanding the difference between coping with asthma attacks and controlling  the disease over time.
such changes appear to  be two specific responses: the hyperreactive response (also called hyperresponsiveness) the inflammatory response these actions in the airway cause coughing, wheezing, and shortness of  breath (dyspnea), the classic symptoms of asthma.
ethnicity and  genetics, however, are less likely to play a role in these differences than  socioeconomic differences, such as having less access to optimal health care,  and greater likelihood of living in an urban area (another asthma risk factor).
hyperreactive response
always refer to the written action plan from your doctors and nurses.
(the inflammation itself must still be treated,  however, because it usually causes relapse.)
treatment general approach for treating and managing asthma while medications play an essential role in the management of asthma,  appropriate management of asthma involves much more: identifying and avoiding allergens and other asthma triggers following appropriate drug treatments home monitoring performed by either patient or family good communication between the doctor and patient needed psychosocial support treatment of asthma in all environments (school, work, exercise) the severity of asthma is classified into four groups:
these components are: symptom frequency, ranging from fewer than 2 days per week to throughout  the day nighttime awakenings, ranging from none to nightly short-acting beta2-agonist use for symptom control, ranging from 2 or  fewer days per week to several times per day interference with normal activity, ranging from none to extremely limited lung function as measured by fev1 and fev1/fvc, measured with pulmonary  function testing at the doctor's office number of exacerbations (sudden worsening) requiring oral corticosteroids,  ranging from none to two or more in the last 6 months treating symptoms versus controlling the disease patients can greatly reduce the frequency and severity of asthma attacks by  understanding the difference between coping with asthma attacks and controlling  the disease over time.
obesity studies report a strong association between obesity and asthma.
in adults, women are more likely to report severe symptoms than men.
jun 20;144(12):904-12.
the flesh around the ribs of the chest appears to be sucked in.
exercise can help control weight, which can help with asthma symptoms.
treatment of severe persistent asthma bronchial thermoplasty is an outpatient procedure that was fda-approved in  2010 but is reserved for select adult patients whose severe and persistent  asthma has not been helped by inhaled corticosteroids and long-acting beta  agonist medications.
the following are side effects of inhaled steroids: long-acting beta2-agonists (labas) are used for preventing an asthma attack (not for treating attack symptoms).
spirometry is frequently used to evaluate lung function in  people with obstructive or restrictive lung diseases such as asthma or cystic  fibrosis.
in both children and adults with existing allergic asthma,  an upper respiratory tract infection often worsens an attack.
weight loss in anyone who is obese and has asthma or shortness of breath helps reduce airway obstruction and improve lung function.
some women first develop asthma during or shortly after pregnancy, while others first develop it around the time of menopause (perimenopause).
asthma in older adults.
examples of inhaled corticosteroids: optimal timing of the dose is important and may vary depending on the medication.
these are the signs of well-controlled asthma: a stepwise approach is recommended for treating asthma.
unlike other chronic lung conditions, asthma usually first  appears in patients younger than age 30 and with chest x-rays that are normal.
in choosing therapy, doctors must also consider the risk an individual  patient has for more severe exacerbations.
people who enjoy running should probably choose an indoor track to avoid pollutants.
patients with more severe cases should use them in combination with other drugs.
leukotriene antagonists (also called anti-leukotrienes or leukotriene modifiers) are pills that block leukotrienes.
anaphylaxis may occur up to 24 hours after the dose is given.
neither vacuuming nor the use of anti-mite carpet shampoo, however, is effective in removing mites in house dust.
living in a damp house is counterproductive.
the overuse of bronchodilators can  have serious consequences; not using steroids can lead to permanent lung damage.
patients should talk to their doctor about ways to prevent adrenal insufficiency during withdrawal, particularly during stressful times when the risk increases.
it may still be used in some circumstances, such as for treating nocturnal asthma.
[for help quitting, see in-depth report #41: smoking.]
short-acting beta2-agonists albuterol proventil, ventolin, accuneb  inhaler, nebulizer levalbuterol xopenex nebulizer
if measurement results fail to show airway obstruction, but asthma is  still suspected, the doctor may perform achallenge test.
in the hyperreactive response, smooth muscles in the airways of the lungs constrict and narrow excessively in response to inhaled allergens or other irritants.
the standard device for administering any asthma medication is the metered-dose inhaler (mdi).
asthma action plans create a written document for patients to manage asthma during stable times and to more easily identify when asthma is worsening.
managing asthma in primary care: putting new guideline recommendations into context.
these so-called inflammatory factors cause the airways to swell, to fill  with fluid, and to produce a thick sticky mucus.
(the spacer is a tube that is attached to the inhaler.
probiotics are beneficial microbes that some believe may help protect against allergies and asthma.
people with asthma who  already have pets and are not allergic to them probably have a low risk for  developing such allergies later on.
in addition, mdis can continue to deliver propellant even after the drug has been used up.
everyone should quit smoking and encourage others around them to quit.
doctors may always adjust these recommendations  based on a specific patient.
chest tightness introduction the word asthma originates from an ancient greek word meaning  panting.
this  involves administering a specific drug (histamine or methacholine) that usually  increases airway resistance only when asthma is present.
patient education, environmental control measures, and management of any other  conditions are also needed.
patients should consult their doctors before starting any exercise program, however.
in about 5% of cases, aspirin is responsible  for a syndrome that involves multiple attacks of asthma, sinusitis, and nasal  congestion.
occasionally, the airways  have become seriously obstructed by the time the patient calls the doctor.
peak expiratory flow rate (pefr), commonly called the peak flow rate, the  maximum flow rate that can be generated during a forced exhalation.
preliminary reports suggest that the  benefits are long lasting with minimal delayed adverse effects.
respiratory viral and bacterial infections play a role in some cases of adult-onset asthma.
depending on the results, the doctor will take the following steps: the patient may receive skin or blood allergy tests, particularly if a specific allergen is suspected and available for testing.
do not, however, stop taking this drug or other asthma medications without first talking with your doctor.
people who self-manage their asthma with peak air flow measurements and adjust their medications as needed have fewer hospitalizations and unplanned doctors' visits, and, generally, have a better quality of life than those who rely only on the occasional doctor or emergency room visit to control symptoms.
relaxation and stress-reduction techniques.
when people inhale, the air travels through the following structures: air passes into the lungs and flows through progressively smaller airways  calledbronchi and then bronchioles.
important irritants involved in asthma include cigarette smoke, indoor chemicals, and air pollution.
patients with severe seasonal allergies may need to start medications a few weeks before the pollen season, and to continue medicine until the season is over.
asthma that is not properly controlled can  interfere with school and work, as well as with daily activities.
studies report a strong association between obesity and asthma.
airways in everyone's lungs respond by constricting when exposed to  allergens or irritants but there are major differences in the hyperreactive  response that occurs in people with asthma: when people without asthma breathe in and out deeply, the airways  relax and open to rid the lungs of the irritant.
the allergic response (allergens) nearly half of adults with asthma have an allergy-related condition, which,  in most cases developed first in childhood.
spirometry is a painless study of air volume and flow rate  within the lungs.
patients can develop anaphylaxis after any dose of omalizumab, even if they had no reaction to a first dose.
key points regarding recommendations for adults include: inhaled corticosteroids are the preferred long-term control therapy.
about 1 in 1,000 patients who take omalizumab develop anaphylaxis (a life-threatening allergic reaction)
six specific components of severity are used to classify patients.
they relieve the symptoms of acute attacks, but they do not control the underlying inflammation.
people with asthma should try to minimize their risk for respiratory tract infections.
aspirin-induced asthma (aia) is a  condition in which asthma gets worse after taking aspirin or other nonsteroidal  anti-inflammatory drugs (nsaids).
the laba-only versions of these drugs are salmeterol (serevent diskus) and formoterol (foradil aerolizer).
patients with asthma and chronic allergic rhinitis may need to take medications daily.
(the inflammation itself must still be treated, however, because it usually causes relapse.)
ethnicity and genetics, however, are less likely to play a role in these differences than socioeconomic differences, such as having less access to optimal health care, and greater likelihood of living in an urban area (another asthma risk factor).
pollen, from plants.
nocturnal asthma asthma occurs primarily at night (nocturnal asthma) in as many as 75% of  patients with asthma.
important components of a home program include: managing asthma exacerbations.
in about 10% of severe persistent cases, changes in the structure of the  walls of the airways lead to progressive and irreversible problems in lung  function, even in aggressively treated patients.
nighttime  attacks may indicate poor asthma control.
dry-powder may cause tooth erosion, and children are advised to rinse their mouths out right after using a dpi and to brush twice a day with a fluoride toothpaste.
breathing exercises may help improve patients’ quality of life even if they do not have a major impact on medication reduction.
treatment of allergies and sinusitis can help control asthma.
any occupational or long-term exposure to chemicals.
shortness of breath is a major  source of distress in patients with asthma.
it is important to avoid and control triggers that lead to asthma attacks.
just like a drug, herbs and supplements can affect the body's chemistry, and therefore have the potential to produce side effects that may be harmful.
in people with allergies, the immune system overreacts to exposure to  allergens.
acupuncture, hypnosis and biofeedback are all alternative ways to control pain.
click the icon  to see an illustrated series detailing metered dose inhaler use.
bronchial thermoplasty is an outpatient procedure that was fda-approved in 2010 but is reserved for select adult patients whose severe and persistent asthma has not been helped by inhaled corticosteroids and long-acting beta agonist medications.
click the icon to see an  image of a peak flow meter.
such changes appear to be two specific responses: these actions in the airway cause coughing, wheezing, and shortness of breath (dyspnea), the classic symptoms of asthma.
allergy skin tests may help diagnose allergic asthma, although they are not recommended for people with year-round asthma.
humidity levels should not exceed 30 - 50%: gas stoves, kerosene, and cooking.
patients should track their medicine and throw the device away when the last dose has been administered.
pulmonary function tests if symptoms and a patient's history suggest asthma, the doctor will usually  performpulmonary function tests to confirm the diagnosis and determine  the severity of the disease.
overdose can be serious and in rare cases even life threatening, particularly in patients with heart disease.
[for more information,  seein-depth report #85: heartburn and gastroesophageal reflux disease.] aspirin-induced asthma.
the exact cause of asthma is unknown.
a high efficiency particle arresting (hepa) filter can remove the majority of harmful particles, including mold spores, dust, dust mites, pet dander and other irritating allergens from the air.
the naepp notes that while it is not clear if oral corticosteroids are safe for pregnant women, uncontrolled asthma poses an even greater risk for a woman and her fetus.
chest tightness or pain.
since the introduction of inhaled corticosteroids and long-acting beta2-agonists, theophylline is not used as often for asthma treatment.
after exposure to asthma triggers, symptoms rarely develop abruptly but progress over a period of hours or days.
while bronchial thermoplasty may help reduce the  number of severe asthma attacks over the long term, the procedure carries a  number of risks including the possibility of asthma attacks during the course  of treatment.
click the icon to see an image of a holding chamber.
they are used alone only for patients with mild and intermittent asthma.
treating gerd does not appear to improve asthma control.
allergic asthma is triggered by inhaling certain substances  (allergens) such as: dust mites, specifically mite feces, which are coated with enzymes that  contain a powerful allergen.
these are the signs of well-controlled asthma: asthma symptoms occur twice a week or less rescue bronchodilator medication is used twice a week or less symptoms do not cause nighttime or early morning awakening symptoms do not limit work, school, or exercise activities peak flow meter readings are normal or the patient’s personal best both the doctor and the patient consider the asthma to be well controlled steps for treating asthma a stepwise approach is recommended for treating asthma.
loss of effectiveness and overdose.
exercise-induced asthma exercise-induced asthma (eia) is a limited form of asthma in which exercise  triggers coughing, wheezing, or shortness of breath.
the procedure uses radiofrequency energy to heat lung tissue and reduce the thickness of smooth muscle in the airways so that patients can breathe better.
theophylline is available in tablet, liquid, and injectable forms.
attacks often occur between 2 and 4 a.m.
death from asthma is a relatively uncommon event, and most asthma deaths are preventable.
the following are some suggestions for reducing its impact: medications.
trends in asthma morbidity and mortality .
cockroach dust is a major asthma trigger and may reduce lung  function even in people without a history of asthma.
asthma occurs primarily at night (nocturnal asthma) in as many as 75% of patients with asthma.
long-term outlook generally depends on severity: in mild-to-moderate cases, asthma can improve over time, and many adults  even become symptom free.
about 22 million americans have asthma.
kerosene (used in space heaters and lamps) may also produce allergic reactions.
ann allergy asthma immunol.
[for more information, seein-depth report #94: colds and influenza.]
[for more information, seein-depth  report #53: weight control and diet.] other risk factors gerd.
in a hospital setting, or when a  patient cannot use an inhaler, a nebulizer may be used.
meta-analysis: effect of long-acting beta-agonists on severe asthma exacerbations and asthma-related deaths.
brozek jl, bousquet j, baena-cagnani ce, bonini s, canonica gw, casale tb, et al.
after an initial acute attack, inflammation lasts for days to  weeks, often without symptoms.
treatment of asthma during pregnancy guidelines from the national asthma education and prevention program  (naepp) emphasize that most asthma medications are safe for pregnant women.
asthma is most likely caused by a  combination of genetic (inherited) factors and environmental triggers (such as  allergens and infections).
risk factors about 22 million americans have asthma.
and,  during an asthma attack the airways narrow, making breathing difficult.
avoiding or managing environmental triggers is always important.
when people inhale, the air travels through the following structures: asthma is a chronic condition in which these airways undergo changes when stimulated by allergens or other environmental triggers.
dry-powder may cause tooth erosion, and children are advised to rinse their  mouths out right after using a dpi and to brush twice a day with a fluoride  toothpaste.
respiratory infections, including the common cold, can interact with allergies to worsen asthma.
cats harbor significant allergens, which can even be  carried on clothing; dogs usually cause fewer problems.
omalizumab should always be injected in a doctor's office, and health care providers should observe patients for at least 2 hours after an injection.
nih publications 08-4051.
the naepp notes that while it is not clear if  oral corticosteroids are safe for pregnant women, uncontrolled asthma poses an  even greater risk for a woman and her fetus.
the lungs contain millions  of these airways.
[for more information, see in-depth reports #77: allergic rhinitis , #5:asthma in children and adolescents, and #62: sinusitis.]
smooth  muscles in the airways of people with asthma may have a defect, perhaps a  deficiency in a critical chemical that prevents the muscles from relaxing.
inhaled corticosteroids are recommended as the primary therapy for any patient needing long-term control medications for persistent asthma.
it is a particularly severe asthmatic condition, associated with many asthma-related hospitalizations.
shortness of breath (dyspnea).
in people with allergies, the immune system overreacts to exposure to allergens.
they may, however, have some benefits: common oral corticosteroids include prednisone, prednisolone, methylprednisolone, and hydrocortisone.
for adults and children over age 5 with  moderate-to-severe persistent asthma, doctors recommend inhaled  corticosteroids, which are sometimes used along with long-acting beta2-agonists  when corticosteroids alone fail to control the disease.
asthma is a disease in which inflammation of the airways causes airflow into and out of the lungs to be restricted.
inflammatory response the hyperreactive stage is followed by the inflammatory response,  which generally contributes to asthma in the following way: in response to allergens or other environmental triggers, the immune  system delivers white blood cells and other immune factors to the airways.
immunotherapy ("allergy shots") may help reduce asthma symptoms, and the use of asthma medications, in patients with known allergies.
if the airways are obstructed, these measurements will fall.
immunotherapy poses some risk for severe allergic reactions, however, especially for children with poorly controlled asthma.
patients with severe asthma should take pefr readings two or three times a  day.
even exposure to secondhand smoke can double the risk of asthma-related emergency room visits.
swimming is excellent for people with asthma.
inflammation appears to be present in the lungs of all patients with  asthma, even those with mild cases, and plays a key role in all forms of the  disease.
allergy tests the patient may receive skin or blood allergy tests, particularly if a  specific allergen is suspected and available for testing.
2008 dec;101(6):570-9.
it is very rare for a person who is receiving proper treatment  to die of asthma.
bedding, curtains, and bedroom environment.
allergic rhinitis and its impact on asthma (aria) guidelines: 2010 revision.
national asthma education and prevention program expert panel report: guidelines for the diagnosis and management of asthma update on selected topics -- 2002.
mdi-delivered drugs must be used regularly as prescribed and the patient carefully trained in their use in order for them to be effective and safe.
these medications are taken on a regular basis to prevent asthma attacks and control chronic symptoms.
even in some severe cases, adults may experience improvement depending on  the degree of obstruction in the lungs and the timeliness and effectiveness of  treatment.
inhaled corticosteroids should be used for persistent asthma.
eia is triggered only by exercise and is distinct from ordinary allergic asthma in that it does not produce a long duration of airway activity, as allergic asthma does.
intermittent, mild persistent, moderate persistent, and severe persistent.
nighttime attacks may indicate poor asthma control.
some patients find this cough even more distressing than wheezing or  sleep disturbances.
mar 5;360(10):1002-14.
the alveoli are the microscopic sacs lined by tiny blood vessels that take in  oxygen and give up carbon dioxide.
for severe asthma, oral  corticosteroids may be necessary.
a cromolyn nasal spray called nasalcrom has been approved for over-the-counter purchase, but only to relieve nasal congestion caused by allergies.
short-acting beta2-agonists become less effective when taken regularly over time, which increases the risk for overuse.
emergency treatment of asthma.
panic disorder can coincide with asthma or be confused with it.
monitoring people who self-manage their asthma with peak air flow measurements and  adjust their medications as needed have fewer hospitalizations and unplanned  doctors' visits, and, generally, have a better quality of life than those who  rely only on the occasional doctor or emergency room visit to control symptoms.
click the  icon to see an image of a normal bronchiole versus an asthmatic bronchiole.
airways in everyone's lungs respond by constricting when exposed to allergens or irritants but there are major differences in the hyperreactive response that occurs in people with asthma: the hyperreactive stage is followed by the inflammatory response, which generally contributes to asthma in the following way: inflammation appears to be present in the lungs of all patients with asthma, even those with mild cases, and plays a key role in all forms of the disease.
medications for treatment and prevention of asthma medication purpose drug class generic name brand names administration quick-relief (rescue) medications (control acute attacks)
exterminating pests (cockroaches and mice).
the two  basic inhaler devices are the metered-dose inhaler (mdi) and dry powder  inhalers (dpis).
omalizumab is given by injection every 2 - 4 weeks.
patients with aspirin-induced asthma (aia) should avoid aspirin  and other nsaids, including ibuprofen (advil and other brands, generic) and  naproxen (aleve, generic).
this combination results in wheezing, breathlessness, an inability to  exhale properly, and a phlegm-producing cough.
hormonal fluctuations or changes in hormone levels may play a role in the severity of asthma in women.
apr 30;360(18):1862-9.
some patients report benefits from many stress reduction techniques, such as acupuncture, hypnosis, breathing relaxation techniques, massage therapy, and meditation practices.
breathing exercises.
when people with asthma try to take those same deep breaths, their  airways do not relax and narrow, causing patients to pant for breath.
infections respiratory viral and bacterial infections play a role in some cases of  adult-onset asthma.
symptoms asthma symptoms vary in severity from occasional mild bouts of  breathlessness to daily wheezing that lasts even when a patient takes large  doses of medication.
side effects and complications.
long-term outlook generally depends on severity: lung function declines faster than average in people with asthma, particularly in those who smoke and in those with excessive mucus production (an indicator of poor treatment control).
such patients also often have polyps (small benign growths) in the nasal passages.
[for more information, seein-depth report #85: heartburn and gastroesophageal reflux disease.] aspirin-induced asthma.
there have been a number of reported cases of serious and even lethal side effects from herbal products.
it is not entirely clear which condition causes the other or whether they are both due to common factors.
cigarette smoke can accelerate the decline in lung function related to asthma.
essentially, asthma is an inflammatory lung condition that makes it  difficult to breathe properly.
gibson pg, mcdonald vm, marks gb.
death from asthma is a relatively uncommon event, and most asthma deaths  are preventable.
in some severe cases, they may be used as maintenance therapy.
always check with your doctor before using any herbal remedies or dietary supplements.
with an epi-pen, or similar auto-injector device, patients can quickly give themselves a life-saving dose of epinephrine.
devices used for administering inhaled drugs most asthma drugs are taken with inhalers.
people who have only eia do not need long-term maintenance therapy.
hormonal fluctuations or changes in hormone levels may play a role in the  severity of asthma in women.
it is used only to treat patients who have moderate-to-severe persistent asthma related to allergies whose symptoms are not controlled by inhaled corticosteroids.
the spacer helps improve medication delivery by allowing the patient additional time to inhale.
in one study, nearly half of asthma or allergy sufferers resorted to alternative treatments.
african-americans have higher rates of asthma than caucasians or other ethnic groups.
the classic symptoms of an asthma attack include: wheezing when breathing out is nearly always present during an attack.
prognosis asthma is usually chronic, although it occasionally goes into long periods  of remission.
use of the muscles at the base of the neck and between the ribs may be  more exaggerated than normal.
in fact, vacuuming stirs up both mites and cat allergens.
any family history of asthma or allergic disorders, such as eczema, hives,  or hay fever.
regular exercise and vitamin and mineral supplements can reduce and even reverse loss of bone density.
patients should also carry emergency self-treatment for anaphylaxis (such as an epi-pen) and know how to use it.
there have been very few well-conducted studies supporting their use, however.
2010 sep;126(3):466-76.
it is important to use the meter at the same times each day and to stand  or sit in the same position to keep an accurate record.
2011 mar;139(3):674-81.
more experience is needed to evaluate long-term risks and benefits of this invasive treatment.
doctors recommend that patients with even mild asthma monitor their own conditions.
asthma tends to run in families, so children whose  parents have asthma are more likely to develop it themselves.
asthma is no reason to avoid exercise.
based on a  patient’s age and asthma severity, there are specific recommendations  regarding whether to use long-term control medications and which ones to use.
occasionally, the airways have become seriously obstructed by the time the patient calls the doctor.
this device, particularly when used with a spacer, allows precise doses to be delivered directly to the lungs.
patients whose persistent asthma does not respond to standard dosages of  inhaled corticosteroids may need a higher dosage or the addition of a  long-acting beta-agonist to their drug regimen.
long-acting beta2-agonists and leukotriene antagonists are additional therapies  usually used in addition to inhaled corticosteroids.
nearly half of adults with asthma have an allergy-related condition, which, in most cases developed first in childhood.
if symptoms and a patient's history suggest asthma, the doctor will usually performpulmonary function tests to confirm the diagnosis and determine the severity of the disease.
wheezing is a whistling sound caused by narrowed airways.
using a spirometer, an instrument that measures the air taken into and  exhaled from the lungs, the doctor will determine several values: vital capacity (vc), the maximum volume of air that can be inhaled or  exhaled.
if possible, avoid carpets and rugs.
2010 aug 19;363(8):755-64.
it is very difficult to  predict when an attack will become very serious.
theophylline relaxes the muscles around the bronchioles and also stimulates breathing.
initial chest tightness without any other  symptoms may be an early indicator of a serious attack.
osteoporosis is a condition characterized by progressive loss of bone density, thinning of bone tissue, and increased vulnerability to fractures.
people  who have only eia do not need long-term maintenance therapy.
the procedure uses radiofrequency energy to heat lung  tissue and reduce the thickness of smooth muscle in the airways so that  patients can breathe better.
side effects of all beta2-agonists include: beta2-agonists have serious interactions with certain other drugs, such as beta-blockers, and patients should tell the doctor about any other medications they are taking.
exercise-induced asthma (eia) is a limited form of asthma in which exercise triggers coughing, wheezing, or shortness of breath.
medications and dosages are increased when needed, and decreased when possible.
allergen immunotherapy: a practice parameter third update.
no one should stop taking any steroids without consulting a doctor first.
still, it may be difficult to distinguish among these disorders in some adults  with late onset asthma.
inhaled steroids are generally considered safe and effective and only rarely cause any of the more serious side effects reported with prolonged use of oral steroids.
yoga, which uses stretching, breathing, and meditation techniques, may have particular benefits.
other drugs used in special cases include  corticosteroids taken by mouth and anticholinergic drugs.
side effects of cromolyn include nasal congestion, coughing, sneezing, wheezing, nausea, nosebleeds, and dry throat.
others  may exhale too forcefully before inhalation.
it serves as a  holding chamber for the medication that is sprayed by the inhaler.)
using a spirometer, an instrument that measures the air taken into and exhaled from the lungs, the doctor will determine several values: if the airways are obstructed, these measurements will fall.
others may exhale too forcefully before inhalation.
medications for asthma fall into two categories: rescue (quick-relief) medication.
it is very rare for a person who is receiving proper treatment to die of asthma.
probiotics for the treatment of allergic rhinitis and asthma: systematic review of randomized controlled trials.
eia is triggered only by exercise and is distinct from ordinary allergic  asthma in that it does not produce a long duration of airway activity, as  allergic asthma does.
rapid heart rate sweating the end of an attack is often marked by a cough that produces thick,  stringy mucus.
[for more information, seein-depth report #53: weight control and diet.] gerd.
some patients hold the mdi too close to their mouths, or even inside them.
for  mild-to-moderate asthma, a single determination each morning usually suffices,  but patients should check with their doctors.
medications for asthma fall into two categories: patients can greatly reduce the frequency and severity of asthma attacks by understanding the difference between coping with asthma attacks and controlling the disease over time.
asthma guidelines the u.s. national asthma education and prevention program (naepp) guidelines for the diagnosis and management of asthma recommend: asthma symptoms symptoms of asthma include: the word asthma originates from an ancient greek word meaning panting.
american lung association.
such patients also often have polyps (small benign growths) in the  nasal passages.
doctors should consider discontinuing the drug if patients exhibit any of these symptoms.
these drugs should never be used alone in the treatment of asthma in adults or children.
all bronchioles lead to alveoli, which are microscopic sacs where  oxygen is taken in and carbon dioxide is expelled.
intermittent, mild  persistent, moderate persistent, and severe persistent.
the two basic inhaler devices are the metered-dose inhaler (mdi) and dry powder inhalers (dpis).
doctors are still trying to determine when long-acting beta2-agonists should be added to an asthma treatment plan.
asthma is a chronic condition in which these airways undergo changes when  stimulated by allergens or other environmental triggers.
patients with obvious symptoms of reflux (heartburn) may consider the following lifestyle changes: women who suspect that menstrual-related changes may influence asthma severity should keep a diary of their menstrual dates and times of asthma attacks.
to date, however, evidence does not support any value from most alternative therapies, including high-dose vitamins, urine injections, homeopathic remedies, and most herbal remedies.
the measurements are taken again.
in some people, the first (or only) symptom of asthma is a dry  cough.
dry powder inhalers (dpis) deliver a powdered form of beta2-agonists or corticosteroids directly into the lungs.
however, evidence to date does not support efficacy in preventing or treating asthma.
leukotriene antagonists include montelukast (singulair), zafirlukast (accolate) and zileuton (zyflo).
formoterol formoterol / budesonide foradil aerolizer symbicortinhaler salmeterol salmeterol / fluticasone serevent advairinhaler these medications quickly control acute asthma attacks.
vliagoftis h, kouranos vd, betsi gi, falagas me.
symptoms are generally most intense about 10 minutes after exercising  and then gradually resolve.
if pets trigger asthma, take the following precautions: controlling for dust.
a nebulizer is a device that administers the drug in a fine spray that the patient breathes in.
the classic symptoms of an asthma attack include: the end of an attack is often marked by a cough that produces thick, stringy mucus.
lung function declines faster than average in people with asthma,  particularly in those who smoke and in those with excessive mucus production  (an indicator of poor treatment control).
the following signs and symptoms may indicate a life-threatening situation: asthma often progresses very slowly, but it may sometimes develop to a fatal or near-fatal attack within a few minutes.
hints for reducing exercise induced asthma (eia).
omalizumab (xolair) is fda-approved for patients age 12 and older who have moderate-to-severe persistent asthma related to allergies.
air cleaners, filters for air conditioners, and vacuum cleaners with high efficiency particle arresting (hepa) filters can help remove particles and small allergens found indoors.
this drug is used in asthma to open the air  passages.
unfortunately, many patients do not understand the difference between medications that provide rapid short-term relief and those that are used for long-term symptom control.
the overuse of bronchodilators can have serious consequences; not using steroids can lead to permanent lung damage.
if symptoms improve  on weekends and vacation and are worse at work, the job may be the likely  source of the asthma.
patients who already have pets and are not allergic to them probably have a low risk for developing allergies.
reducing humidity in the house.
asthma tends to run in families, so children whose parents have asthma are more likely to develop it themselves.
aspirin-induced asthma (aia) is a condition in which asthma gets worse after taking aspirin or other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (nsaids).
environmental factors (irritants) an asthma attack can also be induced or aggravated by direct irritants to  the lungs.
more experience is needed to evaluate long-term risks and  benefits of this invasive treatment.
they are  only useful for treating symptoms.
even smoky cooking can worsen asthma.
gas ovens release nitrogen dioxide, a substance that can aggravate asthma symptoms.
cox g. bronchial thermoplasty for severe asthma.
as with other anti-inflammatory drugs, leukotrienes are used for prevention, not for treating acute asthma attacks.
national heart, lung, and blood institute, us dept of health and human services; 2007.
in choosing therapy, doctors must also consider the risk an individual patient has for more severe exacerbations.
along with other methods to reduce allergens, such as frequent dusting, the use of a hepa filtration system can help control the amount of allergens circulating in the air.
national heart, lung, and blood institute, us dept of health and human services; 2003.
they should also record attacks, exposure to any allergens or triggers,  and medications taken.
(in patients who first develop asthma during adulthood, the allergic response usually does not play a strong causal role.)
salpeter sr, buckley ns, ormiston tm, salpeter ee.
sep 4;376(9743):803-13.
other potential uses include preventing exercise-induced asthma.
electric stoves and ovens are healthier than gas ones for people with asthma.
patients with asthma should get an annual flu vaccine, and they should receive the vaccination against pneumococcal pneumonia at least once.
ruling out other diseases a number of disorders may cause some or all of the symptoms of asthma: asthma and chronic obstructive lung diseases (chronic bronchitis and  emphysema) affect the lungs in similar ways and, in fact, may all be present in  the same person.
doctors may always adjust these recommendations based on a specific patient.
forced expiratory volume (fev1), the maximum volume of air expired in one  second.
for severe asthma, oral corticosteroids may be necessary.
asthma is most likely caused by a combination of genetic (inherited) factors and environmental triggers (such as allergens and infections).
evidence also suggests that people who are overweight (body mass index greater than 25) have more difficulty getting their asthma under control.
depending on  the results, the doctor will take the following steps: if measurements fall, the doctor typically asks the patient to inhale a  bronchodilator medication.
neither is highly beneficial for acute asthma attacks.
treatment approaches generally include: follow-up generally depends on the severity of asthma, how recently asthma was diagnosed, patient compliance, and whether recent changes in treatment were made.
spray furniture polish is very effective for reducing both dust and allergens.
this condition generally occurs in children and young adults, most often during intense exercise in cold dry air.
hepa filters can be found in most air purifiers, which are usually small and portable.
asthma often progresses very slowly, but it may sometimes develop to a  fatal or near-fatal attack within a few minutes.
national asthma education and prevention program expert panel report 3: guidelines for the diagnosis and management of asthma.
probiotics can be obtained in active yogurt cultures and supplements, which are being studied for protection.
these drugs are usually short-acting beta-adrenergic  agonists (beta2-agonists).
preliminary reports suggest that the benefits are long lasting with minimal delayed adverse effects.
acupuncture involves the insertion of tiny sterile needles, slightly thicker than a human hair, at specific points on the body.
however, some patients may not feel as short of breath or uncomfortable as  would be expected from measurements of their lung function or oxygen levels.
symptoms are generally most intense about 10 minutes after exercising and then gradually resolve.
dust mites thrive in humidity and damp houses increase the risk for mold.
corticosteroids, also called glucocorticoids or steroids, are powerful anti-inflammatory drugs.
essentially, asthma is an inflammatory lung condition that makes it difficult to breathe properly.
medications and  dosages are increased when needed, and decreased when possible.
sindi a, todd dc, nair p. antiinflammatory effects of long-acting beta2-agonists in patients with asthma: a systematic review and metaanalysis.
many patients with moderate or severe asthma overuse their short-term bronchodilator medications and underuse their long-term corticosteroid medications.
they are generally used for asthma flareups that do not respond to inhaler medications.
specific short-acting beta2-agonists include: short-acting bronchodilators are generally administered through inhalation and are effective for 3 - 6 hours.
osteoporosis (bone thinning) is a common and particularly severe long-term side effect of prolonged steroid use.
2009 jul;136(1):145-54.
(however, some people have both forms of asthma.)
patients should not use it for self-medication without the advice of a doctor.
patient education, environmental control measures, and management of any other conditions are also needed.
labas should be used for the shortest time possible, and should only be used by patients whose asthma is not adequately controlled by asthma controller medications.
omalizumab is a biologic drug that targets and blocks the antibody immunoglobulin e (ige), a chemical trigger of the inflammatory events associated with an allergic asthma attack.
while medications play an essential role in the management of asthma, appropriate management of asthma involves much more: the severity of asthma is classified into four groups:
however, even when it is not life threatening, asthma can be debilitating and frightening.
it is very difficult to predict when an attack will become very serious.
however, even when it is not life threatening, asthma can be  debilitating and frightening.
taking a corticosteroid drug through an inhaler makes it possible to provide effective local anti-inflammatory activity in the lungs with very few side effects elsewhere in the body.
osteoporosis may result from disease, dietary or hormonal deficiency or advanced age.
asthma that is not properly controlled can interfere with school and work, as well as with daily activities.
long-term control (maintenance) medication.
they may also help prevent the development of asthma in children with allergies.
american lung association epidemiology & statistics unit research and program services.
between 30 - 40% of women with asthma experience fluctuations in severity that are associated with their menstrual cycle.
(in patients who first develop  asthma during adulthood, the allergic response usually does not play a strong  causal role.)
in about 5% of cases, aspirin is responsible for a syndrome that involves multiple attacks of asthma, sinusitis, and nasal congestion.
unfortunately, many patients do not understand the  difference between medications that provide rapid short-term relief and those  that are used for long-term symptom control.
eia occurs only after exercise and is more likely to happen during regular paced activities in cold, dry air.
it is very important to  control the damaging inflammatory response associated with asthma and not  simply treat symptoms.
some  patients hold the mdi too close to their mouths, or even inside them.
some patients find that they are easier to manage than mdis.
nih publications 02-5074.
symptoms of a life-threatening attack the following signs and symptoms may indicate a life-threatening situation: as the chest labors to bring enough air into the lungs, breathing often  becomes shallow.
schatz m, dombrowski mp.
it is not entirely clear which  condition causes the other or whether they are both due to common factors.
key points regarding recommendations for adults include: most asthma drugs are taken with inhalers.
if the doctor orders steroids withdrawn, regular follow-up monitoring is necessary.
adverse effects of prolonged use of oral steroids include cataracts, glaucoma, osteoporosis, diabetes, fluid retention, susceptibility to infections, weight gain, hypertension, capillary fragility, acne, excess hair growth, wasting of the muscles, menstrual irregularities, irritability, insomnia, and psychosis.
two inhaled drugs, ipratropium bromide (atrovent) and tiotropium (spiriva) act as bronchodilators over time.
children, adolescents, and adults with asthma are widely using alternative therapies.
other diseases that must be considered during diagnosis are pneumonia,  bronchitis, severe allergic reactions, pulmonary embolism, cancer, heart  failure, tumors, psychosomatic illnesses, and certain rare disorders.
steroids are not bronchodilators (they do not relax the airways) and have little short-term effect on symptoms.
2009 aug;84(8):707-17.review date: 5/3/2011
no adverse effects on the liver have been reported to date with montelukast.
six specific components  of severity are used to classify patients.
lacking enough oxygen, the skin becomes bluish.
metered-dose inhaler.
usually, the dosage starts out higher and is then gradually reduced over a 5 - 7 day period.
avoiding outdoor allergens.
a nebulizer is a device  that administers the drug in a fine spray that the patient breathes in.
humidity or extreme  temperatures can affect the performance of these inhalers, so they should not  be stored in humid places (bathroom cabinets) or locations subject to high  temperatures (glove compartments during summer months.
they can also help prevent asthma attacks from occurring.
beta2-agonists do not reduce inflammation or airway responsiveness but serve asbronchodilators, relaxing and opening constricted airways during an acute asthma attack.
after an initial acute attack, inflammation lasts for days to weeks, often without symptoms.
it is a particularly severe asthmatic condition, associated with many  asthma-related hospitalizations.
these are the primary allergens in the home.
medications that open the airways  (bronchodilators, or inhalers) are used to quickly relieve any moderate or  severe asthma attack.
between 30 - 40% of women with asthma experience  fluctuations in severity that are associated with their menstrual cycle.
breathing may be shallower and more  rapid.
dry powder inhalers (dpis) deliver a powdered  form of beta2-agonists or corticosteroids directly into the lungs.
the major  features of the lungs include the bronchi, the bronchioles, and the alveoli.
in a hospital setting, or when a patient cannot use an inhaler, a nebulizer may be used.
in the hyperreactive response, smooth muscles in the airways of the lungs  constrict and narrow excessively in response to inhaled allergens or other  irritants.
at least half of patients with asthma have gastroesophageal  reflux disease (gerd), the cause of heartburn.
the patient may begin to lose consciousness.
if your symptoms do not improve or if symptoms worsen with this type of drug, your doctor will recommend discontinuing it.
when asthma is suspected, the patient should describe for the doctor any pattern related to the symptoms, and possible precipitating factors, including: a number of disorders may cause some or all of the symptoms of asthma:
the guidelines recommend that pregnant women with asthma have albuterol available at all times.
based on a patient’s age and asthma severity, there are specific recommendations regarding whether to use long-term control medications and which ones to use.
washing hands is a very simple but effective preventive measure.
after about 2 months, patients and doctors can use the recorded data for  administering medications effectively and to recognize problems before they  become serious.
moreover, the drugs are not approved specifically for asthma.
causes the exact cause of asthma is unknown.
j allergy clin immunol.
the spacer helps improve medication delivery by allowing the patient  additional time to inhale.
many patients with moderate or  severe asthma overuse their short-term bronchodilator medications and underuse  their long-term corticosteroid medications.
the standard device for administering any  asthma medication is the metered-dose inhaler (mdi).
after exposure to asthma triggers, symptoms rarely develop  abruptly but progress over a period of hours or days.
patients who take a leukotriene antagonist drug should be monitored for signs of behavioral and mood changes.
patients should be reevaluated within 2 - 6 weeks of starting therapy to assess response.
the use of inhaled corticosteroids in patients with moderate-to-severe asthma reduces the risk of rehospitalization and death from asthma.
in addition, mdis can continue to deliver propellant  even after the drug has been used up.
dry powder inhalers.
the  guidelines recommend that pregnant women with asthma have albuterol available  at all times.
(by contrast, steroids taken by mouth have considerable side effects throughout the body.)
salmeterol-fluticasone (advair), formoterol-budesonide (symbicort), and formoterol-mometasone (dulera) are long-acting beta2 agonists products combined with a steroid in a single inhaler that are used for treatment of moderate-to-severe asthma.
factors that may contribute to this include parental history of asthma, atopic dermatitis, and known sensitivity to different allergens or foods.
aia often develops after a viral infection.
cox l, nelson h, lockey r, calabria c, chacko t, finegold i, et al.
they very effectively reduce inflammation.
zafirlukast may cause liver injury when taken at higher than standard doses.
anaphylaxis symptoms include: the fda is currently reviewing whether omalizumab may be associated with increased risk for heart and vascular problems (ischemic heart disease, arrhythmias, cardiomyopathy, heart failure, pulmonary hypertension, and blood clots).
patients should keep an ongoing record of their peak flow readings to help  them detect worsening of their condition.
weight loss in anyone  who is obese and has asthma or shortness of breath helps reduce airway  obstruction and improve lung function.
the overall goal should be to achieve less than a 20% (and ideally only  10%) variation in readings between evening and morning rates.
labas should only be used in combination with an asthma controller medication, such as an inhaled corticosteroid.
these drugs are considered an alternative for long-term control of asthma, but inhaled corticosteroids should always be used first.
in both children and adults with existing allergic asthma, an upper respiratory tract infection often worsens an attack.
they can be dangerous when used alone, because they can mask asthma symptoms, and they can increase the risk of asthma death unless paired with an inhaled steroid.
mdi-delivered drugs must be used regularly as prescribed and the patient  carefully trained in their use in order for them to be effective and safe.
in adults, women are more likely to report severe  symptoms than men.
it serves as a holding chamber for the medication that is sprayed by the inhaler.)
side effects of beta2-agonists.
outdoor air pollutants and patient health.
before puberty, asthma occurs more often in males, but after adolescence, it is more common in females.
if the measurements are more  normal, the drug likely has cleared the airways and a diagnosis of asthma is  likely.
while bronchial thermoplasty may help reduce the number of severe asthma attacks over the long term, the procedure carries a number of risks including the possibility of asthma attacks during the course of treatment.
avoiding cigarette smoke.
gender before puberty, asthma occurs more often in males, but after adolescence,  it is more common in females.
instead, they work over time to reduce inflammation and prevent permanent injury in the lungs.
cromolyn sodium (intal) is both an anti-inflammatory drug and has antihistamine properties that block asthma triggers, such as allergens, cold, or exercise.
if asthma continues to worsen with the use of these drugs, patients should discuss corticosteroids or other drugs to treat underlying inflammation.
patients with aspirin-induced asthma (aia) should avoid aspirin and other nsaids, including ibuprofen (advil and other brands, generic) and naproxen (aleve, generic).
beta2-agonists and  anticholinergics do not have any effect on the disease process itself.
evidence  also suggests that people who are overweight (body mass index greater than 25)  have more difficulty getting their asthma under control.
click the icon to see an image of  allergy testing.
humidity or extreme temperatures can affect the performance of these inhalers, so they should not be stored in humid places (bathroom cabinets) or locations subject to high temperatures (glove compartments during summer months.
these patients are at particular risk for very serious and even  life-threatening asthma attacks, as they may be less likely to seek care when  their oxygen levels are dangerously low coughing.
factors that may contribute to this  include parental history of asthma, atopic dermatitis, and known sensitivity to  different allergens or foods.
patients should be reevaluated within 2 - 6 weeks  of starting therapy to assess response.
when an asthma attack occurs, mucus production is increased, muscles of the bronchial tree become tight, and the lining of the air passages swells, reducing airflow and producing the characteristic wheezing sound.
this device, particularly  when used with a spacer, allows precise doses to be delivered directly to the  lungs.
these mood problems include agitation, aggression, anxiousness, dream abnormalities, hallucinations, depression, insomnia, irritability, restlessness, tremor, and suicidal thinking and behavior.
some  women first develop asthma during or shortly after pregnancy, while others  first develop it around the time of menopause (perimenopause).
manufacturers of herbal remedies and dietary supplements do not need fda approval to sell their products.
theophylline should not be used by people with peptic ulcers, and should be used with caution by anyone with heart disease, liver disease, high blood pressure, or seizure disorders.
these components are: patients can greatly reduce the frequency and severity of asthma attacks by understanding the difference between coping with asthma attacks and controlling the disease over time.
historically, about 10% of olympic athletes have asthma.