- all about the flu - all about the common cold - cold and flu medications - single symptom medications to treat cold and flu - over-the-counter pain relievers - otc - pain medication - pain relief - raising a two-year-old - first aid kit drugs - pain relievers for first aid kits - fever reducers fo... - use of fever reducer - vaccines kristina duda, r.n. cold & flu guide - sign up for my newsletter related searches fever reducer liver damage pain reliever tylenol acetaminophen pros and cons explore cold & flu must reads most popular - what is the cold/flu? - symptoms of the cold/flu - diagnosing the cold/flu - treating the cold/flu - answers to your flu shot questions see more about: - viral infection - colds and pregnancy - evaluate cough
fevers pain relief there are several types of medications available for pain relief and to  reduce fevers.
a part of the new york times company.
ibuprofen is a  nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (nsaid).
aleve is the brand name for naproxen.
ibuprofen is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (nsaid).
however, it can  cause liver damage if too much is taken or you have certain diseases.
find out if aleve is right for you.
top over the counter cold and flu medications suggested reading
advil or motrin (ibuprofen) advil and motrin are both brand names for ibuprofen.
we comply with the honcode standard for trustworthy health information: verify here.
it is sold  under many brand names, including bayer and ecotrin.
many people take low doses of aspirin to prevent heart attacks and stroke.
in english, that means that it  helps reduce swelling (and pain) but it is not a steroid.
ibuprofen is great for sore muscles, sore throats and can also be very effective at bringing down fevers.
it is available for use in children as young as 2 months old.
by category - flu symptoms - cold and flu medications - fevers - pain relief - common cold - flu - prevention - check your symptoms - see a healthcare provider - medication and tools - vaccines - pneumonia - bronchitis - other common illnesses - when your child is sick - glossary cold & flu - about.com - health - cold & flu - medication and tools - over the counter medication - fever and pain - pain relievers fever reducers - over the counter pain relievers fever reducers also from about.com: - most popular - latest articles - rss - calorie count - nutrition database - advertise on about.com - our story - news & events - work at about - sitemap - all topics - reprints - help - write for about - user agreement - ethics policy - patent info.
if you need help deciding which over the counter pain reliever or fever reducer is right for you and your symptoms, you have come to the right place.
both are effective pain relievers and fever reducers.
- privacy policy - your ad choices ©2012 about.com.
find out if aleve  is right for you.
tylenol (acetaminophen) tylenol is considered the safest pain reliever and fever reducer available.
find out if tylenol is right for you and your symptoms.
naproxen works differently than ibuprofen, but it has the same effect.
find out what your options are and the pros and cons to each pain reliever and fever reducer.
it is sold under many brand names, including bayer and ecotrin.
find out if ibuprofen is right for you.
however, it can cause liver damage if too much is taken or you have certain diseases.
top over the counter cold and flu medications suggested reading - what is strep throat?
aspirin should never be given to a child or teenager because it may cause a potentially fatal disease known as reye's syndrome.
sign up - cold / flu - symptoms/diagnosis - treatment - flu shot facts discuss in my forum top 4 over the counter pain relievers and fever reducers by kristina duda, r.n., about.com guide updated june 26, 2008 about.com health's disease and condition content is reviewed by our medical review board see more about: - flu symptoms - cold and flu medications - fevers - pain relief there are several types of medications available for pain relief and to reduce fevers.
ibuprofen is great  for sore muscles, sore throats and can also be very effective at bringing down  fevers.
naproxen is another nsaid, similar to  ibuprofen.
- about.com - health - cold & flu cold & flu search free cold & flu newsletter!
find out what your options are and the pros and cons to each pain  reliever and fever reducer.
aspirin not only relieves  pain, fevers and swelling, it also reduces the blood's ability to clot.
naproxen is another nsaid, similar to ibuprofen.
symptoms - weather and illness - cough medications
naproxen works differently than ibuprofen, but it has the same  effect.
aspirin should never be given to a child or teenager because it may cause a  potentially fatal disease known as reye's syndrome.
in english, that means that it helps reduce swelling (and pain) but it is not a steroid.
- what is bronchitis?
find out  if tylenol is right for you and your symptoms.
aspirin aspirin can be an effective pain reliever and fever reducer.
many  people take low doses of aspirin to prevent heart attacks and stroke.
- what is pneumonia?
related guide picks - evaluate your fever - when to see a doctor for a fever - how to use a thermometer other related resources & guide picks related articles - what is a sinus infection?
if you need help deciding which over the counter pain reliever  or fever reducer is right for you and your symptoms, you have come to the right  place.
aspirin not only relieves pain, fevers and swelling, it also reduces the blood's ability to clot.