patients with milder disease may be adequately treated with 20 mg/kg/day.
in addition, rare cases of severe hepatic reactions, including jaundice and fatal fulminant hepatitis, liver necrosis and hepatic failure, some of them with fatal outcomes have been reported.
based on oral dosing data there is an age- or fever- related change in volume of distribution for ibuprofen.
however,  because bleeding has been reported when motrin tablets and other nsaids have  been administered to patients on warfarin-type anticoagulants, the physician  should be cautious when administering motrin tablets to patients on  anticoagulants.
hepatic effects borderline elevations of one or more liver tests may occur in up to 15% of patients taking nsaids including motrin suspension.
this may be due to fluid retention, occult or gross gi blood loss,  or an incompletely described effect upon erythropoiesis.
the clinical significance of these findings is unknown.
carefully consider the potential benefits and risks of motrin suspension and other treatment options before deciding to use motrin suspension.
a patient with symptoms and/or signs suggesting liver dysfunction, or in  whom an abnormal liver test has occurred, should be evaluated for evidence of  the development of a more severe hepatic reaction while on therapy with motrin  suspension.
there is no consistent evidence that concurrent use of aspirin mitigates the increased risk of serious cv thrombotic events associated with nsaid use.
methotrexate nsaids have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate  accumulation in rabbit kidney slices.
for relief of the signs and symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis and  osteoarthritis.
the duration of fever reduction is generally 6 to 8 hours.
in vivo and in vitro studies indicate that the [+]s-isomer is responsible for  clinical activity.
however, animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response.
the degree of interconversion in children is unknown, but is  thought to be similar.
these serious events may occur without warning.
therefore,  treatment with motrin suspension is not recommended in these patients with  advanced renal disease.
warfarin several short-term controlled studies failed to show that motrin tablets  significantly affected prothrombin times or a variety of other clotting factors  when administered to individuals on warfarin-type anticoagulants.
motrin suspension cannot be expected to substitute for corticosteroids or to treat corticosteroid insufficiency.
hematological effects anemia is sometimes seen in patients receiving nsaids, including motrin suspension.
if these occur,  patients should be instructed to stop therapy and seek immediate medical  therapy.
although it is probably more likely to occur in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus and related connective tissue diseases, it has been reported in patients who do not have an underlying chronic disease.
table 1 pharmacokinetic  parameters of ibuprofen suspension
renal toxicity has also been seen in patients in whom  renal prostaglandins have a compensatory role in the maintenance of renal  perfusion.
it has a biphasic plasma elimination time curve with a half-life of approximately 2.0 hours.
advanced renal  disease no information is available from controlled clinical studies regarding the  use of motrin suspension in patients with advanced renal disease.
patients should also be encouraged to read the nsaid medication guide that accompanies each prescription dispensed.
in chronic conditions, a therapeutic response to motrin suspension therapy  is sometimes seen in a few days to a week, but most often is observed by two  weeks.
studies in febrile  children have established the dose-proportionality of 5 and 10 mg/kg doses of  ibuprofen.
the effects of motrin  suspension on labor and delivery in pregnant women are unknown.
individualization of dosage: the dose of motrin suspension should be  tailored to each patient, and may be lowered or raised from the suggested doses  depending on the severity of symptoms either at time of initiating drug therapy  or as the patient responds or fails to respond.
laboratory tests because serious gi tract ulcerations and bleeding can occur without warning  symptoms, physicians should monitor for signs or symptoms of gi bleeding.
patients and physicians should remain alert for signs and symptoms of gi ulceration and bleeding during nsaid therapy and promptly initiate additional evaluation and treatment if a serious gi adverse event is suspected.
therefore, administration of motrin suspension is not recommended during labor and delivery.
clinical studies - controlled clinical trials comparing doses of 5 and 10 mg/kg ibuprofen suspension and 10-15 mg/kg of acetaminophen elixir have been conducted in children 6 months to 12 years of age with fever primarily due to viral illnesses.
the therapeutic response may require from a few days to several  weeks to be achieved.
patients with known cv disease or risk factors for cv disease may be at greater  risk.
notable elevations of alt or ast (approximately three or  more times the upper limit of normal) have been reported in approximately 1% of  patients in clinical trials with nsaids.
one fever study showed that, after the initial dose of motrin suspension,  subsequent doses may be lowered and still provide adequate fever control.
its mode of action, like that of other nsaids, is not completely understood,  but may be related to prostaglandin synthetase inhibition.
therefore, when treating patients with 3200 mg/day, the physician should observe sufficient increased clinical benefits to offset potential increased risk.
motrin suspension may be used in combination with gold salts and/or  corticosteroids.
after a satisfactory response has been achieved, the patient's dose should be reviewed and adjusted as required.
these events can occur at any time during use and without  warning symptoms.
ibuprofen is well absorbed orally, with less  than 1% being excreted in the urine unchanged.
adults primary dysmenorrhea: for the treatment of primary dysmenorrhea, beginning with the earliest onset of such pain, motrin suspension should be given in a dose of 400 mg every 4 hours, as necessary, for the relief of pain.
nsaids, including motrin suspension, should be used with caution in patients with hypertension.
the most frequently reported symptoms of ibuprofen overdose include abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, lethargy and drowsiness.
suggested dosage: 1200-3200 mg daily (300 mg q.i.d.
children ingesting 200 to 400 mg/kg of ibuprofen should have immediate gastric emptying and at least four hours observation in a health care facility.
in pediatric patients, motrin  suspension is indicated: for reduction of fever in patients aged 6 months up to 2 years of age.
although  uncommon, serious toxicity and death have been reported in the medical  literature with ibuprofen overdosage.
congestive heart failure and edema fluid retention and edema have been observed in some patients taking nsaids.
patients on prolonged  corticosteroid therapy should have their therapy tapered slowly if a decision  is made to discontinue corticosteroids.
the use of aspirin in patients with aspirin-sensitive asthma has been associated with severe bronchospasm, which can be fatal.
ibuprofen is a racemic mixture of [+]s- and [-]r-enantiomers.
abnormal renal function, anemia, dizziness, edema, elevated liver enzymes, fluid retention, gastrointestinal experiences (including abdominal pain, bloating, constipation, diarrhea, dyspepsia, epigastric pain, flatulence, heartburn, nausea, vomiting), headaches, increased bleeding time, nervousness, pruritus, rashes (including maculopapular) and tinnitus.
in  adults, motrin is indicated: for treatment of primary dysmenorrhea.
to minimize the potential risk for an adverse gi event in patients treated with an nsaid, the lowest effective dose should be used for the shortest possible duration.
this may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate.
as with other nsaids, anaphylactoid reactions may occur in patients without  known prior exposure to motrin suspension.
however, because bleeding has been reported when motrin tablets and other nsaids have been administered to patients on warfarin-type anticoagulants, the physician should be cautious when administering motrin tablets to patients on anticoagulants.
this response has been attributed to inhibition of renal  prostaglandin synthesis.
for high risk patients, alternate therapies that do  not involve nsaids should be considered.
ingestion of less than 100 mg/kg is unlikely to produce toxicity.
this risk may  increase with duration of use.
it  is practically insoluble in water (<0.1 mg/ml), but readily soluble in  organic solvents such as ethanol and acetone.
the probable mechanism of action is to inhibit prostaglandin synthesis rather than simply to provide analgesia.
overdosage the toxicity of ibuprofen overdose is dependent upon the amount of drug  ingested and the time elapsed since ingestion, though individual response may  vary, which makes it necessary to evaluate each case individually.
to minimize the potential risk for an adverse cv event in patients  treated with an nsaid, the lowest effective dose should be used for the  shortest duration possible.
hematological effects anemia is sometimes seen in patients receiving nsaids, including motrin  suspension.
patients on long-term  treatment with nsaids, including motrin suspension, should have their  hemoglobin or hematocrit checked if they exhibit any signs or symptoms of  anemia.
the duration of fever  reduction is generally 6 to 8 hours.
cardiovascular  toxicity, including hypotension, bradycardia, tachycardia and atrial  fibrillation, also have been reported.
this effect has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by ibuprofen.
the mean  minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance of lithium  was decreased by 19% during this period of concomitant drug administration.
patients receiving motrin suspension who may be adversely affected by alterations in platelet function, such as those with coagulation disorders or patients receiving anticoagulants, should be carefully monitored.
motrin suspension, like other nsaids, can cause gi discomfort and, rarely,  serious gi side effects, such as ulcers and bleeding, which may result in  hospitalization or even death.
to minimize the potential risk for an adverse cv event in patients treated with an nsaid, the lowest effective dose should be used for the shortest duration possible.
other central nervous system symptoms include headache, tinnitus,  cns depression and seizures.
diabetics motrin suspension contains 0.3 g sucrose and 1.6 calories per ml, or 1.5 g sucrose and 8 calories per teaspoon, which should be taken into consideration when treating diabetic patients with this product.
suggested dosage: 1200-3200 mg  daily (300 mg q.i.d.
for high risk patients, alternate therapies that do not involve nsaids should be considered.
this should include discontinuation of the nsaid until a serious gi  adverse event is ruled out.
metabolism - following oral administration, the majority of the dose was recovered in the urine within 24 hours as the hydroxy-(25%) and carboxypropyl-(37%) phenylpropionic acid metabolites.
most spontaneous  reports of fatal gi events are in elderly or debilitated patients and  therefore, special care should be taken in treating this population.
patients on long-term treatment with nsaids should have their cbc and a  chemistry profile checked periodically.
although serious gi tract ulcerations and  bleeding can occur without warning symptoms, patients should be alert for signs  and symptoms of ulcerations and bleeding, and should ask for medical advice  when observing any indicative sign or symptoms including epigastric pain,  dyspepsia, melena, and hematemesis.
the need for referral and follow-up must be judged by the circumstances at the time of the overdose ingestion.
discontinuation of nsaid therapy is usually followed by recovery to the pretreatment state.
nsaids inhibit platelet aggregation and have been shown to prolong bleeding  time in some patients.
therefore, when treating patients  with 3200 mg/day, the physician should observe sufficient increased clinical  benefits to offset potential increased risk.
after observing the response to initial therapy with motrin suspension, the dose and frequency should be adjusted to suit an individual patient's needs.
use the  lowest effective dose for the shortest duration consistent with individual  patient treatment goals (seewarnings).
patients receiving  motrin suspension who may be adversely affected by alterations in platelet  function, such as those with coagulation disorders or patients receiving  anticoagulants, should be carefully monitored.
patients on long-term treatment with nsaids should have their cbc and a chemistry profile checked periodically.
all nsaids, both cox-2 selective and nonselective, may have a similar risk.
it is a white to  off-white crystalline powder, with a melting point of 74° to 77°c.
the concurrent use of aspirin and an nsaid does increase the risk of serious gi events (seegi warnings).
positive stool occult blood tests and elevated serum creatinine levels were also observed in these studies.
patients with aprior history of peptic ulcer disease and/or gastrointestinal bleeding who use nsaids have a greater than 10-fold risk for developing a gi bleed compared to patients with neither of these risk factors.
aseptic meningitis aseptic meningitis, with fever and coma, has been observed on rare occasions in patients on ibuprofen therapy.
this interaction should be given consideration in patients taking nsaids concomitantly with ace-inhibitors.
as with other nsaids, concomitant administration of ibuprofen and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects.
the percentages of free and conjugated ibuprofen found in the urine were approximately 1% and 14%, respectively.
a patient with symptoms and/or signs suggesting liver dysfunction, or in whom an abnormal liver test has occurred, should be evaluated for evidence of the development of a more severe hepatic reaction while on therapy with motrin suspension.
this may be due to fluid retention, occult or gross gi blood loss, or an incompletely described effect upon erythropoiesis.
motrin suspension may be used in combination with gold salts and/or corticosteroids.
children ingesting greater than  400 mg/kg require immediate medical referral, careful observation and  appropriate supportive therapy.
in adult patients the history of the dose reportedly ingested does not  appear to be predictive of toxicity.
doses should be given so as not to disturb the child's sleep pattern.
there are no adequate and well-controlled studies in pregnant women.
hepatic  effects borderline elevations of one or more liver tests may occur in up to 15% of  patients taking nsaids including motrin suspension.
this effect has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis  by ibuprofen.
patients should be advised to stop the drug immediately if they  develop any type of rash or contact their physicians as soon as possible.
abrupt discontinuation of  corticosteroids may lead to disease exacerbation.
it is a white to off-white crystalline powder, with a melting point of 74° to 77°c.
after observing the response to initial therapy with motrin suspension, the  dose and frequency should be adjusted to suit an individual patient's needs.
patients with known cv disease or risk factors for cv disease may be at greater risk.
in children with baseline temperatures at or below 102.5°f both ibuprofen doses and acetaminophen were equally effective in their maximum effect.
diuretics clinical studies, as well as post marketing observations, have shown that  motrin suspension can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides  in some patients.
individualization of dosage: the dose of motrin suspension should be tailored to each patient, and may be lowered or raised from the suggested doses depending on the severity of symptoms either at time of initiating drug therapy or as the patient responds or fails to respond.
[mean values (% coefficient of variation)] dose 200mg
patients should promptly reports signs and symptoms of unexplained weight  gain or edema to their physicians.
discontinuation of nsaid therapy  is usually followed by recovery to the pretreatment state.
these serious adverse events can occur at any time, with or without warning symptoms, in patients treated with nsaids.
since cross reactivity, including bronchospasm, between aspirin and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs has been reported in such aspirin-sensitive patients, motrin suspension should not be administered to patients with this form of aspirin sensitivity and should be used with caution in patients with preexisting asthma.
in children with temperatures above 102.5°f, the ibuprofen 10 mg/kg dose was more effective.
the treatment of acute ibuprofen overdose is primarily supportive.
if motrin suspension therapy must be initiated, close monitoring of the patient's renal function is advisable.
in children, the estimated amount of ibuprofen ingested per body weight may be helpful to predict the potential for development of toxicity although each case must be evaluated.
mechanism of action clinical pharmacology pharmacodynamics - ibuprofen is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug  (nsaid) that possesses anti-inflammatory, analgesic and antipyretic activity.
pediatric patients receiving doses above 30 mg/kg/day or if abnormal liver function tests have occurred with previous nsaid treatments should be carefully followed for signs and symptoms of early liver dysfunction.
the pharmacological activity of motrin suspension in reducing fever and inflammation may diminish the utility of these diagnostic signs in detecting complications of presumed noninfectious, painful conditions.
its molecular  formula is c13h1802 and it has the following structural formula: motrin suspension is a sucrose-sweetened, orange colored, berry flavored  suspension containing 100 mg of ibuprofen in 5 ml (20 mg/ml).
in rat studies with nsaids, as with other drugs known to inhibit  prostaglandin synthesis, an increased incidence of dystocia, delayed  parturition, and decreased pup survival occurred.
use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals (seewarnings).in pediatric patients, motrin suspension is indicated: since there have been no controlled trials to demonstrate whether there is any beneficial effect or harmful interaction with the use of ibuprofen in conjunction with aspirin, the combination cannot be recommended.
in chronic conditions, a therapeutic response to motrin suspension therapy is sometimes seen in a few days to a week, but most often is observed by two weeks.
ipecac-induced emesis is not recommended in  overdoses greater than 400 mg/kg because of the risk for convulsions and the  potential for aspiration of gastric contents.
patients should be informed of the signs of an anaphylactoid reaction  (e.g. difficulty breathing, swelling of the face or throat).
in addition, rare cases of severe  hepatic reactions, including jaundice and fatal fulminant hepatitis, liver  necrosis and hepatic failure, some of them with fatal outcomes have been  reported.
the active ingredient in motrin is ibuprofen, which is a member of the  propionic acid group of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (nsaids).
two large, controlled, clinical trials of a cox-2 selective nsaid for the treatment of pain in the first 10-14 days following cabg surgery found an increased incidence of myocardial infarction and stroke (seecontraindications).hypertension nsaids, including motrin suspension, can lead to onset of new hypertension or worsening of pre-existing hypertension, either of which may contribute to the increased incidence of cv events.
response after 1 hour was dependent on both the level of temperature elevation as well as the treatment.
adults primary dysmenorrhea: for the treatment of primary dysmenorrhea, beginning  with the earliest onset of such pain, motrin suspension should be given in a  dose of 400 mg every 4 hours, as necessary, for the relief of pain.
the recommended dose is 5 mg/kg if the baseline temperature is less than 102.5ºf, or 10 mg/kg if the baseline temperature is 102.5ºf or greater.
two large, controlled, clinical trials of a cox-2 selective nsaid for the  treatment of pain in the first 10-14 days following cabg surgery found an  increased incidence of myocardial infarction and stroke (seecontraindications).
the [-]r-form, while thought to be pharmacologically  inactive, is slowly and incompletely (~60%) interconverted into the active [+]s  species in adults.
this interaction should be given consideration in patients  taking nsaids concomitantly with ace-inhibitors.
upper gi ulcers, gross bleeding, or perforation caused by nsaids occur in  approximately 1% of patients treated for 3-6 months, and in about 2-4% of  patients treated for one year.
warfarin several short-term controlled studies failed to show that motrin tablets significantly affected prothrombin times or a variety of other clotting factors when administered to individuals on warfarin-type anticoagulants.
contraindications motrin suspension is contraindicated in patients with known  hypersensitivity to ibuprofen.
motrin suspension is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to ibuprofen.
it is practically insoluble in water (99% bound at 20μg/ml).
thus, when motrin and lithium are administered concurrently,  subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity.
geriatric use as with any nsaids, caution should be exercised in treating the elderly (65  years and older).
the use of aspirin  in patients with aspirin-sensitive asthma has been associated with severe  bronchospasm, which can be fatal.
motrin should be used in pregnancy  only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus.
powered by searchmedica source: dailymed, u.s. national library of medicine; updated 09/09 carefully consider the potential benefits and risks of motrin suspension and other treatment options before deciding to use motrin suspension.
only one in five patients,  who develop a serious upper gi adverse event on nsaid therapy, is symptomatic.
if these occur,  patients should be instructed to seek immediate emergency help (seewarnings).
the toxicity of ibuprofen overdose is dependent upon the amount of drug ingested and the time elapsed since ingestion, though individual response may vary, which makes it necessary to evaluate each case individually.
gastrointestinal effects – risk of ulceration, bleeding, and perforation nsaids, including motrin suspension, can cause serious gastrointestinal (gi) adverse events including inflammation, bleeding, ulceration, and perforation of the stomach, small intestine, or large intestine, which can be fatal.
management of hypotension, acidosis and gastrointestinal bleeding may be  necessary.
lithium ibuprofen produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in  renal lithium clearance in a study of eleven normal volunteers.
ibuprofen has a pka of  4.43±0.03 and an n-octanol/water partition coefficient of 11.7 at ph  7.4.
in two postmarketing clinical studies the incidence of a decreased  hemoglobin level was greater than previously reported.
in patients with primary dysmenorrhea, ibuprofen has been shown to reduce elevated levels of prostaglandin activity in the menstrual fluid and to reduce testing and active intrauterine pressure, as well as the frequency of uterine contractions.
motrin suspension should not be given to patients who have experienced asthma, urticaria, or allergic-type reactions after taking aspirin or other nsaids.
patients with milder  disease may be adequately treated with 20 mg/kg/day.
patients should be informed about the signs and symptoms of  serious skin manifestations and use of the drug should be discontinued at the  first appearance of skin rash or any other sign of hypersensitivity.
source: dailymed, u.s. national library of medicine; updated  09/09 motrin suspension suspension (0045-0448) ibuprofen 100 milligram in 5  milliliter indications carefully consider the potential benefits and risks of motrin suspension  and other treatment options before deciding to use motrin suspension.
patients should be informed about the signs and/or symptoms of serious cv  events and the steps to take if they occur.
nsaids should be prescribed with extreme caution in those with a prior  history of ulcer disease or gastrointestinal bleeding.
hypertension nsaids, including motrin suspension, can lead to onset of new hypertension  or worsening of pre-existing hypertension, either of which may contribute to  the increased incidence of cv events.
information for  patients: patients should be informed of the following information before initiating  therapy with an nsaid and periodically during the course of ongoing therapy.
metabolic acidosis, coma, acute renal failure and apnea (primarily in very young children) may rarely occur.
in a situation when low fever would require the motrin suspension 5 mg/kg  dose in a child with pain, the dose that will effectively treat the predominant  symptom should be chosen.
patients should also be encouraged to read the nsaid medication guide that  accompanies each prescription dispensed.
nsaids should be prescribed with extreme caution in those with a prior history of ulcer disease or gastrointestinal bleeding.
in late pregnancy, as with other nsaids, motrin should be avoided because  it may cause premature closure of the ductus arteriosus.
physicians and patients should remain alert for the development of such events, even in the absence of previous cv symptoms.
patients and physicians should remain alert for signs and  symptoms of gi ulceration and bleeding during nsaid therapy and promptly  initiate additional evaluation and treatment if a serious gi adverse event is  suspected.
in patients taking motrin or other nsaids, the most frequently reported  adverse experiences occurring in approximately 1-10% of patients are: abnormal  renal function, anemia, dizziness, edema, elevated liver enzymes, fluid  retention, gastrointestinal experiences (including abdominal pain, bloating,  constipation, diarrhea, dyspepsia, epigastric pain, flatulence, heartburn,  nausea, vomiting), headaches, increased bleeding time, nervousness, pruritus,  rashes (including maculopapular) and tinnitus.
the chemical name for ibuprofen is (±)-2-(p-isobutylphenyl)  propionic acid.
severe, rarely fatal, anaphylactic-like reactions to nsaids have been reported in such patients (seewarnings – anaphylactoid reactions, and precautions – preexisting asthma).
if clinical signs and symptoms consistent with liver disease develop, or if systemic manifestations occur (e.g., eosinophilia, rash, etc.), motrin suspension should be discontinued.
after a satisfactory response has been achieved, the patient's dose  should be reviewed and adjusted as required.
pediatric use safety and effectiveness of motrin suspension in pediatric patients below  the age of 6 months have not been established (seeclinical pharmacology -  clinical studies).
the  recommended maximum daily dose is 40 mg/kg.
or 400 mg, 600 mg or 800 mg t.i.d.
the excretion of ibuprofen is virtually complete 24 hours after the last dose.
anaphylactoid reactions as with other nsaids, anaphylactoid reactions may occur in patients without known prior exposure to motrin suspension.
the need for referral and follow-up must  be judged by the circumstances at the time of the overdose ingestion.
the mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance of lithium was decreased by 19% during this period of concomitant drug administration.
caution should be used when nsaids are administered concomitantly with methotrexate.
store at controlled room temperature [15º to 30ºc (59º to 86ºf)] caution: federal law prohibits dispensing without prescription.
there is no consistent evidence that concurrent use of aspirin mitigates  the increased risk of serious cv thrombotic events associated with nsaid use.
diabetics motrin suspension contains 0.3 g sucrose and 1.6 calories per ml, or 1.5 g  sucrose and 8 calories per teaspoon, which should be taken into consideration  when treating diabetic patients with this product.
in cases of acute overdose, the stomach should be emptied through ipecac-induced emesis or lavage.
it has a biphasic elimination  time curve with a plasma half-life of approximately 2 hours.
children ingesting 200 to  400 mg/kg of ibuprofen should have immediate gastric emptying and at least four  hours observation in a health care facility.
motrin suspension, like other nsaids, may cause serious cv side effects,  such as mi or stroke, which may result in hospitalization, and even death.
rheumatoid arthritis and osteoarthritis:
motrin suspension is contraindicated for the treatment of peri-operative pain in the setting of coronary artery bypass graft (cabg) surgery (seewarnings ).
thus, when motrin and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity.
unlike aspirin, their effect on platelet function is  quantitatively less, of shorter duration, and reversible.
cardiovascular toxicity, including hypotension, bradycardia, tachycardia and atrial fibrillation, also have been reported.
caution should be used when nsaids are  administered concomitantly with methotrexate.
information for patients: patients should be informed of the following information before initiating therapy with an nsaid and periodically during the course of ongoing therapy.
there is no difference in the observed terminal elimination rate or half-life between children and adults, however, there is an age-or fever-related change in total clearance.
these serious events may occur  without warning.
if motrin suspension therapy must be initiated, close  monitoring of the patient's renal function is advisable.
nsaids, including motrin suspension, should be used with caution in patients  with hypertension.
patients with rheumatoid arthritis seem to require higher doses than do patients with osteoarthritis.
in these studies there were no differences between treatments in fever reduction for the first hour and maximum fever reduction occurred between 2 and 4 hours.
motrin suspension should not be given to patients with the aspirin triad.
renal effects long-term administration of nsaids has resulted in renal papillary necrosis  and other renal injury.
emergency help should be sought in cases where an anaphylactoid reaction occurs.
(see precautions – drug interactions).
pregnancy reproductive studies conducted in rats and rabbits have not demonstrated evidence of developmental abnormalities.
during concomitant therapy with nsaids, the patient  should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (seewarnings, renal  effects), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy.
most spontaneous reports of fatal gi events are in elderly or debilitated patients and therefore, special care should be taken in treating this population.
lithium ibuprofen produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance in a study of eleven normal volunteers.
patients on prolonged corticosteroid therapy should have their therapy tapered slowly if a decision is made to discontinue corticosteroids.
in children, the estimated amount of ibuprofen ingested per body weight may  be helpful to predict the potential for development of toxicity although each  case must be evaluated.
because many  drugs are excreted in human milk and because of the potential for serious  adverse reactions in nursing infants from motrin suspension, a decision should  be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug, taking into  account the importance of the drug to the mother.
gastrointestinal effects – risk of  ulceration, bleeding, and perforation nsaids, including motrin suspension, can cause serious gastrointestinal  (gi) adverse events including inflammation, bleeding, ulceration, and  perforation of the stomach, small intestine, or large intestine, which can be  fatal.
since cross reactivity, including  bronchospasm, between aspirin and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs  has been reported in such aspirin-sensitive patients, motrin suspension should  not be administered to patients with this form of aspirin sensitivity and  should be used with caution in patients with preexisting asthma.
children ingesting 100 to 200 mg/kg may be managed with induced emesis and a minimal observation time of four hours.
the recommended dose is 30 to 40 mg/kg/day divided into three to four doses (seeindividualization of dosage).
patients on long-term treatment with nsaids, including motrin suspension, should have their hemoglobin or hematocrit checked if they exhibit any signs or symptoms of anemia.
these trends continue with longer duration of use, increasing the likelihood of developing a serious gi event at some time during the course of therapy.
decrease in hemoglobin  of 1 gram or more was observed in 17.1% of 193 patients on 1600 mg ibuprofen  daily (osteoarthritis), and in 22.8% of 189 patients taking 2400 mg of  ibuprofen daily (rheumatoid arthritis).
blood pressure (bp) should be monitored closely during the initiation of nsaid treatment and throughout the course of therapy.
ipecac-induced emesis is not recommended in overdoses greater than 400 mg/kg because of the risk for convulsions and the potential for aspiration of gastric contents.
for relief of signs and symptoms of juvenile arthritis.
management of hypotension, acidosis and gastrointestinal bleeding may be necessary.
this response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis.
during concomitant therapy with nsaids, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (seewarnings, renal effects), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy.
individual  patients may show a better response to 3200 mg daily, as compared with 2400 mg,  although in well-controlled clinical trials patients on 3200 mg did not show a  better mean response in terms of efficacy.
nonteratogenic effects because of the known effects of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs on the fetal cardiovascular system (closure of ductus arteriosus), use during pregnancy (particularly late pregnancy) should be avoided.
nsaids inhibit platelet aggregation and have been shown to prolong bleeding time in some patients.
orally administered activated charcoal may help in reducing the absorption and reabsorption of ibuprofen.
the molecular weight of ibuprofen is 206.28.
if clinical signs and symptoms consistent with liver or renal disease develop, systemic manifestations occur (e.g., eosinophilia, rash, etc.)
the [-]r-isomer serves as a circulating reservoir to  maintain levels of active drug.
diuretics clinical studies, as well as post marketing observations, have shown that motrin suspension can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients.
metabolic acidosis, coma, acute renal failure and  apnea (primarily in very young children) may rarely occur.
patients taking thiazides or loop  diuretics may have impaired response to these therapies when taking nsaids.
because many drugs are excreted in human milk and because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from motrin suspension, a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug, taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother.
pain: office diagnosis and treatment © 1996 - 2012 ubm medica llc, a ubm company privacy statement - terms of service - advertising information - editorial policy statement - ubm medica network privacy policy
in late pregnancy, as with other nsaids, motrin suspension should be  avoided because it may cause premature closure of the ductus arteriosus.
renal effects long-term administration of nsaids has resulted in renal papillary necrosis and other renal injury.
renal toxicity has also been seen in patients in whom renal prostaglandins have a compensatory role in the maintenance of renal perfusion.
in two postmarketing clinical studies the incidence of a decreased hemoglobin level was greater than previously reported.
warnings boxed warning cardiovascular risk nsaids may cause an increased risk of serious cardiovascular thrombotic  events, myocardial infarction, and stroke, which can be fatal.
motrin suspension should be used with caution in patients with fluid retention or heart failure.
because serious gi tract ulcerations and bleeding can occur without warning symptoms, physicians should monitor for signs or symptoms of gi bleeding.
therefore, treatment with motrin suspension is not recommended in these patients with advanced renal disease.
nursing mothers it is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk.
dosing of motrin suspension in children 6 months or older  should be guided by their body weight (seedosage and administration).
elderly patients are at greater risk for serious  gastrointestinal events (seewarnings).
as with other nsaids, concomitant administration of ibuprofen and aspirin  is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse  effects.
adverse drug reactions
patients should be apprised of the importance  of this follow-up (seewarnings, cardiovascular effects).
pediatric use safety and effectiveness of motrin suspension in pediatric patients below the age of 6 months have not been established (seeclinical pharmacology - clinical studies).
since there have been no controlled trials to demonstrate whether there is  any beneficial effect or harmful interaction with the use of ibuprofen in  conjunction with aspirin, the combination cannot be recommended.
blood pressure (bp) should be monitored closely during the  initiation of nsaid treatment and throughout the course of therapy.
other factors that increase the risk for gi  bleeding in patients treated with nsaids include concomitant use of oral  corticosteroids or anticoagulants, longer duration of nsaid therapy, smoking,  use of alcohol, older age, and poor general health status.
patients at greatest risk of this reaction are those with impaired renal function, heart failure, liver dysfunction, those taking diuretics and ace inhibitors, and the elderly.
children ingesting 100 to 200 mg/kg may be managed with induced  emesis and a minimal observation time of four hours.
notable elevations of alt or ast (approximately three or more times the upper limit of normal) have been reported in approximately 1% of patients in clinical trials with nsaids.
cardiovascular effects cardiovascular thrombotic events clinical trials of several cox-2 selective and nonselective nsaids of up to  three years duration have shown an increased risk of serious cardiovascular  (cv) thrombotic events, myocardial infarction, and stroke, which can be fatal.
in adult patients the history of the dose reportedly ingested does not appear to be predictive of toxicity.
additional adverse experiences reported occasionally include: the active ingredient in motrin is ibuprofen, which is a member of the propionic acid group of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (nsaids).
analgesia: for relief of mild to moderate pain in children 6 months up to 2  years of age, the recommended dosage is 10 mg/kg, every 6 to 8 hours.
the pharmacological activity of motrin suspension in reducing fever and  inflammation may diminish the utility of these diagnostic signs in detecting  complications of presumed noninfectious, painful conditions.
in patients with juvenile arthritis, doses above 50 mg/kg/day are not recommended because they have not been studied and doses exceeding the upper recommended dose of 40 mg/kg/day may increase the risk of causing serious adverse events.
in a situation when low fever would require the motrin suspension 5 mg/kg dose in a child with pain, the dose that will effectively treat the predominant symptom should be chosen.
gastrointestinal risk nsaids cause an increased risk of serious gastrointestinal adverse events  including bleeding, ulceration, and perforation of the stomach or intestines,  which can be fatal.
special  precautions general motrin suspension cannot be expected to substitute for corticosteroids or  to treat corticosteroid insufficiency.
upper gi ulcers, gross bleeding, or perforation caused by nsaids occur in approximately 1% of patients treated for 3-6 months, and in about 2-4% of patients treated for one year.
doses should be given so as not to  disturb the child's sleep pattern.
this should include discontinuation of the nsaid until a serious gi adverse event is ruled out.
this may indicate that they could enhance  the toxicity of methotrexate.
pediatric patients receiving doses above 30 mg/kg/day or if abnormal liver  function tests have occurred with previous nsaid treatments should be carefully  followed for signs and symptoms of early liver dysfunction.
the biological activities of ibuprofen are associated with the  [+]s-enantiomer.
physicians and patients should remain alert for the  development of such events, even in the absence of previous cv symptoms.
motrin suspension should not be  given to patients with the aspirin triad.
one fever study showed that, after the initial dose of motrin suspension, subsequent doses may be lowered and still provide adequate fever control.
unlike aspirin, their effect on platelet function is quantitatively less, of shorter duration, and reversible.
patients should be apprised of the  importance of this follow-up (seewarnings, gastrointestinal effects: risk of  ulceration, bleeding, and perforation).
the most frequently reported symptoms of  ibuprofen overdose include abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, lethargy and  drowsiness.
febrile children <11 years old have a volume of approximately 0.2 l/kg while adults have a volume of approximately 0.12 l/kg.
in these patients, administration of a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug may cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation and, secondarily, in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation.
advanced renal disease no information is available from controlled clinical studies regarding the use of motrin suspension in patients with advanced renal disease.
protein binding is saturable and at concentrations >20μg/ml binding is non-linear.
only one in five patients, who develop a serious upper gi adverse event on nsaid therapy, is symptomatic.
the concurrent use of aspirin and an nsaid does increase the risk of serious gi  events (seegi warnings).
in these patients, administration of a nonsteroidal  anti-inflammatory drug may cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin  formation and, secondarily, in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt  renal decompensation.
nonteratogenic effects because of the known effects of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs on the  fetal cardiovascular system (closure of ductus arteriosus), use during  pregnancy (particularly late pregnancy) should be avoided.
although serious skin reactions may occur  without warning, patients should be alert for the signs and symptoms of skin  rash and blisters, fever, or other signs of hypersensitivity such as itching,  and should ask for medical advice when observing any indicative signs or  symptoms.
labor and  delivery
after absorption of  the racemic ibuprofen, the [-]r-enantiomer undergoes interconversion to the  [+]s-form.
aseptic  meningitis aseptic meningitis, with fever and coma, has been observed on rare  occasions in patients on ibuprofen therapy.
once a clinical effect is obtained, the dosage should be lowered to the smallest dose of motrin needed to maintain adequate control of symptoms.
clinical trials of several cox-2 selective and nonselective nsaids of up to three years duration have shown an increased risk of serious cardiovascular (cv) thrombotic events, myocardial infarction, and stroke, which can be fatal.
patients should be informed about the signs and/or symptoms of serious cv events and the steps to take if they occur.
this symptom complex typically occurs in asthmatic patients who experience rhinitis with or without nasal polyps, or who exhibit severe, potentially fatal bronchospasm after taking aspirin or other nsaids (seecontraindications and precautions – preexisting asthma).
in rat studies with nsaids, as with other drugs known to inhibit prostaglandin synthesis, an increased incidence of dystocia, delayed parturition, and decreased pup survival occurred.
positive stool occult blood tests and  elevated serum creatinine levels were also observed in these studies.
emesis is most effective if initiated within 30 minutes of ingestion.
in late pregnancy, as with other nsaids, motrin should be avoided because it may cause premature closure of the ductus arteriosus.
therefore,  administration of motrin suspension is not recommended during labor and  delivery.
in patients taking motrin or other nsaids, the most frequently reported adverse experiences occurring in approximately 1-10% of patients are:
skin reactions nsaids, including motrin suspension, can cause serious skin adverse events such as exfoliative dermatitis, stevens-johnson syndrome (sjs), and toxic epidermal necrolysis (ten), which can be fatal.
emesis is most effective if initiated within  30 minutes of ingestion.
the effects of warfarin and nsaids on gi bleeding are synergistic, such that the users of both drugs together have a risk of serious gi bleeding higher than users of either drug alone.
these trends continue with longer duration of  use, increasing the likelihood of developing a serious gi event at some time  during the course of therapy.
motrin suspension should not be given to patients who have experienced  asthma, urticaria, or allergic-type reactions after taking aspirin or other  nsaids.
skin reactions nsaids, including motrin suspension, can cause serious skin adverse events  such as exfoliative dermatitis, stevens-johnson syndrome (sjs), and toxic  epidermal necrolysis (ten), which can be fatal.
if clinical signs and symptoms consistent with liver disease  develop, or if systemic manifestations occur (e.g., eosinophilia, rash, etc.),  motrin suspension should be discontinued.
the smallest dose of motrin suspension that yields acceptable control should be employed.
however, animal reproduction studies  are not always predictive of human response.
the recommended maximum daily dose is 40  mg/kg.
this symptom complex typically occurs  in asthmatic patients who experience rhinitis with or without nasal polyps, or  who exhibit severe, potentially fatal bronchospasm after taking aspirin or  other nsaids (seecontraindications and precautions – preexisting asthma).
however, even short-term therapy is not without risk.
although it is probably more likely  to occur in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus and related connective  tissue diseases, it has been reported in patients who do not have an underlying  chronic disease.
severe, rarely fatal, anaphylactic-like reactions to nsaids have been  reported in such patients (seewarnings – anaphylactoid reactions, and  precautions – preexisting asthma).
there are no adequate and  well-controlled studies in pregnant women.
anaphylactoid  reactions
motrin suspension is contraindicated for the treatment of peri-operative  pain in the setting of coronary artery bypass graft (cabg) surgery (seewarnings ).
mcneil pediatrics division of mcneil-ppc, inc. fort washington, pa 19034-usa april 2007 anal pain: office diagnosis and treatmentanal
pediatric patients fever reduction: for reduction of fever in children, 6 months up to 2 years of age, the dosage should be adjusted on the basis of the initial temperature level (seeclinical pharmacology).
this suggests that the observed change in clearance is due to changes in the volume of distribution of ibuprofen (seetable 1 for cl/f values).
orally administered activated charcoal may help in  reducing the absorption and reabsorption of ibuprofen.
motrin® (ibuprofen) suspension, 100 mg/5 ml orange-colored, berry- flavored suspension - bottles of 120 ml – ndc 0045-0448-04 - bottles of 480 ml – ndc 0045-0448-16 shake well before using.
although serious cv events can occur without warning symptoms, patients should  be alert for the signs and symptoms of chest pain, shortness of breath,  weakness, slurring of speech, and should ask for medical advice when observing  any indicative sign or symptoms.
if clinical signs and symptoms  consistent with liver or renal disease develop, systemic manifestations occur  (e.g., eosinophilia, rash, etc.) or if abnormal liver tests persist or worsen,  motrin suspension should be discontinued.
the effects of motrin suspension on labor and delivery in pregnant women are unknown.
the recommended dose is 30 to 40 mg/kg/day divided into  three to four doses (seeindividualization of dosage).
or if abnormal liver tests persist or worsen, motrin suspension should be discontinued.
preexisting asthma patients with asthma may have aspirin-sensitive asthma.
in control groups treated with 10 mg/kg acetaminophen, fever reduction resembled that seen in children treated with 5 mg/kg of ibuprofen, with the exception that temperature elevation tended to return 1-2 hours earlier.
it also may contain one or several of the  following colorants: fd&c red #40, d&c yellow #10, d&c red #33, and  fd&c blue #1.
these laboratory  abnormalities may progress, may remain unchanged, or may be transient with  continuing therapy.
(read  circulars for lithium preparation before use of such concurrent therapy.)
ingestion of less than 100 mg/kg is unlikely to produce  toxicity.
congestive heart failure and edema fluid retention and edema have been observed in some patients taking  nsaids.
these laboratory abnormalities may progress, may remain unchanged, or may be transient with continuing therapy.
drug interactions ace-inhibitors reports suggest that nsaids may diminish the antihypertensive effect of  ace-inhibitors.
inactive  ingredients include: acesulfame-k, citric acid, glycerin, polysorbate 80,  pregelatinized starch, purified water, sodium benzoate, sucrose, xanthan gum,  and natural and artificial flavors.
drug interactions reports suggest that nsaids may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ace-inhibitors.
pharmacokinetics - ibuprofen is a racemic mixture of [-]r-and [+]s-isomers.
for relief of mild to moderate pain in patients aged 6 months up to 2  years of age.
dosage carefully consider the potential benefits and risks of motrin suspension  and other treatment options before deciding to use motrin suspension.
absorption - in vivo studies indicate that ibuprofen is well absorbed  orally from the suspension formulation, with peak plasma levels usually  occurring within 1 to 2 hours (seetable 1).
(read circulars for lithium preparation before use of such concurrent therapy.)methotrexate nsaids have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices.
by 6 hours, children treated with ibuprofen 5mg/kg tended to have recurrence of fever, whereas children treated with ibuprofen 10 mg/kg still had significant fever reduction at 8 hours.
motrin suspension should be used with caution in patients with fluid  retention or heart failure.
once a clinical effect is obtained, the dosage should be  lowered to the smallest dose of motrin needed to maintain adequate control of  symptoms.
patients at greatest risk of this reaction are those with  impaired renal function, heart failure, liver dysfunction, those taking  diuretics and ace inhibitors, and the elderly.
patients should be informed of the warning signs and symptoms of  hepatotoxicity (e.g., nausea, fatigue, lethargy, pruritis, jaundice, right  upper quadrant tenderness, and "flu-like" symptoms).
studies in adults have established the dose-proportionality of  ibuprofen as a single oral dose from 50 to 600 mg for total drug and up to 1200  mg for free drug.
symptomatic adults should be carefully evaluated, observed and supported.
children ingesting greater than 400 mg/kg require immediate medical referral, careful observation and appropriate supportive therapy.
patients should be informed about the signs and symptoms of serious skin manifestations and use of the drug should be discontinued at the first appearance of skin rash or any other sign of hypersensitivity.
the effects of warfarin and nsaids on gi bleeding are  synergistic, such that the users of both drugs together have a risk of serious  gi bleeding higher than users of either drug alone.
however, even short-term therapy is not without  risk.
individual patients may show a better response to 3200 mg daily, as compared with 2400 mg, although in well-controlled clinical trials patients on 3200 mg did not show a better mean response in terms of efficacy.
analgesia: for relief of mild to moderate pain in children 6 months up to 2 years of age, the recommended dosage is 10 mg/kg, every 6 to 8 hours.
pediatric patients fever reduction: for reduction of fever in children, 6 months up to 2  years of age, the dosage should be adjusted on the basis of the initial  temperature level (seeclinical pharmacology).
the remainder of the drug was found in the stool as both metabolites and unabsorbed drug.
patients with aprior  history of peptic ulcer disease and/or gastrointestinal bleeding who use nsaids  have a greater than 10-fold risk for developing a gi bleed compared to patients  with neither of these risk factors.
the recommended maximum daily dose is 40 mg/kg.
additional adverse  experiences reported occasionally include: body as a whole - fever,  infection, sepsis cardiovascular system - congestive heart failure in  patients with marginal cardiac function, hypertension, tachycardia, syncope digestive system - dry mouth, duodenitits, esophagitis, gastric or duodenal  ulcer with bleeding and/or perforation, gastritis, gastrointestinal bleeding,  glossitis, hematemesis, hepatitis, jaundice, melena, rectal bleeding hemic  and lymphatic system - ecchymosis, eosinophilia, leukopenia, purpura,  stomatitis, thrombocytopenia metabolic and nutritional - weight changes nervous system - anxiety, asthenia, confusion, depression, dream  abnormalities, drowsiness, insomnia, malaise, paresthesia, somnolence, tremors,  vertigo respiratory system - asthma, dyspnea skin and appendages -  alopecia, photosensitivity, sweat special senses - blurred vision urogenital system - cystitis, dysuria, hematuria, interstitial nephritis,  oliguria/polyuria, proteinuria, acute renal failure in patients with  pre-existing significantly impaired renal function other adverse  reactions, which occur rarely are: body as a whole - anaphylactic  reactions, anaphylactoid reactions, appetite changes, cardiovascular  system - arrhythmia, cerebrovascular accident, hypotension, myocardial  infarction, palpitations, vasculitis digestive system - eructation,  gingival ulcer, hepatorenal syndrome, liver necrosis, liver failure,  pancreatitis hemic and lymphatic system - agranulocystosis, hemolytic  anemia, aplastic anemia, lymphadenopathy, neutropenia, pancytopenia metabolic and nutritional - hyperglycemia nervous system - convulsions,  coma, emotional lability, hallucinations, aseptic meningitis respiratory -  apnea, respiratory depression, pneumonia, rhinitis skin and appendages -  angioedema, toxic epidermal necrosis, erythema multiforme, exfoliative  dermatitis, stevens johnson syndrome, urticaria, vesiculobullous eruptions special senses - amblyopia (blurred and/or diminished vision, scotomata and/or  changes in color vision), conjunctivitis, dry eyes, hearing impairment urogenital- azotemia, decreased creatinine clearance, glomerulitis, renal  papillary necrosis, tubular necrosis description
patients with cardiovascular disease or risk  factors for cardiovascular disease may be at greater risk (seewarnings).
motrin suspension, like other nsaids, can cause serious skin side effects  such as exfoliative dermatitis, sjs, and ten, which may result in  hospitalizations and even death.
use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals (seewarnings).
in patients with juvenile arthritis, doses above 50 mg/kg/day are not  recommended because they have not been studied and doses exceeding the upper  recommended dose of 40 mg/kg/day may increase the risk of causing serious  adverse events.
patients with rheumatoid arthritis seem to require higher doses than do  patients with osteoarthritis.
the recommended dose is 5 mg/kg  if the baseline temperature is less than 102.5ºf, or 10 mg/kg if the  baseline temperature is 102.5ºf or greater.
patients taking thiazides or loop diuretics may have impaired response to these therapies when taking nsaids.
other factors that increase the risk for gi bleeding in patients treated with nsaids include concomitant use of oral corticosteroids or anticoagulants, longer duration of nsaid therapy, smoking, use of alcohol, older age, and poor general health status.
decrease in hemoglobin of 1 gram or more was observed in 17.1% of 193 patients on 1600 mg ibuprofen daily (osteoarthritis), and in 22.8% of 189 patients taking 2400 mg of ibuprofen daily (rheumatoid arthritis).
in cases of acute overdose, the stomach should be emptied through  ipecac-induced emesis or lavage.
the smallest dose of motrin suspension that  yields acceptable control should be employed.
although uncommon, serious toxicity and death have been reported in the medical literature with ibuprofen overdosage.
other central nervous system symptoms include headache, tinnitus, cns depression and seizures.
these serious adverse events can occur at any time, with or without  warning symptoms, in patients treated with nsaids.
the therapeutic response may require from a few days to several weeks to be achieved.
pregnancy teratogenic effects – pregnancy category c reproductive studies conducted in rats and rabbits have not demonstrated  evidence of developmental abnormalities.
abrupt discontinuation of corticosteroids may lead to disease exacerbation.
to minimize the potential risk for an adverse gi event in patients treated  with an nsaid, the lowest effective dose should be used for the shortest  possible duration.
dosing of motrin suspension in children 6 months or older should be guided by their body weight (seedosage and administration).geriatric use as with any nsaids, caution should be exercised in treating the elderly (65 years and older).
motrin should be used in pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus.
elimination - ibuprofen is rapidly metabolized and eliminated in the urine.