it is not advisable to try to lower the body temperature before consulting a physician (i.e. by taking a cold shower).
consult a physician about a fever if: in addition, consult a physician immediately if any of these signs and symptoms accompany a fever: to check body temperature, several types of thermometers are available, including electronic thermometers and ear (tympanic) thermometers.
the thermometer is then removed and the temperature read.
therefore a person with a fever will not sweat, even though body temperature is higher than normal, until a fever "breaks" (starts to resolve).
wash the hands vigorously, covering both the front and back of each hand with soap, and rinsing thoroughly under running water.
for adults consult a physician about a fever if: the body temperature is more than 103 °f (39.4 °c).
manybacteria thrive in an environment of around 98.6 °f (37 °c), but don't reproduce as well at a higher temperature of only one or two degrees.
the "normal" temperature taken by mouth can range from about 97 °f (36.1 °c) to 99.9 °f (37.7 °c).[3] normal body temperature is regulated by several areas in the brain and nervous system, including the hypothalamus, an area at the base of the brain that acts as a thermostat for the body.[2] in a healthy individual, anything that results in a rise in body temperature, for example exercising, causes the regulatory system to activate body mechanisms, such as sweating, to reduce the temperature back to normal.
the axillary temperature is about 1 degree  fahrenheit lower than an oral temperature.
consult apediatrician (children's doctor) if the baby: consult a pediatrician if the child: sometimes, older children can have a lower-than-normal temperature.
because the contents of glassmercury thermometers harm both humans and the environment, they are no longer recommended.
although alarming, the majority  of febrile seizures cause no lasting effects.
reference ↑ 2.0 2.1 2.2 2.3 mackowiak pa.
a temperature is normally taking by placing an oral thermometer in the  mouth, or a rectal thermometer in the rectum, and leaving it in place for three  to five minutes.
taking a temperature to check body temperature, several types of thermometers are available,  including electronic thermometers and ear (tympanic) thermometers.
doing so may only prolong the illness or mask underlying symptoms and make it harder to determine the cause.
high doses of  acetaminophen, or taking the drug for a long time, may cause liver or kidney  damage, and an overdoses can be fatal.
1992 sep  23-30;268(12):1578-80.abstract ↑ 4.0 4.1 mackowiak pa.
endogenous pyrogens are chemicals produced by specific cells in the body, mainlymacrophages and other phagocytic cells (cells that engulf invading microbes), in response to an invading microbe or to exogenous pyrogens.
use a rectal thermometer for infants as follows: place a dab of petroleum jelly on the bulb of the thermometer.
thermometers with digital readouts and those that take the temperature  quickly from the ear canal are especially useful for young children and older  adults.
a unifying  hypothesis.
a fever isn't an illness itself, but an indication that something out of the ordinary is going on in the body.
glossary of terms for thermal physiology.
lay the baby on his or her tummy.
if the body  temperature is higher than 100.9 °f (38.3 °c) for more than three weeks  and the doctor isn't able to find the cause after extensive evaluation, the  diagnosis may befever of unknown origin.[6] [7] in most cases, though, the  cause of the fever can be found and treated.
a temperature is normally taking by placing an oral thermometer in the mouth, or a rectal thermometer in the rectum, and leaving it in place for three to five minutes.
a fever occurs when the body temperature rises above its normal range.
carry hand-washing towelettes for times when access to soap and water is not available.
these solutions contain water and salts in specific proportions to  replenish both fluids andelectrolytes in children.
for a  small child, use a syringe with measurements on the side and a bulb on the tip.
unusual skin rash, especially if the rash gets rapidly worse.
sometimesheat exhaustion, extreme sunburn or certain inflammatory  conditions such astemporal arteritis (inflammation of an artery in the head)
other recommendations for both  older children and adults include the following: for fever below 102 °f (38.9 °c) don't use any medication for a fever in this range unless advised by a  doctor.
water is a good choice for adults, but the best liquid for a sick child under one year of age is an oral rehydration solution (such as pedialyte).
endotoxin or lps, a component of gram negative bacteria, is a potent pyrogen.
for infants an unexplained fever is a greater cause for concern in infants and children  than in adults.
abstract to suggest changes to this page, you must create an account on medpedia.
remove any sharp objects that are near the child loosen tight clothing and hold the child to prevent injury don't place anything in the child's mouth or try to stop the seizure
2006  mar;27(3):205-11.abstract ↑ knockaert dc, vanderschueren s, blockmans d. fever of unknown  origin in adults: 40 years on.
in rare instances, a malignanttumor or some forms of kidney cancer may cause a fever.
prevention the best way to prevent fevers is to reduce exposure to infectious  diseases.
has a fever and unexplained irritability, such as marked crying.
some endogenous pyrogens includeinterleukin-1, tumor necrosis factor, interleukin-6, and interferon gamma.[2] the mechanism by which endogenous pyrogens actually induce fever is not fully understood.
thermometers with digital readouts and those that take the temperature quickly from the ear canal are especially useful for young children and older adults.
to suggest changes to this page, you must create an account on medpedia.
at  bedtime, use a sheet or light blanket.
the pathways appear to be complex and involve a number of other chemicals such as prostaglandin e2.[2] exogenous pyrogens are components of microorganisms that trigger an inflammatory response, which includes a fever.
instead,  dress in comfortable, light clothing and try bathing in lukewarm water.
in infants and children  younger than two years of age, these may be signs ofmeningitis, an infection  and inflammation of the membranes and fluid surrounding the brain and spinal  cord.
shivering actually raises the body's internal temperature (shaking muscles  generate heat).
some infants and children  develop fevers after receivingroutine immunizations, such as the diphtheria,  tetanus and acellular pertussis (dtap) or [[pneumococcal]] vaccines.
for fever above 104 °f (40 °c) use a five- to ten-minute sponge bath of lukewarm water to try to bring  the high temperature down.
adults may also use aspirin.
sometimes, older children can have a lower-than-normal temperature.
a fever almost never rises above 105.8 °f (41 °c) to 107.6 °f  (42 °c) in humans.[5] fever can be a side effect of some medications such as antibiotics and  drugs used to treathigh blood pressure or seizures.
because a fever can occur with many different conditions, other signs and symptoms can often help identify the cause.
sometimes additional tests are necessary to  confirm a diagnosis.
if the fever doesn't get better or the child has a febrile seizure, seek immediate medical care.
carefully insert the bulb one-half inch to one inch into the baby's  rectum.
depending on what's causing the fever, additional fever symptoms may include: very high fevers, from 103 °f (39.4 °c) to 106 °f (41.1 °c) and higher, may cause the following: a fever almost never rises above 105.8 °f (41 °c) to 107.6 °f (42 °c) in humans.[5] fever can be a side effect of some medications such as antibiotics and drugs used to treathigh blood pressure or seizures.
this  can happen to older children with severe damage to thenervous system, children  with a life-threatening bacterial infection in the blood (sepsis), and children  with a weakened immune system.
not all fevers need treatment with medications.[8]
these may includeblood tests and x-rays.
is older than three months of age and has a temperature of 102 °f  (38.8 °c) or higher.
try to note which part of the child's body begins to shake first.
what is normal for one individual may be a little higher or lower than the average temperature of98.6 °f (37 °c).
has a fever after being left in a very hot car.
a rectal temperature reading is generally 1 °f higher than an oral reading.
for viral infections, including stomach infection (gastroenteritis) and mononucleosis, the best treatment is often rest and plenty of fluids.
most fevers go away in a relatively short time (usually within a few days).
abstract | full text | pdf ↑ 3.0 3.1 mackowiak pa, wasserman ss, levine mm.
fever: blessing or curse?
wash the hands vigorously, covering both the front and back of each hand  with soap, and rinsing thoroughly under running water.
a fever usually means the body is responding to a viral or bacterial infection.
, has a severe headache or  stomachache, or has any other symptoms causing significant discomfort.
other recommendations for both older children and adults include the following: for fever below 102 °f (38.9 °c)
if a seizure occurs: lay the child on his or her side.
unusual eye sensitivity to bright light.
yet there are some circumstances when medical advice should be  obtained for infants, children, or adult as described below.
febrile seizures are often  triggered by a fever from a common childhood illness such asroseola, a viral  infection that causes a high fever, swollen glands and a rash.
try not to touch the nose, mouth oreyes, these are the main way viral infections are transmitted.
not all fevers need treatment with medications.[8] it's possible for fever  medications to have side effects, especially in young children.
references ↑ iups thermal commission.
for  viral infections, including stomach infection (gastroenteritis) and  mononucleosis, the best treatment is often rest and plenty of fluids.
shivering actually raises the body's internal temperature (shaking muscles generate heat).
therefore,  consultation with a physician may be necessary before administering fever  medication to small children.
the doctor may also make a recommendation about using over-the-counter  medications, such asacetaminophen (paracetamol, e.g. tylenol) or ibuprofen (e.g. advil, motrin) to lower a high fever.
abstract | full text | pdf ↑ klein nc, cunha ba.treatment of fever.
the doctor will likely diagnose the cause of the fever based on other  symptoms and a physical exam.
it's possible for fever medications to have side effects, especially in young children.
treatment most fevers go away in a relatively short time (usually within a few days).
it is not advisable to try to lower the body temperature before consulting  a physician (i.e. by taking a cold shower).
side effects of aspirin and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, such as ibuprofen, include stomach pain,  bleeding, and ulcers.
a slight fever can help the body get rid of such viruses.[4] self-care because the body loses more water with a fever, drink plenty of fluids to  avoid dehydration.
in addition, consult a physician immediately if any of these signs and  symptoms accompany a fever: severe headache.
although it's not the most accurate way to take a temperature, an oral thermometer may be used for an armpit (axillary) reading as follows: use a rectal thermometer for infants as follows: a rapid rise or fall in temperature may cause a fever-induced seizure febrile seizure in children younger than age 5.
this can  help the doctor understand the cause of the seizure.
a fever isn't necessarily bad.
fever's glass ceiling.
very young babies may not regulate their body  temperature well when they are ill and may become cold rather than hot.
sometimes additional tests are necessary to confirm a diagnosis.
however aspirin should not be used to treat a fever in children as it may trigger a rare, but potentially fatal, disorder known asreye syndrome.
if the fever doesn't get better or the child has a febrile  seizure, seek immediate medical care.
consult apediatrician (children's doctor) if the baby: is younger than three months of age and has a rectal temperature of 100.4  °f (38 °c) or higher.
stiff neck and pain when bending the head forward.
jun 15;120(12):1037-40.
the duration of the fever is more than three days.
that's because the  viruses that cause colds and other respiratory infections thrive at cool  temperatures.
avoid taking or administering too much medication.
when to seek medical attention fevers by themselves may not be a cause for alarm—or a reason to call  a doctor.
extreme listlessness or irritability.
infect dis clin north am .
a sponge bath is most likely to help if it's used  shortly after a dosage of acetaminophen or ibuprofen is taken, so that the  medication can work to keep the fever down after the bath takes effect.
however  aspirin should not be used to treat a fever in children as it may trigger a  rare, but potentially fatal, disorder known asreye syndrome.
these solutions contain water and salts in specific proportions to replenish both fluids andelectrolytes in children.
one of the most effective ways to do that is also one of the simplest, frequent hand washing.
has a fever and seems lethargic and unresponsive.
in fact, fevers seem to play a key role in helping the body fight off a number of infections.
an unexplained fever is a greater cause for concern in infants and children than in adults.
hold the bulb and the baby still for three minutes.
sep 28;158(17):1870-81.
try not to touch the nose, mouth oreyes, these are the main way viral  infections are transmitted.
medpedia is not a substitute for professional advice or expert medical  services from a qualified health professional.
there are currently no lead editors of this article.
antibiotics may be prescribed for bacterial infections, such aspneumonia or strep throat.
if a low-grade fever persists for three weeks or more, without other  symptoms, the doctor may recommend a variety of tests to help find the cause.
both  types of thermometers should be cleaned after use with alcohol or soap and warm  water.
therefore, consultation with a physician may be necessary before administering fever medication to small children.
it is lower in the morning and higher in the late afternoon and evening.
this can happen to older children with severe damage to thenervous system, children with a life-threatening bacterial infection in the blood (sepsis), and children with a weakened immune system.
for children consult a pediatrician if the child: is listless or irritable, vomits repeatedly
dehydration general weakness very high fevers, from 103 °f (39.4 °c) to 106 °f (41.1 °c)  and higher, may cause the following: hallucinations irritability convulsions fever-induced seizures (febrile seizures).
abdominal pain or pain when urinating.
abstract | full  text ↑ mackowiak pa, boulant ja.
in many cases, the rise in body temperature that occurs with a fever can be viewed as a beneficial response in the body's attempt to fight off infecting microorganisms.
sometimesheat exhaustion, extreme sunburn or certain inflammatory conditions such astemporal arteritis (inflammation of an artery in the head) may trigger fever as well.
if a seizure occurs: the best way to prevent fevers is to reduce exposure to infectious diseases.
one of the most effective ways to do that is also one of the  simplest, frequent hand washing.
abstract ↑ gaeta gb, fusco fm, nardiello s. fever of unknown origin: a  systematic review of the literature for 1995-2004.nucl med commun.
yet there are some circumstances when medical advice should be obtained for infants, children, or adult as described below.
if the body temperature is higher than 100.9 °f (38.3 °c) for more than three weeks and the doctor isn't able to find the cause after extensive evaluation, the diagnosis may befever of unknown origin.[6] [7] in most cases, though, the cause of the fever can be found and treated.
seek medical care  immediately.
although it's not the most accurate way to take a temperature, an oral  thermometer may be used for an armpit (axillary) reading as follows: place the thermometer in the armpit with arms crossed over the chest.
if a child shivers in the bath, stop the bath, dry the child and wait.
although most seizures stop on their own, call for emergency medical  assistance if a seizure lasts longer than 10 minutes.
what a fever could mean a fever usually means the body is responding to a viral or bacterial  infection.
but a rectal temperature higher than100.4 °f (38 °c) is usually always considered a fever.
the doctor will likely diagnose the cause of the fever based on other symptoms and a physical exam.
gently squirt the medicine in the back corners of the child's mouth.
water is a good choice for adults, but the best liquid for a  sick child under one year of age is an oral rehydration solution (such as pedialyte).
both types of thermometers should be cleaned after use with alcohol or soap and warm water.
is a newborn and has a lower than normal temperature—less than 97  °f (36.1 &degc).
the doctor may also make a recommendation about using over-the-counter medications, such asacetaminophen (paracetamol, e.g. tylenol) or ibuprofen (e.g. advil, motrin) to lower a high fever.
1996 mar;10(1):211-6.
even when an individual is healthy, the body temperature varies throughout the day.
that's because the viruses that cause colds and other respiratory infections thrive at cool temperatures.
if a low-grade fever persists for three weeks or more, without other symptoms, the doctor may recommend a variety of tests to help find the cause.
although alarming, the majority of febrile seizures cause no lasting effects.
for fever between 102 °f (38.9 °c) and 104 °f (40  °c) take acetaminophen or ibuprofen according to the label instructions or as  recommended by a doctor (adults may use aspirin instead).
don't give children aspirin because of the risk of reye syndrome.
a slight fever can help the body get rid of such viruses.[4] because the body loses more water with a fever, drink plenty of fluids to avoid dehydration.
they can be produced by one's owncells (endogenous pyrogens) or can result from exposure to a microorganism (exogenous pyrogens).
doing so may only prolong the  illness or mask underlying symptoms and make it harder to determine the cause.
difficulty breathing or chest pain.
some experts believe that aggressively treating a fever may actually  interfere with the body's ability to fight an infection.
because the contents of glassmercury thermometers harm both humans and  the environment, they are no longer recommended.
any other unexplained signs or symptoms.
for fever between 102 °f (38.9 °c) and 104 °f (40 °c) for fever above 104 °f (40 °c)
antibiotics may be  prescribed for bacterial infections, such aspneumonia or strep throat.
frequent washing of the hands, especially before eating, after using the  toilet, after spending time in a crowded public place, or after petting  animals, can minimize exposure to bacteria or viruses that can result in fever.
frequent washing of the hands, especially before eating, after using the toilet, after spending time in a crowded public place, or after petting animals, can minimize exposure to bacteria or viruses that can result in fever.
acetaminophen is available in liquid, chewable, and suppository forms for  children, but it's often easiest to give medications in liquid form.
sometimes it's not possible to identify the cause of a fever.
in rare instances, a malignanttumor or some forms of  kidney cancer may cause a fever.
fevers by themselves may not be a cause for alarm—or a reason to call a doctor.
categories: fever | body temperature changes | signs and  symptoms | pathological conditions, signs and symptoms | diseases the  content on or accessible through medpedia.com is for informational purposes  only.
complications a rapid rise or fall in temperature may cause a fever-induced seizure  febrile seizure in children younger than age 5.
carry hand-washing  towelettes for times when access to soap and water is not available.
medical treatment depends on the cause of the fever.
arch intern med. 1998
wait four to five minutes.
thus, the mechanisms of fever may have developed as an evolutionary response to infecting microbes.[4] pyrogens are substances that can cause a fever.
when the temperature regulating system is exposed to pyrogens, the body increases heat production mainly by shivering.
may trigger fever as well.
people with fever should get plenty of rest.
some experts believe that aggressively treating a fever may actually interfere with the body's ability to fight an infection.
some infants and children develop fevers after receivingroutine immunizations, such as the diphtheria, tetanus and acellular pertussis (dtap) or [[pneumococcal]] vaccines.
1996 mar;22(3):525-36.
severe swelling of the throat.
is younger than two years of age and has a fever that persists for longer  than one day, or longer than three days in a child two years of age or older.
has special medical circumstances, such as immune system problems or a  pre-existing illness.
in a situation where fever occurs, substances in the body calledpyrogens, discussed below, alter the activity of the regulatory system so that the body's temperature rises to a higher degree before cooling mechanisms are activated.
in newborns, non-shivering mechanisms are involved in increased heat production.
a critical appraisal  of 98.6 degrees f, the upper limit of the normal body temperature, and other  legacies of carl reinhold august wunderlich.