blogs your opinion on you, me and everyone.
7 kindness shown for msm woman 1 be a parent, not a friend 2 10 signs of a one-night stand 3
blog - healthy eating - editors blog - hiv peer forum - harmony - man talk - fitnessed blog - parenting chatline - healthed blog - pregnancy chatline - my fitness adventure - step parenting support - supergirl 101 - see all forums - see all blogs - tests & tools - anaemia tool - blood-alcohol test - bmi calculator - burn-o-meter - calorie counter - cost of smoking tool - detox tool - endurance step test - flexibility test - glycaemic index tool - graphics/slide shows - grocery tool - how to measure height - life expectancy tool - memory quiz - quizzes - reminders - stool tool - see all tests & tools - medical schemes - overview - selfmed - get a selfmed quote - momentum health - get a momentum health quote - win!
advertisement - news24.com home - blogs - olx classifieds - 24.com sites
do not  use/give in higher doses or more frequently than directed.
- relationships - sex aids - sex and your child - sexual diversity - sexual myths - sexual obstacles - sexologist - stis and safer sex - tips & techniques - experts - add/adhd expert - addictions experts - anti-ageing expert - chirodoc - cyberdoc - cybershrink - cybervet - dental expert - diabetes expert - dietdoc - eating disorders expert - ent expert - fertility expert - fitnessdoc - gynaedoc - headache expert - healthy bones - hearing care - natural health - paediatrician - pharmacist - sexologist - sleep expert - sports nutrition - teen expert - travel expert - vital vitamin expert - orthopaedic expert - see all experts - community - adhd support - dieted
dehydration, overexertion, mosquito bites, bee stings, allergic or toxic reactions and viral or bacterial infections are just a few.
in an adult, the level of fever generally reflects the severity of the illness causing it.
when to call the doctor - when a newborn has an elevated (or low) temperature.
ibuprofen is available in liquid or  pill form.
dr elna mcintosh answers a few crucial questions.
previously reviewed by prof helmuth reuter, university of stellenbosch  and tygerberg academic hospital reviewed by prof e weinberg, emeritus professor of paediatrics, may 2011 .
- pet food worth r1500 sunglasses & r1000 gym contract of r6000 condition centres acne adhd allergy alzheimer's anaesthesia asthma backache breast cancer cervical cancer cholera cholesterol copd cough diabetes hearing management depression digestive health enviro health epilepsy erectile dysfunction eye feet first aid flu genetics genital warts headache & migraine heart heartburn hiv/aids hypertension arthritis kidney & bladder problems leg health malaria medical schemes menopause oral health osteoporosis pain palliative care prostate sinusitis skin sleep stop smoking stroke travel health stress tuberculosis menstruation diseases a to z symptoms tests & procedures medication first aid focus centres afrikaans contraception healthy workplace heart transplants pet health street drugs research sun health and your money head 2 toe general skin head chest abdomen legs & feet children meds & you using medicines generics antibiotics inside the lab weekly poll online dating: is dangerous is the way of the future is only for desperate people i met my partner online makes it easy to meet a date general newsletter sign up for our general newsletter to get all the latest health news you are in >
be sure to take the medication with  food to prevent irritation of the stomach.
print in this article definition the function of a fever causes treatment medically related symptoms diseases medications procedures none listed none listed none listed none listed definition normal body temperature, when measured by an oral thermometer, is between 36.5°c and 37°c.
do notgive aspirin to a child with a fever.
many fevers are caused by viral infections, and the combination of aspirin and viral illness has been linked to the development of reye's syndrome, a progressive and very dangerous liver disease.
- for a temperature of above 40°c, bathe or sponge the skin with lukewarm water (not cold water).
treatment paracetamol (found in panado, calpol and other over-the-counter medications) is a drug that helps to lower fever.
home treatment - administer paracetamol to reduce a fever of 40°c or higher.
paracetamol is also an analgesic (pain reliever), so it eases the discomfort and body aches that often accompany fever.
you are said to be suffering from a fever if your body temperature is over 37°c (37.8°c or more when measured rectally).
advertisement note: in excessive amounts, this drug can cause liver damage.
home treatment administer paracetamol to reduce a fever of 40°c or higher.
- beverages - boost your immunity - diabetic diet - dietdoc - diet detective - eating plans - eating throughout life - food as medicine - glycaemic index (gi) - healthy diets - healthy foods - probiotics - top 10 foods - water centre - weight loss - vitamins/minerals guide - fitness - overview - bmi calculator - cardio - cycling - dancing - exercise how-to's - fitnessdoc - fitness videos - gear & equipment - get started!
medical > symptoms fever last updated: monday, june 06, 2011
treatment paracetamol (found in  panado, calpol and other over-the-counter  medications) is a drug that helps to lower fever.
wheels24 women24 - subscribe to our newsletters - win!
many fevers are  caused by viral infections, and the combination of aspirin and viral illness  has been linked to the development of reye's syndrome, a progressive and very  dangerous liver disease.
you are said to be suffering from a fever if your body  temperature is over 37°c (37.8°c or more when measured rectally).
choosing the right daycare 5 beware of ocean stingers 6 weight gain in pregnancy 7 7 ways your child can be smart diet 1 meds that cause weight gain 2 how to lose weight the smart way 3 do you eat to make others happy?
when the sufferer has fever and shows signs of febrile seizures: muscles  throughout the entire body stiffen, eyes may roll, your child's head may jerk,  hands and/or feet may tap, and loss of bowel and urine control may occur.
it is available in liquid or pill form, as well as in suppository form for infants.
- osteoporosis - pain - pms - prostate - sinusitis - sleep problems - sti - stress - stroke - see all conditions - your body - anaemia - athlete's foot - bedwetting - bladder infection - burns - cellulite - cold sores - colic - constipation - cough - cuts & wounds - dandruff - dehydration - diarrhoea - dry skin - dysmenorrhoea - earache - endometriosis - eczema - fatigue - female infertility - female organ prolapse - fever - gout - haemorrhoids - hair loss for men - hair loss for women - hangover - head lice - heavy uterine bleeding - insect bites - ibs - itching - nappy rash - nausea & vomiting - oab - overactive thryroid - pms - psoriasis - restless leg syndrome - ringworm - rosacea - scabies - sore throat
it is available in liquid or pill form, as well as in  suppository form for infants.
all rights reserved legal notice | advertise on health24 | contact us | take a tour this site complies with the honcode standard for trustworthy health information:verify here.
remain at home and rest.
if the sufferer is a child under six months of age.
- competitions - previous winners
8 how to survive a bee swarm 9 pouring on the pounds 10 why many men like porn best rated 1 why many men like porn 2 10 dangers to any marriage 3 eradicate racism: 'kill the whites' 4 discovery: a gp's 8 questions 5 quit smoking and stay slim 6 which dogs are likely to bite?
an elevated temperature also increases the production of infection-fighting white blood cells and even increases their speed of response and enhances their killing capacity.
go to symptoms page post a question to an expert   | share with a friend save up to 30% on your  healthcare each month save with selfmed in 2012
- remain at home and rest.
be sure to take the medication with food to prevent irritation of the stomach.
go to symptoms page post a question to an expert | share with a friend save up to 30% on your healthcare each month save with selfmed in 2012
as a result, signs other than a fever - poor appetite, lethargy and irritability - may be earlier indicators of an infection and are more helpful than temperature in assessing a newborn's condition.
rss feeds news delivered really simply.
child 1 corporal punishment debate 2
- health news - latest news - special reports - columnists - events - experts - press office: selfmed - conditions a-z - acne - adhd - allergies - alzheimer's - arthritis - asthma - backache - breast health - cancer - cervical cancer - cholesterol - copd - cough - depression - diabetes - digestive health - epilepsy - erectile dysfunction - eye health - feet - flu & colds - headache & migraine - hearing problems - heart health - heartburn - hiv/aids - hypertension - leg health - malaria - menopause - oral health
blogs view our health blogs head chest abdomen pelvis legs skin general most read 1 discovery: chronic meds shock 2 chronic meds: discovery responds 3 8 hard-hitting anti-obesity ads 4 wound-care breakthrough at uct 5 facebook vs. your marriage 6 14 tips on what to feed your dog 7 tips on spotting online predators 8 4 bizarre body facts 9 pancreatic cancer 10 fruits a - z most commented 1 discovery health: chronic meds shock 2 discovery chronic meds: the changes 3 chronic meds: discovery health's response 4 discovery: a gp's 8 questions 5 lucky luke and the smoke nazis 6 what skin colour means 7 squaringforafight?
ancestry24 jobs channel24 fin24 food24 free games gotravel24 health24 kalahari.com mobile news24 nuus24 parent24
paracetamol is also an  analgesic (pain reliever), so it eases the discomfort and body aches that often  accompany fever.
7 12 cool cat facts 8 i fink you're fried in the head 9 lucky luke and the smoke nazis 10 10 interesting vegetarian facts man 1 be healthy at work 2 homicide not a top cause of death 3 fear of flying 4 caravan park blues 5 6 tips for safe hiking 6 losing your hair, grandpa?
follow dosage directions on the product label.
choosing the right sports bra 4 the crossfit challenge 5 kick-start your fitness plan 6 10 exercise motivators 7 super cool water workouts email newsletters you choose what you want.
a fever of unknown origin (fuo) is a condition defined as an elevated temperature lasting for three weeks or more without an identifiable cause.
4 green tea drinkers age better 5 a healthy diet for older people 6 10 great weight loss winners 7 quiz: are you ready for weight loss?
in a child, however, this is not necessarily the case.
the function of a fever
rate this article poor excellent share this page yahoo google digg del.icio.us facebook subscribe to the general newsletter advertisement get a quote looking for a medical scheme?
get a quote today selfmed med aid omentum health sponsored links
none listed none listed none listed none listed definition normal body temperature, when measured by an oral thermometer, is between  36.5°c and 37°c.
be  careful not to exceed the correct dosage for your child's age and size.
it is very important to maintain fluid balance, so drink plenty of water  or fruit juices.
do not use/give in higher doses or more frequently than directed.
ibuprofen (nurofen and others) is another fever-reducing medication that  relieves mild to moderate aches and pains.
dehydration,  overexertion, mosquito bites, bee stings, allergic or toxic reactions and viral  or bacterial infections are just a few.
choosing contraception 7 friendship past its prime?
- how we get fit - in the gym - life stages - nutrition - rugby - running - specific sports - sports injuries - stretching - workout programmes - yoga - sex - overview - abuse - alternative practices - body basics - contraception - gay, lesbian & bisexual - gourmet sex - graphics
as  a result, signs other than a fever - poor appetite, lethargy and irritability -  may be earlier indicators of an infection and are more helpful than temperature  in assessing a newborn's condition.
a child with a mild cold may have a temperature of 40°c, while a child with a serious illness - bacterial pneumonia, for example - may have a temperature lower than that.
when to call the doctor when a newborn has an elevated (or low) temperature.
selfmed med aid spec-savers love 2 meet omentum health ask an expert do you need expert advice?
toddlers don't listen to their own voice 3 mom's love good for child's brain 4
when the sufferer has fever and shows signs of febrile seizures: muscles throughout the entire body stiffen, eyes may roll, your child's head may jerk, hands and/or feet may tap, and loss of bowel and urine control may occur.
be careful not to exceed the correct dosage for your child's age and size.
- remove extra layers of clothing.
a  child with a mild cold may have a temperature of 40°c, while a child with a  serious illness - bacterial pneumonia, for example - may have a temperature  lower than that.
an elevated temperature also increases the  production of infection-fighting white blood cells and even increases their  speed of response and enhances their killing capacity.
property24 sport24 weather24
4 period pain and pms 5 single on v-day?
in an adult, the level of fever generally reflects the severity of the  illness causing it.
a fever of unknown origin (fuo) is a  condition defined as an elevated temperature lasting for three weeks or more  without an identifiable cause.
ibuprofen is available in liquid or pill form.
© health24 2000-2012.
when the fever is accompanied by a stiff neck, confusion, lack of energy,  difficulty in awakening or inconsolability.
fitness 101 your absolute guide to a healther, slimmer, fitter you.
- it is very important to maintain fluid balance, so drink plenty of water or fruit juices.
since viruses and bacteria do  not survive as well in a body with an elevated temperature, fever is actually  an ally in fighting infection.
fitness 1 20 proven benefits of fitness 2 bikram yoga 3
when the fever is accompanied by a stiff neck, confusion, lack of energy, difficulty in awakening or inconsolability.
previously reviewed by prof helmuth reuter, university of stellenbosch and tygerberg academic hospital reviewed by prof e weinberg, emeritus professor of paediatrics, may 2011 .
remove extra layers of clothing.
causes a fever can be caused by a wide variety of factors.
since viruses and bacteria do not survive as well in a body with an elevated temperature, fever is actually an ally in fighting infection.
in the majority of cases, a fever is the body's natural reaction to an acute viral or bacterial infection and is not necessarily considered a dangerous condition in itself.
ibuprofen (nurofen and others) is another fever-reducing medication that relieves mild to moderate aches and pains.
evaporation will have a cooling effect.
for a temperature of above 40°c, bathe or sponge the skin with  lukewarm water (not cold water).
a guide to safe oral sex is oral sex safe?
- teething - urinary incontinence - vaginal infections - warts - worms - see more - focus - afrikaans - contraception - environmental - first aid techniques - healthy home - healthy workplace - meds & you - medical money - menstruation - oral health - pet health - skin centre - stop smoking - street drugs - sun - the amazing brain - travel health - lifestyle - anti-ageing - detox - men's health - mental health - natural health - parenting - pregnancy - skin care - stress - teens - women's health - diet & nutrition - overview - are you overweight?
rather, a fever is a sign that the body is defending itself against the infectious invader.
in the majority of cases, a fever is the body's natural reaction to an  acute viral or bacterial infection and is not necessarily considered a  dangerous condition in itself.
rather, a fever is a sign that the body is  defending itself against the infectious invader.
in a newborn, the body's temperature control is not yet well developed.