healthwise  disclaims any warranty or liability for your use of this information.
this includes vitamins, minerals, herbal products, and drugs prescribed by other doctors.
stop using this medication and call your doctor at once if you have any symptoms of bleeding in your stomach or intestines.
what should i discuss with my health care provider before taking  acetaminophen and aspirin?
symptoms include black, bloody, or tarry stools, and coughing up blood or vomit that looks like coffee grounds.
it can increase the risk of stomach bleeding or liver damage  while you are taking acetaminophen and aspirin.
what happens if i overdose?
you may report side effects to  fda at 1-800-fda-1088.
organizational structure - magnet force 3: management style - magnet force 4: personnel policies and programs - magnet force 5: professional models of care - magnet force 6: quality of care - magnet force 7: quality improvement - magnet force 8: consultation and resources - magnet force 9: autonomy - magnet force 10: community and the healthcare organization - magnet force 11: nurses as teachers - magnet force 12: image of nursing - magnet force 13: interdisciplinary relationships - magnet force 14: professional development - nursing photo gallery - testimonials from our nurses - awards and recognition - board-certified nurses - careers in nursing - education and resources - 2011 summer nursing camp - volunteering - about volunteering at swedish covenant hospital - how to become a volunteer - volunteer requirements - volunteer opportunities - volunteer benefits - volunteer guidelines and responsibilities - volunteer testimonials - volunteer news secondary menu - about us - your visit to sch - for physicians - media center - health library - my health space you are here:
aspirin can cause harm to an  unborn baby or problems with childbirth if you take the medicine during the  last 3 months of pregnancy.
where can i get more information?
multum's drug information is an informational resource designed to assist licensed healthcare practitioners in caring for their patients and/or to serve consumers viewing this service as a supplement to, and not a substitute for, the expertise, skill, knowledge and judgment of healthcare practitioners.
get  emergency medical help if you have any of thesesigns of an allergic reaction: hives; difficulty breathing; swelling of your face, lips, tongue, or  throat.
acetaminophen (sometimes abbreviated as "apap")  and aspirin are contained in many combination medicines.
choosing your child's physician - why are "well-child" exams important?
what are the possible side effects of acetaminophen and aspirin?
acetaminophen and aspirin may also be used for other purposes not listed in this medication guide.
call your  doctor for medical advice about side effects.
the absence of a warning for a given drug  or drug combination in no way should be construed to indicate that the drug or  drug combination is safe, effective or appropriate for any given patient.
multum does not assume any responsibility for any aspect of healthcare  administered with the aid of information multum provides.
an overdose of acetaminophen  and aspirin can cause serious harm.
you may report side effects to fda at 1-800-fda-1088.
aspirin can cause a serious and sometimes fatal condition called reye's syndrome in children.
do not use the medication in larger or smaller amounts, or use it for longer than recommended.
brand: excedrin back & body what is the most important information i should know about acetaminophen  and aspirin?
if you have certain conditions, you may need a dose adjustment or special  tests to safely take this medication.
multum does not assume any responsibility for any aspect of healthcare administered with the aid of information multum provides.
do not use the medication in larger or smaller  amounts, or use it for longer than recommended.
what other drugs will affect acetaminophen and aspirin?
do not take more than 8 tablets in 24 hours unless your doctor has told you  to.
revision date:  11/17/2009.
aspirin can cause a serious and sometimes fatal  condition called reye's syndrome in children.
tell your doctor about all the prescription and  over-the-counter medications you use.
acetaminophen  and aspirin may pass into breast milk and could harm a nursing baby.
acetaminophen is a pain reliever and fever reducer.
do not use any other pain, headache, cold, or sleep  medication without first asking your doctor or pharmacist.
ask a doctor or pharmacist about using acetaminophen and aspirin if you have: do not use this medication without telling your doctor if you are pregnant.
if you take certain products together you may accidentally take too much of a certain drug.
if you have questions about the drugs you are taking, check with your  doctor, nurse or pharmacist.
use this medication exactly as directed on the label, or as it has been  prescribed by your doctor.
your use of the content provided in this service indicates that  you have read, understood and agree to the end-user license agreement, which  can be accessed byclicking on this link.
stop using this medication and call your doctor at once if you have any  symptoms of bleeding in your stomach or intestines.
ask a doctor or pharmacist about using  acetaminophen and aspirin if you have: asthma; a recent history of stomach or intestinal bleeding; stomach ulcer or history of heartburn or ongoing indigestion or stomach  pain; a bleeding or blood clotting disorder; or liver disease (including cirrhosis).
multum information has been compiled for use by healthcare  practitioners and consumers in the united states and therefore multum does not  warrant that uses outside of the united states are appropriate, unless  specifically indicated otherwise.
swedish covenant hospital
top of page this information does not replace the advice of a doctor.
definitions - wound care frequently asked questions - location and contact - events & classes - careers - employment opportunities - physician opportunities - benefits - health - time - knowledge - spirit - money - lifeworks program - residency programs - residency opportunities - family medicine residency program - osteopathic internal medicine residency program - traditional rotating internship - salary and benefits - requirements and contracts - residency photo gallery - medical students - testimonials from our residents - meet our current residents - nursing - journey to magnet excellence - magnet force 1: quality of nursing leadership - magnet force 2:
read  the label of any other medicine you are using to see if it contains  acetaminophen, apap, or aspirin.
stop using this medication and call your doctor at once if  you have any of these serious side effects: fast, pounding, or uneven heartbeat; easy bruising or bleeding, unusual weakness, fever, chills, body aches,  flu symptoms; black, bloody, or tarry stools; coughing up blood or vomit that looks like coffee grounds; nausea, stomach pain, low fever, loss of appetite, dark urine,  clay-colored stools, jaundice (yellowing of the skin or eyes); fever lasting longer than 3 days; swelling, or pain lasting longer than 10 days; redness, swelling, or other signs of infection; or hearing loss.
avoid  drinking alcohol.
if you take certain products together you may  accidentally take too much of a certain drug.
do not use  extra medicine to make up the missed dose.
do not use this medication if you are allergic  to acetaminophen (tylenol) or aspirin, or if you are using any other products  that contain acetaminophen.
an overdose of this medication can cause serious harm.
the information contained herein is not intended to cover all possible uses, directions, precautions, warnings, drug interactions, allergic reactions, or adverse effects.
since acetaminophen and aspirin is often used as needed, you may not be on  a dosing schedule.
you may need to stop using the medicine for a short time.
use an effective form of birth control, and tell  your doctor if you become pregnant during treatment.
this medicine should not be given to  a child or teenager who has a fever, especially if the child also has flu  symptoms or chicken pox.
do not take more of this medication than is recommended.
your use  of this information means that you agree to theterms of use.
your pharmacist has information about acetaminophen and aspirin.
what should i discuss with my health care provider before taking acetaminophen and aspirin?
pronunciation: a seet oh min
do not use  any other pain, headache, cold, or sleep medication without first asking your  doctor or pharmacist.
less serious side effects may include: - upset stomach, heartburn; - drowsiness; or - ringing in your ears.
if you are using the medication regularly, take the missed  dose as soon as you remember.
if you have questions about the drugs you are taking, check with your doctor, nurse or pharmacist.
seek emergency medical attention if you think you have used too much of this medicine.
the combination of acetaminophen and aspirin is used to treat minor arthritis pain, back pain, and muscle aches.
if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and wait until your next regularly scheduled dose.
acetaminophen and aspirin may pass into breast milk and could harm a nursing baby.
this list is not complete and there may be other drugs that can interact  with acetaminophen and aspirin.
this medicine should not be given to a  child or teenager who has a fever, especially if the child also has flu  symptoms or chicken pox.
an overdose of acetaminophen and aspirin can cause serious harm.
- asthma; - a recent history of stomach or intestinal bleeding; - stomach ulcer or history of heartburn or ongoing indigestion or stomach pain; - a bleeding or blood clotting disorder; or - liver disease (including cirrhosis).
what happens if i miss a dose?
the combination of acetaminophen and aspirin is used to treat minor  arthritis pain, back pain, and muscle aches.
use an effective form of birth control, and tell your doctor if you become pregnant during treatment.
overdose can cause ringing in your ears, dizziness, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, stomach pain, loss of appetite, yellowing of your skin or eyes, increased sweating, confusion, hallucinations, rapid breathing, seizure (convulsions), or coma.
this includes vitamins, minerals, herbal  products, and drugs prescribed by other doctors.
if you need to have any type of surgery, tell the surgeon ahead of time  that you are taking aspirin.
avoid drinking alcohol.
aspirin is in a group of drugs called salicylates (sa-lis-il-ates).
resources - childbirth - childbirth services - family birthing center - midwifery services - technology - resources and faq’s - childbirth classes - preregistration information - dermatology - emergency services - services - resources and faqs - family health - family health services - family practice center - pediatric services - affordable pre-natal and pediatric services - emergency situations - diabetes community center - medical nutrition counseling - adolescent programs - resources and faqs
if you need to have any type of surgery, tell the surgeon ahead of time that you are taking aspirin.
if you drink more than 3 alcoholic beverages per day, do not take acetaminophen without your doctor's advice.
less serious side effects may include: upset stomach, heartburn; drowsiness; or ringing in your ears.
drug information contained herein may be time  sensitive.
healthwise disclaims any warranty or liability for your use of this information.
revision date: 11/17/2009.
this list is not complete and there may be other drugs that can interact with acetaminophen and aspirin.
if you drink more than 3  alcoholic beverages per day, do not take acetaminophen without your doctor's  advice.
the absence of a warning for a given drug or drug combination in no way should be construed to indicate that the drug or drug combination is safe, effective or appropriate for any given patient.
if you  drink more than 3 alcoholic beverages per day, do not take acetaminophen  without your doctor's advice.
do not give this medicine to a child younger than 12 years old  without the advice of a doctor.
multum's drug information does not endorse  drugs, diagnose patients or recommend therapy.
do not use this medication if you are allergic to acetaminophen (tylenol) or aspirin, or if you are using any other products that contain acetaminophen.
do not start using a new medication without telling your doctor.
tell your doctor about all the prescription and over-the-counter medications you use.
before taking aspirin, tell your doctor if you are using any of the following drugs: - a blood thinner such as warfarin (coumadin); - medications for treating diabetes; - gout medications such as probenecid (benemid); - another salicylate such as choline salicylate and/or magnesium salicylate (magan, doan's, bayer select backache pain formula, mobidin, arthropan, trilisate, tricosal), or salsalate (disalcid); or - an nsaid (non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug) such as ibuprofen (motrin, advil), diclofenac (voltaren), diflunisal (dolobid), etodolac (lodine), flurbiprofen (ansaid), indomethacin (indocin), ketoprofen (orudis), ketorolac (toradol), mefenamic acid (ponstel), meloxicam (mobic), nabumetone (relafen), naproxen (aleve, naprosyn), piroxicam (feldene), and others.
brand: excedrin back & body what is the most important information i should know about acetaminophen and aspirin?
multum's drug information does not endorse drugs, diagnose patients or recommend therapy.
read the label of any other medicine you are using to see if it contains acetaminophen, apap, or aspirin.
if you are using the medication regularly, take the missed dose as soon as you remember.
stop using this medication and call your doctor at once if you have any of these serious side effects: - fast, pounding, or uneven heartbeat; - easy bruising or bleeding, unusual weakness, fever, chills, body aches, flu symptoms; - black, bloody, or tarry stools; - coughing up blood or vomit that looks like coffee grounds; - nausea, stomach pain, low fever, loss of appetite, dark urine, clay-colored stools, jaundice (yellowing of the skin or eyes); - fever lasting longer than 3 days; - swelling, or pain lasting longer than 10 days; - redness, swelling, or other signs of infection; or - hearing loss.
acetaminophen (sometimes abbreviated as "apap") and aspirin are contained in many combination medicines.
this is not a complete list of side effects and others may occur.
do not use extra medicine to make up the missed dose.
take this medication with a full glass  of water.
do not use this medication without telling your doctor if you are breast-feeding a baby.
store acetaminophen and aspirin at room temperature away from  moisture and heat.
- swedish covenant hospital -
do not give this medicine to a child younger than 12 years old without the advice of a doctor.
every effort has been made to ensure that the information provided by cerner multum, inc. ('multum') is accurate, up-to-date, and complete, but no guarantee is made to that effect.
do not use  this medication without telling your doctor if you are breast-feeding a baby.
well community - mobile version - swedish covenant medical group - galter lifecenter skip to main content main menu - find a doc - medical services - cancer services - cancer services - screening and diagnostics - mammogram availability - breast health program - treatment options - support and rehabilitation services - specialties - breast cancer - colon cancer - liver cancer - prostate cancer - technology - imrt delivers radiation with pinpoint precision - resources and faqs - guidelines for yearly cancer screenings - cancer services publications - patient and family support services - screening events and community-based programs - myths and misunderstandings on breast cancer - philosophy of care - accreditations and awards - swedish covenant hospital nurse recognized as 2008 yoplait champion - cardiology and heart services - cardiac services - cardiac testing - cardiac treatment - cardiac rehabilitation - pulmonary rehabilitation - cardiac facilities - philosophy of care - chicago back institute - chicago back institute overview - back pain treatments - minimally invasive herniated disk procedures - si joint stabilization - team of clinicians - philosophy of care - chicago back institute location and contact - chicago back institute in our community - spine and back
take this medication with a full glass of water.
when pediatric hospitalization is necessary - common questions on childhood asthma - discover the fact and fiction behind many popular home remedies - all kids, familycare and moms and babies - health care and services at home - services - home health care - housecalls: mobile medical program - team of clinicians - meet the home health care team - meet the housecalls medical director and nurse practitioners - resources and faqs - home health care faqs - housecalls frequently asked questions - education and services for care givers - education and services for patients - location and contact - home health care contact information and service area - housecalls contact information and service area - philosophy of care - laboratory and blood work - mental health services - mental health services - psychological services - psychiatric services - team of clinicians - midwifery - services - team of clinicians - resources and faq's - location and contact - philosophy of care - ophthalmology (eye health) - orthopedic program - orthopedic program overview - orthopedic services and treatments - joint replacement program - resources and faqs - articles by dr. levi: cartilage injuries - miniminally invasive hip surgery - unique orthopedic offerings - physical therapy and rehabilitation - physicians - location and contact - pain management - pain management services - conditions treated with pain management - pain management procedures - lidocaine infusions - team of clinicians - resources and faqs - scheduling your appointment - preparing for your appointment - performance outcomes - pediatrics - well-child exams - team of clinicians - resources and faqs - preparing for your child’s appointment - common health advice for parents - prenatal visit faqs - new born guide - other health resources - baby 411 - location and contact - philosophy of care - physical therapy - post-hospital services - resources and faqs - nursing home evaluation checklists - living in a nursing home: myths and realities - skilled nursing facility and other resources - pulmonary rehabilitation - radiology services - radiology services - interventional radiology - uterine fibroid embolization - vertebroplasty: advanced treatment for osteoporosis - bone density screening - cardiac scoring - technology - mri technology - ct technology - rehabilitation services - physical therapy - specialty programs - occupational therapy - speech-language pathology - work conditioning - resources and faq’s - balance center - primary stroke center certification - sleep and neurodiagnostic center - services - overnight sleep studies - treatment options - resources and faqs - surgical services - surgical procedures - robotic surgery - da vinci si robotic surgery system - benefits of the da vinci si robotic surgery system - our expert surgeons - how to schedule a robotic surgery appointment - resources and faq’s
how should i take acetaminophen and aspirin?
do not take more than 8 tablets in 24 hours unless your doctor has told you to.
do not start using a new  medication without telling your doctor.
home » health library health library acetaminophen and aspirin acetaminophen and aspirin pronunciation: a seet oh min
since acetaminophen and aspirin is often used as needed, you may not be on a dosing schedule.
call your doctor for medical advice about side effects.
if you take certain  products together you may accidentally take too much of a certain drug.
an overdose of this medication  can cause serious harm.
overdose can cause ringing in your ears, dizziness, nausea, vomiting,  diarrhea, stomach pain, loss of appetite, yellowing of your skin or eyes,  increased sweating, confusion, hallucinations, rapid breathing, seizure  (convulsions), or coma.
symptoms include black,  bloody, or tarry stools, and coughing up blood or vomit that looks like coffee  grounds.
before taking aspirin, tell your doctor if you are using any of the  following drugs: a blood thinner such as warfarin (coumadin); medications for treating diabetes; gout medications such as probenecid (benemid); another salicylate such as choline salicylate and/or magnesium salicylate  (magan, doan's, bayer select backache pain formula, mobidin, arthropan,  trilisate, tricosal), or salsalate (disalcid); or an nsaid (non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug) such as ibuprofen (motrin,  advil), diclofenac (voltaren), diflunisal (dolobid), etodolac (lodine),  flurbiprofen (ansaid), indomethacin (indocin), ketoprofen (orudis), ketorolac  (toradol), mefenamic acid (ponstel), meloxicam (mobic), nabumetone (relafen),  naproxen (aleve, naprosyn), piroxicam (feldene), and others.
store acetaminophen and aspirin at room temperature away from moisture and heat.
- a growing problem: obesity in kids -
get emergency medical help if you have any of thesesigns of an allergic reaction: hives; difficulty breathing; swelling of your face, lips, tongue, or throat.
multum information has been compiled for use by healthcare practitioners and consumers in the united states and therefore multum does not warrant that uses outside of the united states are appropriate, unless specifically indicated otherwise.
what should i avoid while taking acetaminophen and aspirin?
remember, keep this and all other medicines out of the reach of  children, never share your medicines with others, and use this medication only  for the indication prescribed.
if you have certain conditions, you may need a dose adjustment or special tests to safely take this medication.
your use of this information means that you agree to theterms of use.
what is acetaminophen and aspirin?
if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the  missed dose and wait until your next regularly scheduled dose.
- our patient stories - vascular services - vascular services - vascular disease risk factors - treating vascular problems - vascular screenings - vital screening package - online assessment - weight management - weight management services - weight management comprehensive evaluation - weight management surgical options - weight management non-surgical options - team of clinicians - weight management resources and faqs - location and contact - our patient stories - obesity win means fewer medications, more happiness for mom - women's health - women's health services - ob/gyn practice - family birthing center - breast health - incontinence and pelvic pain - treatments - surgical options - menopause - osteoporosis - team of clinicians - resources and faq’s - embracing menopause: preparing for a healthy transition - tips for a great mammogram - wound care center - wound care services - wound care procedures and treatments - prevention and home treatment techniques - wound care center team of clinicians - wound care center resources and faqs - preparing for your visit - wound care
use this medication exactly as directed on the label, or as it has been prescribed by your doctor.
- © 2011 swedish covenant hospital - contact us - site map - copyright and legal - vendor compliance - privacy statement - spanish (pdf) - korean (pdf) - russian (pdf) 5145 n california avenue, chicago, illinois 60625 773.878.8200
do not use this medication  without telling your doctor if you are pregnant.
read the label of any other  medicine you are using to see if it contains acetaminophen, apap, or aspirin.
drug information contained herein may be time sensitive.
an  overdose of acetaminophen can cause damage to your liver.
aspirin can cause harm to an unborn baby or problems with childbirth if you take the medicine during the last 3 months of pregnancy.
multum's drug information is an  informational resource designed to assist licensed healthcare practitioners in  caring for their patients and/or to serve consumers viewing this service as a  supplement to, and not a substitute for, the expertise, skill, knowledge and  judgment of healthcare practitioners.
acetaminophen  (sometimes abbreviated as "apap") and aspirin are contained in many  combination medicines.
it works by reducing substances in the body that cause pain, fever, and inflammation.
how this information was developed to help you make better health decisions.
the information  contained herein is not intended to cover all possible uses, directions,  precautions, warnings, drug interactions, allergic reactions, or adverse  effects.
an overdose of acetaminophen can cause damage to your liver.
your use of the content provided in this service indicates that you have read, understood and agree to the end-user license agreement, which can be accessed byclicking on this link.
do not use any other pain, headache, cold, or sleep medication without first asking your doctor or pharmacist.
it can increase the risk of stomach bleeding or liver damage while you are taking acetaminophen and aspirin.
every effort has been made to ensure that the information provided by  cerner multum, inc. ('multum') is accurate, up-to-date, and complete, but no  guarantee is made to that effect.
this medicine should not be given to a child or teenager who has a fever, especially if the child also has flu symptoms or chicken pox.
it  works by reducing substances in the body that cause pain, fever, and  inflammation.
this information does not replace the advice of a doctor.
seek emergency medical attention if you  think you have used too much of this medicine.
acetaminophen and aspirin may also be used for other purposes not listed in  this medication guide.
remember, keep this and all other medicines out of the reach of children, never share your medicines with others, and use this medication only for the indication prescribed.
you may need to stop using the medicine for a  short time.
copyright 1996-2010 cerner multum, inc.
it can increase the risk of stomach  bleeding or liver damage while you are taking acetaminophen and aspirin.