low back pain accounts for significant losses in workdays and dollars.
spinal fusion is surgery to fuse spine bones (vertebrae) that cause you to have back problems.
there is currently no  evidence that any of these less-invasive procedures are as effective as the  standard microdiskectomy.
it is often due to a birth defect in that area of the spine.
most people achieve pain relief and can move better after microdiskectomy.
also, if you needed more than one kind of back surgery (such as laminectomy and spinal fusion), you may have more of a chance of future back problems.
common side effects of opioids include anxiety, constipation, nausea, vomiting, dizziness, drowsiness, paranoia, urinary retention, restlessness, and labored or slow breathing.
while some studies have reported benefit, many consider  the evidence to support the use of this procedure weak.
in december 2006, the  fda approved celecoxib for the relief of symptoms of juvenile rheumatoid  arthritis in patients ages 2 years and older.
after 4 years, fewer than half of patients may be symptom-free.
unfortunately, rigorous studies of acupuncture are difficult to perform, and most evidence on its benefits is weak.
exercise and physical therapy the role of physical therapy physical therapy with a trained professional may be useful if pain has not  improved after 3 - 4 weeks.
most slipped disks (herniated disks) take place in the lumbar  area of the spine.
proton-pump inhibitor (ppi) drugs may help prevent and heal ulcers caused  by nsaids.
a 2004 study analyzed health care expenses in the united states.
vertebrae in the spinal column are separated from each other by small cushions of cartilage known asintervertebral disks.
it can produce increased lordosis (swayback), but in later stages may result in kyphosis (roundback) as the upper spine falls off the lower spine.
the most commonly prescribed medications for the treatment of back pain are nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (nsaids).
eur spine j. 2006;15 suppl 3:s448-457.
these cages are packed  with bone graft material.
the surgery can be performed using a minimally invasive laparoscopic procedure, which is performed through tiny cuts using miniature tools and viewing devices.
others believe ice packs should be applied first.
after identifying and moving  the nerve root, the surgeon removes the injured disk tissue under it.
exercise may also be effective when combined with a psychological and motivational program, such as cognitive-behavioral therapy.
any duplication or distribution of the information contained herein is strictly  prohibited.
antidepressants for non-specific low back pain.
diskectomy is recommended when a herniated disk causes one or more of the  following: leg pain or numbness that are severe or persistent, making it hard for the  patient to perform daily tasks weakness in the muscles of the lower leg or buttocks an inability to control bowel movements or urination most other people with low back or neck pain, numbness, or even mild  weakness are often first treated without surgery.
the disease is more common in men, but about 30% of the cases are in women.
an ulcer is a crater-like lesion on the skin or mucous membrane that is caused by an inflammatory, infectious, or cancerous condition.
a skin patch  containing an opioid called transdermal fentanyl (duragesic) may relieve  chronic back pain more effectively than oral opioids.
conditions fusion may be done for include: spinal stenosis injury or fractures to the bones in the spine weak or unstable spine caused by infections or tumors spondylolisthesis, a condition in which one vertebrae slips forward on top  of another abnormal curvatures, such as those from scoliosis or kyphosis the surgeon will use a graft (such as bone) to hold (or fuse) the bones  together permanently.
botox is commonly used to smooth out wrinkles and to treat other neuromuscular disorders.
you and your doctor can decide when you need to have surgery for your condition.
it has been performed for 40 years, and increasingly less invasive techniques developed over time.
all patients should require objective evidence on the benefits of their treatments.
it can also detect spinal stenosis.
repetition is the key to increasing flexibility, building endurance, and strengthening the specific muscles needed to support and neutralize the spine.
they should weigh even less for very young children.
physical therapy typically includes the following: incorrect movements or long-term high-impact exercise is often a cause of back pain in the first place.
diskectomy is recommended when a herniated disk causes one or more of the following: most other people with low back or neck pain, numbness, or even mild weakness are often first treated without surgery.
some cases of chronic low back pain may be caused by inward growth of nerve fibers into the annular ring, which triggers pain within the intervertebral disk.
intervertebral disks begin deteriorating and growing thinner by age 30.
patients are also more likely to think of themselves as having a serious back problem if abnormalities are identified on mri scans, even if the scans do not result in treatment changes.
their results suggest that surgical treatment is better, at least over the first 2 years after surgery.
exercises for back pain include: low impact aerobic exercises.
ongoing or maintenance spinal  manipulation has not been proven to alter the course of chronic back pain.
most people achieve pain relief and can  move better after microdiskectomy.
if you needed more than  one kind of back surgery (such as laminectomy and spinal fusion), you may have  more of a chance of future problems.
however, such risks are very low.
back pain exercise does not help acute back pain.
freeman bj, fraser rd, cain cm, et al.
always check with your doctor before using any herbal remedies or dietary  supplements.
spondylolisthesis occurs when one of the lumbar vertebrae slips over another, or over the sacrum.
activities should be done without strain or  stretching.
if possible, the seat  bottom should be tilted slightly upward in front.
the injection is placed  into the epidural space, just inside the outer membrane covering the spine.
inflammatory disorders and arthritis syndromes can produce inflammation in the spine.
luo x, pietrobon r, sun sx, et al.
patients should avoid exercises that put the lower back under pressure  until the back muscles are well toned.
such exercises include leg lifts done in  a facedown position, straight leg sit-ups, and leg curls using exercise  equipment.
other symptoms include a feeling of weakness or heaviness in the buttocks or legs.
acupuncture acupuncture is now a common alternative treatment for certain kinds of  pain.
cauda equina syndrome is the impingement of the cauda equina (the four strands of nerves leading through the lowest part of the spine).
for the study, 101 adults with low back pain were randomly assigned to one of  three groups.
(even when not lifting an object,  always try to use this posture when stooping down.)
using them for  longer than 16 weeks to treat low back pain has not been well studied and may  increase the risk of abuse, if a health care provider does not manage usage  well.
researchers believe that in most cases the cause is hereditary.
emotional or  behavioral problems may also contribute to back pain in children.
spondylolisthesis may vary from mild to severe.
some studies have suggested that botox may be of help in relieving chronic low back pain but its role in the treatment of back pain has not yet been determined.
prevention and self-care most patients should understand that they are likely to improve over the  first month after their low back pain begins, often with no treatments.
long-term use of nsaids is also the second most common cause of ulcers and gastrointestinal bleeding.
specific conditions can determine the rate of improvement.
researchers are investigating whether injections of botulinum toxin (botox) in the lower back can safely and effectively relieve pain.
chronic low back pain: physical  training, graded activity with problem solving training, or both?
these are used to keep the vertebrae from moving until the bone grafts fully heal.
epidural steroid injections injections of corticosteroids (commonly called steroids) are sometimes used  to treat low back pain caused by nerve impingement.
the particular processes form the joints between the vertebrae themselves, meeting together and interlocking at the zygapophysial joints (more commonly known as facet, or z-joints).
click the icon to see an image of acupuncture.
each nerve root passes from the spinal column to other parts of the body through small openings, bounded on one side by the disk and on the other by the facets.
percutaneous neuromodulation therapy.
endoscopic therapy can be used to stop ulcer-related bleeding.
physical therapy with a trained professional may be useful if pain has not improved after 3 - 4 weeks.
a combination of tramadol  and acetaminophen (ultracet) is now available.
the  procedure does not change any of the structural supports of the spine,  including joints, ligaments, and muscles.
patients should understand that most people who have sudden low back pain, even with sciatica, have a high likelihood of substantial improvement over the first month.
improper or excessive exercise may also increase one's chances for back pain.
diskectomy diskectomy is the surgical removal of the diseased disk.
research has also focused on tears in the annular ring -- the fibrous band that surrounds and protects the disk.
flexibility exercises may help reduce  pain.
bone graft material may be placed between the vertebrae special cages may be placed between the vertebrae.
diagnosis and treatment of low back pain: a joint clinical practice guideline from the american college of physicians and the american pain society.
sitting puts the most pressure on the back.
the annular ring contains a dense nerve network and high levels of peptides that heighten perception of pain.
a possible benefit of these artificial disks is that they would allow more movement of the spine, and therefore prevent disk degeneration below and above the site of surgery (a frequent complication of spinal fusion).
the injection is directed as close to the location of the affected nerve as possible.
acupuncture has not shown any benefits for acute low back pain in most patients, but may provide some help for patients with chronic low back pain.
there is evidence of benefit for spinal manipulation treatment of subacute pain and exacerbations of chronic pain.
these include: the main goal of a physical exam is to try and determine the source of the pain and the limits of movement.
symptoms of the cauda equina syndrome include: osteoarthritis occurs in joints of the spine, usually as a result of aging, but also in response to previous back injuries, excessive wear and tear, previously herniated discs, prior surgeries, and fractures.
over time increase this exercise until it is held for 5 seconds.
however, studies now suggest that up to 75% of patients suffer at least one recurrence of back pain over the course of a year.
some doctors are approaching the problem as one that is not necessarily curable and that needs a consistent on-going approach.
very small amounts of botox temporarily paralyze muscle tissue.
the  specific goal of chiropractors is to perform spinal manipulations to improve  nerve transmission.
the technique is  proving useful for stabilizing the spine and relieving pain in patients with  spinal compression fractures due to osteoporosis or cancer.
some studies report that a course of cognitive-behavioral therapy helps  reduce chronic back pain, or at least enhances the patient's ability to deal  with it.
it can be quite mild, however, and it rarely affects a person's ability to work.
juvenile chronic arthropathy is an inherited form of arthritis.
smokers are at higher risk for back problems, perhaps because smoking decreases blood circulation.
such exercises include leg lifts done in a facedown position, straight leg sit-ups, and leg curls using exercise equipment.
anema jr, steenstra ia, bongers pm, et al.
try an over-the-counter nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory such as aspirin or  ibuprofen.
laminectomy is frequently done to treat spinal stenosis.
avoid  caffeine in the afternoon and evening, and unwind before bed by taking a warm  bath or practicing relaxation techniques.
2007;32(3):291-298; discussion 299-300.
a british study found that young adults who were long-term smokers  were nearly twice as likely to develop low back pain as nonsmokers were.
the general direction of osteopathy  over the years has widened to employ a broader range of treatments, which now  approach those of standard medicine.
patients use specific tasks and self-observations to help them change their thinking.
it can cause permanent incontinence if not promptly treated with surgery.
however, none of these  have been compared to other standard treatments.
using them for longer than 16 weeks to treat low back pain has not been well studied and may increase the risk of abuse, if a health care provider does not manage usage well.
johnson re, jones gt, wiles nj, et al.
some cases of sciatica pain may occur when a muscle located deep in the buttocks pinches the sciatic nerve.
a herniated disk, spinal stenosis, degenerative disc disease, spondylolisthesis, or other abnormalities of vertebrae can all cause pressure on the sciatic nerve.
the patient should be able to describe the back pain and its history in the following manner: a patient should report any serious health problems, symptoms, and concerns that may raise a red flag for a more serious condition.
the spine is a column of small bones, or vertebrae, that support the entire upper body.
alternative means it is done in place of conventional medicine.
however, reasonable evidence shows that patients receive short-term pain relief, generally over a 1 - 2 month period, from these injections.
wardlaw d, cummings sr, van meirhaeghe j,et al. efficacy and safety of balloon kyphoplasty compared with non-surgical care for vertebral compression fracture (free): a randomised controlled trial.
this condition typically develops as a person ages and the disks become drier and start to shrink.
anyone who undergoes acupuncture should be sure it is performed in a reputable location by experienced practitioners who use sterilized equipment.
spinal manipulation for uncomplicated low back pain.
you and your  doctor can decide when you need to have surgery for your condition.
however, few studies have been conducted to determine the procedure's real effectiveness.
after 12 weeks, those who took yoga could better perform  daily activities requiring the back than those in the other two groups.
(note: heat or cold treatments do not  have much effect on sciatica.)
improper or excessive exercise may  also increase one's chances for back pain.
stress fractures (spondylolysis) in the spine are a common cause of back pain in young athletes.
ppis include omeprazole (prilosec), esomeprazole (nexium), and  lansoprazole (prevacid).
one group of researchers found that people with low  back pain who wear low-level heat wraps for 8 hours a day have significantly  less pain and disability.
however, the reviewers noted that antidepressants help in other cases of chronic pain and that additional, larger studies are needed to clarify their effect on chronic low back pain.
riding in or driving a car for long periods of time increases stress.
slipped disks are one of the most common causes of lower  back pain.
this benefit has not been yet been proven in large studies.
this lead to the  removal of rofecoxib (vioxx) and valdecoxib (bextra) from the united states  market.
cognitive-behavioral therapy
spinal stenosis symptoms often become worse over time, but this may happen very slowly.
flexibility exercises.
cauda equina syndrome.
antidepressants some studies show that antidepressants may lessen the severity of pain in  some patients, although they have little effect on daily functioning.
exercise, diet, stress, and weight all have a significant influence on  back pain.
it should be strongly noted that the presence of psychological factors in no way diminishes the reality of the pain and its disabling effects.
a licensed medical professional should be consulted for  diagnosis and treatment of any and all medical conditions.
jogging is usually not recommended, at least not until the pain is gone and muscles are stronger.
scar tissue is a potential problem, since it can cause persistent low back  pain afterward other complications of spinal surgery can include nerve and  muscle damage, infection, and the need for another operation.
comparing yoga, exercise, and a self-care book for chronic low back
at that time, the disks are more fluid-filled and more vulnerable to pressure from this movement.
however, studies have been mixed on the outcome of company interventions.
a recent review of existing studies found no clear evidence that  antidepressants help people with chronic low back pain.
little or no physical  therapy is usually needed.
ulcers  caused by nsaids are more likely to bleed than those caused by the bacteria helicobacter pylori.
eur spine j. 2006;15 suppl 3:s439-47.
it is best not to stand for long periods of time.
pregnant women are prone to back pain due to a shifting of abdominal organs, the forward redistribution of body weight, and the loosening of ligaments in the pelvic area as the body prepares for delivery.
to avoid irritating an ulcer, stop smoking  and try to eliminate certain substances from your diet, including caffeine and  alcohol.
wardlaw d, cummings sr, van meirhaeghe j,et al. efficacy and safety of  balloon kyphoplasty compared with non-surgical care for vertebral compression  fracture (free): a randomised controlled trial.
in fact, overexertion may cause  further harm.
get plenty of sleep.
there are different types of back pain exercises.
those with severe fractures or spinal infections should not have  kyphoplasty.
tricyclics can have severe side effects.
numbness and tingling should get better or disappear.
it is sometimes difficult to diagnose.
the pelvic tilt alleviates tight or fatigued lower back  muscles.
pressure on the spinal cord may also occur, producing symptoms of numbness, tingling, or weakness.
the longer a person continues such work, the higher their risk.
a herniated disk, sometimes (incorrectly) called a slipped disk, is a common cause of severe back pain and sciatica.
other problems can also cause back pain, however.
a disk in the lumbar area becomes herniated when it ruptures or thins out, and degenerates to the point that the gel within the disk (the nucleus pulposus) pushes outward.
in fact, when prescribed properly, use of opioids for chronic pain can be safer in some cases than on-going use of nsaids.
in all cases, patients should never force themselves to exercise if, by  doing so, the pain increases.
some doctors are approaching the problem  as one that is not necessarily curable and that needs a consistent on-going  approach.
the resulting condition is called piriformis syndrome.
injecting a drug that blocks pain into the nerves in the back helps locate the level in the spine where problems occur.
resources www.niams.nih.gov -- national institute of arthritis and musculoskeletal  and skin diseases www.aaos.org -- american academy of orthopaedic surgeons www.arthritis.org -- arthritis foundation www.spine.org -- north american spine society www.apta.org -- american physical therapy association www.ampainsoc.org -- american pain society www.theacpa.org -- american chronic pain association www.iasp-pain.org -- international association for the study of pain references anema jr, steenstra ia, bongers pm, et al.
after spinal fusion, the area that was fused together can no longer move.
surgical versus nonsurgical therapy for lumbar spinal stenosis.
idet: a critical appraisal of the evidence.
those with severe fractures or spinal infections should not have kyphoplasty.
low-impact aerobic exercises, such  as swimming, bicycling, and walking can strengthen muscles in the abdomen and  back without over-straining the back.
in all cases, patients should never force themselves to exercise if, by doing so, the pain increases.
often, many of the symptoms of low back pain caused by a herniated disc get better or disappear over time, without surgery.
the curves, along with the intervertebral disks,  help to absorb and distribute stresses that occur from everyday activities such  as walking or from more intense activities such as running and jumping.
the most common reasons for surgery for low back pain are disk herniation and spinal stenosis.
prescription medicines are available to suppress the acid in the  stomach that causes erosion of the stomach lining.
some studies have shown that massage therapy can help some patients with chronic or acute back pain, especially when combined with exercise and patient education.
a stretching program may work best when combined with strengthening  exercises.
transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (tens) uses low-level electrical pulses to suppress back pain.
some studies have  suggested that botox may be of help in relieving chronic low back pain but its  role in the treatment of back pain has not yet been determined.
pain: a randomized, controlled trial.
warning: the food and drug administration (fda) has warned consumers that polymethylmethacrylate bone cement, used during vertebroplasty, could leak.
not all people have back pain after such injuries, however.
lack of exercise leads to the following conditions that may threaten the back: improper or intense exercise.
spinal fusion is usually done along with other surgical procedures of the  spine, such as a diskectomy, laminectomy, or a foraminotomy.
freeman bj, davenport j. total disc replacement in the lumbar spine: a  systematic review of the literature.
this routine should be  done two or three times during the day.
those at high risk for bleeding include people over age 60, anyone with a  history of ulcers or gastrointestinal bleeding, patients with serious heart  conditions, people who abuse alcohol, and those who take medications such as  anticoagulants (blood thinners) and corticosteroids.
comparing yoga, exercise, and a  self-care book for chronic low back
there have been a number of reported cases of serious and even lethal side effects from herbal products.
it is performed through a small incision (1 to 1-1/2 inch).
the mainstay of treatment is an initial period of rest with pain and  anti-inflammatory medications followed by physical therapy.
campbell's operative orthopaedics.
lack of exercise leads to the  following conditions that may threaten the back: stiff muscles can make it hard to move, rotate, and bend the back.
when performed, it is generally reserved for patients who did not experience relief from other therapies, including surgery.
the link may also be due to an unhealthy lifestyle  in general.
however, following numerous reports of heart problems, skin rashes, and other adverse effects, the fda re-evaluated the risks and benefits of this drug class.
coxibs inhibit an inflammation-promoting  enzyme called cox-2.
percutaneous kyphoplasty.
piriformis syndrome usually develops after an injury.
another consideration when surgery is an option is the overall safety of the recommended procedure, weighed against its potential short-term benefits and its benefits in the long run.
in older adults, osteoporosis and osteoarthritis are also common.
patients who take muscle relaxants may  experience a number of central nervous system side effects, such as drowsiness.
after  26 weeks, those who took yoga had less pain and better back function, and used  fewer pain relievers than the others.
the vast majority of back pain patients will not need aggressive medical or surgical treatments.
after identifying and moving the nerve root, the surgeon removes the injured disk tissue under it.
regular exercise and vitamin and mineral supplements can reduce and even reverse loss of bone density.
osteopathy manipulates the bones, muscles,  and tendons to optimize blood circulation.
most herbal remedies used for back pain are said to have both  pain-relieving and anti-inflammatory effects.
laminectomy opens up your  spinal canal so your spinal nerves or spinal cord have more room.
nonpharmacologic therapies for acute and chronic low  back pain: a review of the evidence for an american pain society/american  college of physicians clinical practice guideline.
celecoxib (celebrex) is still available, but patients should ask their doctor whether the drug is appropriate and safe for them.
u.s. department of labor, bureau of labor statistics.
the one-year  post-treatment results of a randomized controlled trial.
professionals who understand the  limitations and special needs of back pain, and can address individual health  conditions, should guide this program.
the damaged disk can take on many forms: pain in the leg may be worse than the back pain in cases of herniated disks.
addiction is a risk, although less than is commonly believed when these medications are used for pain relief.
hold this  position for about 20 seconds (while breathing evenly) and then repeat on the  other side.
according to the bureau of labor statistics, back pain was responsible for around 60% of cases of people missing work due to pain involving the upper body.
weak stomach muscles can increase the strain on the back and cause an  abnormal tilt of the pelvis.
meta-analysis: exercise  therapy for nonspecific low back pain.
generally,  these exercises attempt to strengthen the abdomen, improve lower back mobility,  strength, and endurance, and enhance flexibility in the hip, the hamstring  muscles, and the tendons at the back of the thigh.
stand up without bending forward from the waist.
exercise may also be effective when combined  with a psychological and motivational program, such as cognitive-behavioral  therapy.
the new york times company.
osteoporosis is a condition characterized by progressive loss of bone density, thinning of bone tissue, and increased vulnerability to fractures.
pain associated with the sciatic nerve usually originates when nerve roots in the spinal cord become compressed or damaged.
because most patients with back pain are on the mend or completely recovered within 6 weeks, imaging techniques such as x-rays or scans are rarely recommended in the first month unless the health care provider suspects a tumor, fracture, infection, cauda equina syndrome, or progressive neurological disease.
et al. evaluation of vertebroplasty with a  validated outcome measure: the roland-morris disability questionnaire.
heat  is applied for about 15 minutes.
one-third of adults over 20 show signs of herniated disks (although only 3% of these disks cause symptoms).
it can cause nausea, but does not cause the severe gastrointestinal problems that nsaids can.
click the icon to see an illustrated series detailing spinal fusion.
intradiscal electrothermal treatment (idet) uses electricity to heat a painful disk.
low back pain: prediction of short-term outcome of facet joint injection with bone scintigraphy.
a technique called percutaneous neuromodulation therapy (pnt) uses a small device that delivers electrical stimulation to deep tissues and nerve pathways near the spine.
they  are the most powerful medications available for the management of pain.
but there may be other causes of low back pain.
coxibs inhibit an inflammation-promoting enzyme called cox-2.
2007;146(2):116-1127.
there are four natural curves in the spinal column: the cervical, thoracic,  lumbar, and sacral curvature.
tramadol tramadol (ultram) is a pain reliever that has been used as an alternative  to opioids.
there have been a number of  reported cases of serious and even lethal side effects from herbal products.
celecoxib (celebrex) is still available, but patients should ask their  doctor whether the drug is appropriate and safe for them.
it can cause pain in the sacrum and hip joints of children and young people.
total disk replacement is an investigative procedure for some patients with severely damaged disks.
it provides more rapid pain relief than tramadol alone.
trout at, kallmes df, gray la,
tramadol (ultram) is a pain reliever that has been used as an alternative to opioids.
the bones can then be seen using x-rays orsingle photon emission computed tomography (spect).
in  appropriate candidates it provides faster relief than medical treatment, but  long-term benefits (over 5 years) are uncertain.
tears in the annular ring are a frequent finding in patients with degenerative disk disease.
medications for acute and chronic low back pain: a  review of the evidence for an american pain society/american college of  physicians clinical practice guideline.
diskectomy is the surgical removal of the diseased disk.
the surgeon may get the graft from different places: from another part of your body (usually around your pelvic bone).
symptoms include a slow development of back discomfort, with pain lasting for more than 3 months.
the pelvic tilt alleviates tight or fatigued lower back muscles.
spinal fusion spinal fusion is surgery to fuse spine bones (vertebrae) that cause you to  have back problems.
when your symptoms become more severe and interfere with your daily life or your job, surgery may help.
specific and regular exercise under the guidance of a trained professional is important for reducing pain and improving function, although patients often find it difficult to maintain therapy.
the muscle relaxant soma can be addictive and does little more than induce  sleep.
after 4 years, fewer than  half of patients may be symptom-free.
chiropractors typically perform spinal manipulations, but so do osteopathic doctors.
patients who take muscle relaxants may experience a number of central nervous system side effects, such as drowsiness.
haake m, muller hh, schade-brittinger c, et al.
pain or numbness due to sciatica can vary widely.
botulinum toxin injections researchers are investigating whether injections of botulinum toxin (botox)  in the lower back can safely and effectively relieve pain.
more than one vertebra may be affected.
if an object can be moved without lifting, pull it, don't push.
between 30 - 70% of cyclists experience low back pain.
patients should also be aware that some chiropractors use alternative treatments that have not been proven or rigorously studied.
common side effects of opioids include anxiety, constipation, nausea,  vomiting, dizziness, drowsiness, paranoia, urinary retention, restlessness, and  labored or slow breathing.
it involves inserting small needles or exerting pressure on certain  "energy" points in the body.
2007;370(9599):1638-43.
call 911 for all  medical emergencies.
active exercise, education, and cognitive behavioral therapy for persistent disabling low back pain: a randomized controlled trial.
it is  done instead of spinal fusion surgery, but has not yet been shown to be  superior to it.
it may take 4 - 6 weeks for full recovery, however.
the back is usually stiff in the morning; pain improves with movement or exercise.
bend at the knees, not at the waist.
microdiskectomy is the current standard procedure.
alternate with the other arm and leg and  repeat on each side 8 - 20 times.
the procedure relieves pressure on the spine.
pain that lasts longer than 30 days, or gets worse with sitting, coughing, sneezing, or straining may indicated a longer recovery.
if it is necessary, walk as  much as possible and wear shoes without heels, preferably with cushioned soles.
chairs should either have  straight backs or low-back support.
the disks have no blood supply of their own.
there are multiple treatments for this potentially disabling disease, including various immune suppressant medications.
professionals who understand the limitations and special needs of back pain, and can address individual health conditions, should guide this program.
they gradually shift their perception of  helplessness against the pain that dominates their lives into the perception  that pain is only one negative among many positives and, to a degree, a  manageable experience.
it has largely been replaced by ct and mri scans.
for spinal stenosis, the traditional approach is a laminectomy and partial  removal of the facet joint.
stretching exercises work best for reducing pain, while strengthening exercises are best for improving function.
2005;142(9):765-775.
at the same time, the bones and ligaments of the spine swell or grow larger due to arthritis and chronic inflammation.
in december 2006, the fda proposed even stronger labeling changes to highlight the potential of these drugs to cause liver damage, as well as risks of alcohol and drug interactions with nsaids.
people vulnerable to back pain should avoid  activities that put undue stress on the lower back or require sudden twisting  movements, such as football, golf, ballet, and weight lifting.
the  potential for serious adverse effects from low back manipulations is low.
unless the pain is very severe, experts advise against  routinely prescribing opioids.
also, if you  needed more than one kind of back surgery (such as laminectomy and spinal  fusion), you may have more of a chance of future back problems.
a few have been found to have  some benefit when compared to placebo or sugar pill.
electrical nerve stimulation.
the primary goal of this form of therapy in such cases is to change the distorted perceptions that patients have of themselves, and change their approach to pain.
(vertebroplasty injects  the cement directly into the vertebra.)
it circulates through the body, and is absorbed by the bones.
a skin patch containing an opioid called transdermal fentanyl (duragesic) may relieve chronic back pain more effectively than oral opioids.
incorrect movements or long-term high-impact exercise is often a cause of  back pain in the first place.
move  the car seat as far forward as possible to avoid bending forward.
osteopathy was also founded in the 1800s, and its core approach to healing  also involves physical manipulation.
these positions may create more space in the spinal canal, thus relieving pressure on the spinal cord or the spinal nerves.
active exercise, education, and  cognitive behavioral therapy for persistent disabling low back pain: a  randomized controlled trial.
a synthetic bone substitute can also be used, but this is not common yet.
the belts offer little added support for the back and do not prevent back injuries.
transcutaneous electrical nerve  stimulation (tens) uses low-level electrical pulses to suppress back pain.
exercises called  lumbar extension strength training are proving to be effective.
hancock mj, maher cg, latimer j, et al.
medical research has shown that pregnant women who engaged in a  water gymnastics program have less back pain and are able to continue working  longer.
one group attended yoga classes and lessons; the second did  aerobics, weight training, and stretching; the third group read a self-help  book about back pain.
backpacks should not weigh more than 20% of the child's  body weight.
at that time, the disks are  more fluid-filled and more vulnerable to pressure from this movement.
exercises to help the patient keep the spine in neutral positions during  all daily activities.
erdogmus cb, resch kl, sabitzer r, et al.
there are currently a number of video-assisted fusion techniques.
this drug class was initially thought to provide benefits  equal to nsaids but cause less gastrointestinal distress.
quit smoking smokers are at higher risk for back problems, perhaps because smoking  decreases blood circulation.
the back of  the seat should not be reclined more than 30 degrees.
apply heat (104 f) to the painful area.
it is extremely important that the patient is sure that the health care provider has had significant experience performing the vertebroplasty procedure.
lying curled up in a fetal position with a pillow  between the knees or lying on the back with a pillow under the knees may help.
estimates and patterns of direct health care expenditures among individuals with back pain in the united states.
then,  extend the legs a little more so that the feet are further away from the body  and try it again.
for spinal stenosis, the traditional approach is a laminectomy and partial removal of the facet joint.
anyone who engages in heavy lifting should take precautions when lifting and bending.
those at high risk for bleeding include people over age 60, anyone with a history of ulcers or gastrointestinal bleeding, patients with serious heart conditions, people who abuse alcohol, and those who take medications such as anticoagulants (blood thinners) and corticosteroids.
it has value only for select patients with pain on moving and standing.
the procedure does not change any of the structural supports of the spine, including joints, ligaments, and muscles.
avoid intense exercise and physical activity, particularly heavy lifting  and trunk twisting, if there is acute back pain.
several serious conditions can also cause back pain.
a recent review of existing studies found no clear evidence that antidepressants help people with chronic low back pain.
in this way, the positive benefits of exercise not only  affect strength and flexibility but also alter and improve patients' attitudes  toward their disability and pain.
they should  also ask about the long-term outcome of the recommended treatment.
your pain, numbness, or weakness may not get better or go away if the disk damaged your nerve before surgery.
exercise should be considered as part of a broader program to return to normal home, work, and social activities.
total disk replacement is an  investigative procedure for some patients with severely damaged disks.
some chiropractors may take a lot of x-rays, particularly those of the full  spine, which may have long-term harmful consequences.
there is controversy whether performing a fusion  procedure along with these procedures is needed.
no high quality studies have shown that these injections provide long-term  benefit for most patients, compared to more conservative treatments.
some workers wear back support belts, but evidence strongly suggests that they are useful only for people who currently have low back pain.
in addition, compression fractures are often responsible for loss of height.
also, the degree of disk abnormalities revealed by mris often has very little to do with the severity of the pain or the need for surgery.
studies that measure the benefits of steroid injections on sciatica or low back pain are conflicting.
a combination of tramadol and acetaminophen (ultracet) is now available.
minimally invasive variations are under investigation.
some people have sharp pain in one part of the leg or hip and numbness in other parts.
it should be noted that surgery does not always improve outcome and, in some cases, can even make it worse.
et al. evaluation of vertebroplasty with a validated outcome measure: the roland-morris disability questionnaire.
repetition is  the key to increasing flexibility, building endurance, and strengthening the  specific muscles needed to support and neutralize the spine.
kyphoplasty is used to stabilize the spine and return spinal height to as normal as possible.
2007;32(15):1578-1585 katz jn, harris mb.
in severe cases, the patient stands or sits stooped over.
even when symptoms last longer, unless a potentially serious diagnosis is suspected, mri or ct scans can often be delayed until the time when surgery or epidural steroid injections come into consideration as treatment options.
only a few randomized trials  have compared this procedure with nonoperative treatment.
for example, a single jerky golf swing or incorrect use of  exercise equipment (especially free weights, nautilus, and rowing machines) can  cause serious back injuries.
however, following  numerous reports of heart problems, skin rashes, and other adverse effects, the  fda re-evaluated the risks and benefits of this drug class.
another consideration when surgery  is an option is the overall safety of the recommended procedure, weighed  against its potential short-term benefits and its benefits in the long run.
physiotherapy-based  rehabilitation following disc herniation operation: results of a randomized  clinical trial.
lie on the back with the knees bent and feet flat on the floor.
evidence has shown that they can help relieve non-specific low back  pain, but some experts warn that these drugs should be used cautiously, since  they target the brain, not the muscles.
try alternating between hot and cold packs.
injections of corticosteroids (commonly called steroids) are sometimes used to treat low back pain caused by nerve impingement.
specific and regular exercise under the guidance of a trained professional  is important for reducing pain and improving function, although patients often  find it difficult to maintain therapy.
percutaneous vertebroplasty involves the injection of a cement-like bone substitute into vertebrae with compression fractures.
2005;30(21):2369-77; discussion 2378.
nevertheless, when it is appropriate, surgery can provide great relief.
german acupuncture trials  (gerac) for chronic low back pain: randomized, multicenter, blinded,  parallel-group trial with 3 groups.
however, there have been few well-conducted studies to determine if any type of back pain surgery works better than others, or if a single procedure is better than no surgery at all.
home care tips for relieving pain resume normal activity as soon as possible.
however, studies now suggest that up to 75% of patients suffer at least one  recurrence of back pain over the course of a year.
the pain may move to the buttocks but rarely any farther down the leg.
in fact, when  prescribed properly, use of opioids for chronic pain can be safer in some cases  than on-going use of nsaids.
back pain can be acute, subacute, or chronic.
multidisciplinary rehabilitation  for subacute low back pain: graded activity or workplace intervention or both?
tips for lifting and bending anyone who engages in heavy lifting should take precautions when lifting  and bending.
some research suggests that over time, high-impact exercise may increase  the risk for degenerative disk disease.
urquhart dm, hoving jl, assendelft ww, et al.
according to one study, about a third of  patients with uncomplicated low back pain significantly improved after a week;  two-thirds recovered by 7 weeks.
depending on which part and how much of the spine is involved, symptoms may be similar to that of a herniated disc, lumbar strain, or spinal stenosis (narrowing of the spinal canal).
in rare cases, doctors may use bone scintigraphy (bone scanning) to determine abnormalities in the bones.
repeat with the other knee.
a randomized, double-blind, controlled trial: intradiscal electrothermal therapy versus placebo for the treatment of chronic discogenic low back pain.
clarke ja, van tulder mw, blomberg se, et al.
in some cases, the pain is severe enough to cause immobility.
from a bone bank, in a procedure called an allograft.
fusing means two bones are permanently placed together so  there is no longer movement between them.
some patients who take tramadol experience severe itching.
many approaches and procedures are available or being investigated.
opioids are synthetic drugs and include oxycodone (percodan,  percocet, oxycontin), hydrocodone (vicodin), and oxymorphone (numorphan).
ratcliffe j, thomas kj, macpherson h, et al.
pain may temporarily feel worse, but after healing, the disk shrinks and becomes desensitized to pain.
no high quality studies have shown that these injections provide long-term benefit for most patients, compared to more conservative treatments.
would the  improvements last and, if so, for how long?
exercise and chronic back pain exercise plays a very beneficial role in chronic back pain.
white willow bark, bromelain, and boswellia have blood-thinning properties and can interfere with anticoagulant medications, such as warfarin (coumadin).
however,  there have been few well-conducted studies to determine if any type of back  pain surgery works better than others, or if a single procedure is better than  no surgery at all.
the procedure  relieves pressure on the spine.
as people continue to age and the disks lose moisture and shrink, the risk for spinal stenosis increases.
supportive back belts, braces, or corsets may help some people  temporarily, but these products can reduce muscle tone over time and should be  used only briefly.
although most episodes of new back pain, as well as exacerbations of chronic back pain, clear up or return to a previous level of discomfort, a medical history and a brief physical examination is always necessary.
antidepressants called tricyclics may be effective painkillers in non-depressed  people with chronic back pain.
a small pillow or rolled towel behind the lower back  helps relieve pressure while either sitting or driving.
a traveler should stop and  walk around about every hour.
if pain and symptoms persist, surgery to remove the herniated portion of the intervertebral disk may be needed.
an artificial cushioning device called the prosthetic disk nucleus (pdn) replaces only the inner gel-like core (nucleus pulposus) within the intervertebral space, rather than the entire disk. .
an incremental aerobic exercise program (such as walking, stationary biking, and swimming) may begin within 2 weeks of symptoms.
people who do not exercise regularly face an increased risk for low back pain, especially when they perform sudden, stressful activities such as shoveling, digging, or moving heavy items.
laminectomy laminectomy is surgery to remove either the lamina, two small bones that  make up a vertebra, or bone spurs in your back.
keep the knees bent and the lower back flat on the floor while raising the  shoulders up 3 - 6 inches.
cauda equina syndrome is an emergency condition that can cause severe complications to bowel or bladder function.
other surgical procedures percutaneous vertebroplasty.
however, healing  takes several weeks.
opioids are effective for short-term relief of back pain.
the primary goal of this form of therapy in such cases is to change  the distorted perceptions that patients have of themselves, and change their  approach to pain.
practices originating in asia that  combine low-impact physical movements and meditation may be very helpful.
they  are designed to achieve a physical and mental balance and can be very helpful  in preventing recurrences of low back pain.
the pain often starts slowly.
the most common reasons for surgery for low back pain are  disk herniation and spinal stenosis.
beginning after 4 - 8 weeks of pain, however, a rehabilitation program may benefit the patient.
the slip usually occurs between the fourth and fifth lumbar vertebrae.
the rate at which these changes develop varies between people..
surgical versus nonsurgical  therapy for lumbar spinal stenosis.
more than one vertebra may collapse as a result.
during this exam, a small amount of radioactive material is injected into a vein.
they are also useful to determine if any abnormal structural findings on an mri or other imaging tests have real significance as a cause of back pain.
(vertebroplasty injects the cement directly into the vertebra.)
keeping arms at the  sides, slowly roll the knees over to one side until totally relaxed.
there are several different ways of fusing vertebrae  together: strips of bone graft material may be placed over the back part of the  spine.
a variant of this procedure, percutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (pens), applies these pulses through a small needle to acupuncture points.
complications and outlook.
their results suggest  that surgical treatment is better, at least over the first 2 years after  surgery.
most slipped disks (herniated disks) take place in the lumbar area of the spine.
mild and temporary side effects from spinal manipulation are common.
programs that use strengthening exercises  while swimming may be a particularly beneficial approach for many patients with  back pain.
a survey of people who played tennis,  however, found no increased risk for low back pain or sciatica.
however, the risk for low back pain does not mount steadily with increasing age, which suggests that at a certain point, the conditions causing low back pain plateau.
epidural steroid injections for spinal stenosis may provide short-term  relief of pain but generally do not improve the patient's daily functioning,  nor do they help patients avoid surgery.
a procedure called a facet block is also useful in locating areas of specific damage.
scar tissue is a potential problem, since it can cause persistent low back pain afterward other complications of spinal surgery can include nerve and muscle damage, infection, and the need for another operation.
there is currently no evidence that any of these less-invasive procedures are as effective as the standard microdiskectomy.
heat is applied for about 15 minutes.
percutaneous vertebroplasty involves  the injection of a cement-like bone substitute into vertebrae with compression  fractures.
in any case,  it may be specifically helpful for certain patients with back pain, such as  pregnant women, who must avoid medications.
warning: the food and drug administration (fda) has warned consumers that  polymethylmethacrylate bone cement, used during vertebroplasty, could leak.
never twist from the waist while bending or lifting any heavy object.
exercises for back pain include: perform the following exercises at least three times a week: partial sit-ups.
still, despite sophisticated techniques, which provide detailed anatomical images of the spine and other tissues, the cause of most cases of back pain remains unknown.
exercise and acute or subacute
some  patients who take tramadol experience severe itching.
corticosteroids reduce inflammation.
anything that places pressure on one or more of the lumbar nerve roots can cause pain in parts or all of the sciatic nerve.
sedentary lifestyle.
most people with acute low back pain are back at work within a month and fully recover within a few months.
the test is not painful or dangerous, but some people may feel claustrophobic in scanners where they are fully enclosed.
endoscopic therapy can be  used to stop ulcer-related bleeding.
they may be able to ride an exercise bike.
patients are usually up and walking soon after disk surgery.
the back  muscles are lifted and moved away from the spine.
the affected leg may feel weak.
german acupuncture trials (gerac) for chronic low back pain: randomized, multicenter, blinded, parallel-group trial with 3 groups.
pneumaticos sg, chatziioannou sn, hipp ja, et al.
exercises performed after a simple diskectomy do not seem to provide much added benefit over time.
when the pins have been placed successfully, the patient is supposed to experience a sensation that brings a feeling of fullness, numbness, tingling, and warmth with some soreness around the acupuncture point.
one study reported  that 70% of cyclists reported improvement simply by adjusting the angle of the  bicycle seat.
other causes of spondylolisthesis include stress fractures (commonly seen in gymnasts) and traumatic fractures.
in adults, the most common cause is degenerative disease (such as arthritis).
some of these conditions include: any abnormality in joints, vertebrae, or nerve roots can cause back pain, including: in most known cases, pain begins with an injury, after lifting a heavy object, or after making a sudden movement.
persistent low back pain in children is more likely to have a serious cause that requires treatment than back pain in adults.
there is controversy among physicians who take care of the spine regarding the usefulness of diskography for making decisions about care, particularly surgery blood and urine samples may be used to test for infections, arthritis, or other conditions.
a few have been found to have some benefit when compared to placebo or sugar pill.
when the soft, gelatinous central portion of an intervertebral disk is forced through a weakened part of a disk, it is called a slipped disk.
if  you had spinal fusion and laminectomy, the spinal column above and below the  fusion are more likely to have problems in the future.
the technique is proving useful for stabilizing the spine and relieving pain in patients with spinal compression fractures due to osteoporosis or cancer.
use a low foot stool and alternate resting each foot on top of it.
these arches, aligned to run down the spine, form the spinal canal, which encloses the spinal cord.
botox is commonly  used to smooth out wrinkles and to treat other neuromuscular disorders.
about 20% of people with inflammatory bowel disease and about 20% of people with psoriasis develop a similar form of arthritis involving the spine.
exercise and obesity sedentary lifestyle.
exercise does not help acute back pain.
mri scans often detect spine abnormalities that are not causing symptoms in the patient.
prescription medicines are available to suppress the acid in the stomach that causes erosion of the stomach lining.
generally, manufacturers of herbal remedies and dietary supplements do not need fda approval to sell their products.
patients use specific tasks and self-observations to help  them change their thinking.
to date, however, the newer procedures  have higher complication rates than the open approaches, and some medical  centers have abandoned them.
it can cause nausea, but  does not cause the severe gastrointestinal problems that nsaids can.
and non-spinal causes of back pain, including infection and cancer.
stretching lower-back muscles.
it may feel like a mild tingling, dull ache, or a burning sensation.
illustrated health encyclopedia
maintaining good posture is very important.
perform this exercise slowly 8 - 10 times with the arms across the chest.
when your symptoms become more severe and interfere with your daily  life or your job, surgery may help.
yoga relieves low back pain better than conventional exercise or self-help  books, according to a study published in theannals of internal medicine .
ann intern med. 147(7):492-504.
in any case, it may be specifically helpful for certain patients with back pain, such as pregnant women, who must avoid medications.
each disk is 80% water and contains two structures.
sometimes a fracture may not show up for a week or two after an injury.
spine stabilization and strength training.
such antidepressants include amitriptyline  (elavil, endep), desipramine (norpramin), doxepin (sinequan), imipramine  (tofranil), amoxapine (asendin), nortriptyline (pamelor, aventyl), and  maprotiline (ludiomil).
acupuncture has not shown any benefits for acute low back pain in most  patients, but may provide some help for patients with chronic low back pain.
for example: most patients should understand that they are likely to improve over the first month after their low back pain begins, often with no treatments.
nonfatal occupational injuries and illnesses requiring days away from work, 2006.
in this way, the positive benefits of exercise not only affect strength and flexibility but also alter and improve patients' attitudes toward their disability and pain.
would the improvements last and, if so, for how long?
these tests are not used often in the evaluation and management of patients with low back pain.
2008;358:794-810.review date: 5/13/2009 2012 about.com.
hold  for 20 seconds.
the vast majority of back pain patients  will not need aggressive medical or surgical treatments.
it should be noted that any nerve injuries that affect these tests may not be present for 2 - 4 weeks after symptoms begin.
while some studies have reported benefit, many consider the evidence to support the use of this procedure weak.
it is important for any person who has chronic low  back pain to have an exercise program.
patients should avoid exercises that put the lower back under pressure until the back muscles are well toned.
numbness and tingling should get better or  disappear.
according to the national institute of arthritis and musculoskeletal and skin diseases, 8 out of 10 people have some type of backache.
patients who have the following symptoms or experience certain events may need more sophisticated imaging studies: magnetic resonance imaging (mri).
cochrane database syst rev. 2008;(1):cd001703.
hold for 3 seconds while tightening the abdominal  muscles.
each vertebra and its processes surround and protect an arch-shaped central opening.
sherman kj, cherkin dc, erro j, et al.
a  variant of this procedure, percutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (pens),  applies these pulses through a small needle to acupuncture points.
ppis include omeprazole (prilosec), esomeprazole (nexium), and lansoprazole (prevacid).
osteoporosis may result from disease, dietary or hormonal deficiency, or advanced age.
martell ba, o'connor pg, kerns rd, et al.
be sure to breathe evenly.
lying on the back, hold one knee and pull it gently toward the chest.
hold objects close to the body to reduce the load on the back.
this "black box" warning, the fda's strongest, emphasizes the increased risks for cardiovascular events (heart-related problems) and gastrointestinal (digestive tract) bleeding associated with the use of these drugs.
this lead to the removal of rofecoxib (vioxx) and valdecoxib (bextra) from the united states market.
they are the most powerful medications available for the management of pain.
diagnosis and treatment of low back pain: a joint  clinical practice guideline from the american college of physicians and the  american pain society.
lumbar spinal stenosis.
the technique implants artificial disks (prodisc, link, sb charite) consisting of two metal plates and a soft core.
spinal manipulation chiropractors typically perform spinal manipulations, but so do osteopathic  doctors.
unfortunately, opioid abuse among young people is a major concern.
surgery can be an extremely effective approach, however, for certain patients whose severe back pain does not respond to conservative measures.
spinal fusion is usually done along with other surgical procedures of the spine, such as a diskectomy, laminectomy, or a foraminotomy.
in december 2006, the fda approved celecoxib for the relief of symptoms of juvenile rheumatoid arthritis in patients ages 2 years and older.
if pain and  symptoms persist, surgery to remove the herniated portion of the intervertebral  disk may be needed.
some studies show that antidepressants may lessen the severity of pain in some patients, although they have little effect on daily functioning.
very  small amounts of botox temporarily paralyze muscle tissue.
such antidepressants include amitriptyline (elavil, endep), desipramine (norpramin), doxepin (sinequan), imipramine (tofranil), amoxapine (asendin), nortriptyline (pamelor, aventyl), and maprotiline (ludiomil).
diskography is a test that is used to help determine whether an abnormal disk seen on mri explains someone's pain.
it has been performed for 40 years, and  increasingly less invasive techniques developed over time.
just like a drug, herbs and  supplements can affect the body's chemistry, and therefore have the potential  to produce side effects that may be harmful.
some recurrence of back pain and sciatica occurs in half to two-thirds of postoperative patients.
for example: in the majority of patients with herniated disks, the condition improves  (although the actual physical improvement may be slower than the reduction in  pain).
when tested in high-quality studies, electrical nerve stimulation has not  been found to provide much help.
patients should ask their health care provider about evidence favoring  surgery or other (nonsurgical) treatments in their particular case.
the spinous and transverse processes attach to the muscles in the back and act like little levers, allowing the spine to twist or bend.
just like a drug, herbs and supplements can affect the body's chemistry, and therefore have the potential to produce side effects that may be harmful.
the incidence of low back pain and sciatica increases in women at the time of menopause as they lose bone density.
news release usdl 07-1741, november 8, 2007.
the sciatic nerve is a large nerve that starts in the lower back.
symptoms depend upon the area of the back that is affected; however, most fractures are stable and do not produce neurological symptoms.
office workers should have chairs, desks, and equipment that support the back or help maintain good posture.
the health care provider should give patients solid information on the expected course of their low back pain and self-care options before discussing surgery.
in appropriate candidates it provides faster relief than medical treatment, but long-term benefits (over 5 years) are uncertain.
some studies report that a course of cognitive-behavioral therapy helps reduce chronic back pain, or at least enhances the patient's ability to deal with it.
in children, spondylolisthesis usually occurs between the fifth bone in the lower back (lumbar vertebra) and the first bone in the sacrum area.
then, extend the legs a little more so that the feet are further away from the body and try it again.
however, few studies  have been conducted to determine the procedure's real effectiveness.
evidence suggests that short-term use of nsaids brings effective relief in patients with acute back pain.
long-term, regular use of nsaids can increase the risk for heart attack, especially for people who have a heart condition.
the column is grouped into three sections: below the lumbar region is the sacrum, a shield-shaped bony structure that connects with the pelvis at thesacroiliac joints.
at the end of the sacrum are two to four tiny, partially fused vertebrae known as thecoccyx, or "tail bone.
antidepressants called tricyclics may be effective painkillers in non-depressed people with chronic back pain.
fusing means two bones are permanently placed together so there is no longer movement between them.
heat may work better than  ibuprofen or acetaminophen.
review date: 5/13/2009 reviewed by: harvey simon, md, editor-in-chief,  associate professor of medicine, harvard medical school; physician,  massachusetts general hospital.
some doctors recommend  changing from hot to cold every 3 minutes and repeating this sequence three  times.
this drug class was initially thought to provide benefits equal to nsaids but cause less gastrointestinal distress.
tips for daily movement and inactivity the way a person moves, stands, or sleeps plays a major role in back pain.
most patients will report the presence of gradually worsening history of back pain over time.
an ulcer is a crater-like  lesion on the skin or mucous membrane that is caused by an inflammatory,  infectious, or cancerous condition.
one study indicated that patients who planned their own exercise program did worse than those in physical therapy or doctor-directed programs.
intradiscal  electrothermal treatment (idet) uses electricity to heat a painful disk.
2008;134(3):263-276.
other disorders of the spine.
addiction is a risk, although less than is commonly  believed when these medications are used for pain relief.
however, studies report only a weak association between  obesity and low back pain.
the origin of the pain is often unknown, and imaging studies may fail to determine its cause.
acupuncture is now a common alternative treatment for certain kinds of pain.
nonetheless, experts believe there  is a useful role for these drugs that warrants further investigation.
links to other sites are provided for information only --  they do not constitute endorsements of those other sites.
the back muscles are lifted and moved away from the spine.
one in three people with low back pain seeks treatment from a  chiropractor.
kinkade s. evaluation and treatment of acute low back pain.
specific exercises for low back strength perform the following exercises at least three times a week: partial sit-ups.
some chiropractors may take a lot of x-rays, particularly those of the full spine, which may have long-term harmful consequences.
it is often done along with a diskectomy, foraminotomy, and spinal fusion.
people who do not exercise regularly face an  increased risk for low back pain, especially when they perform sudden,  stressful activities such as shoveling, digging, or moving heavy items.
with multiple fractures, kyphosis (a forward hump-like curvature of the spine) may result.
chou r, qaseem a, et al.
for others, there may be minimal history of back pain, but at some point in this process any disruption, such as a minor injury that results in disk inflammation, can cause impingement on the nerve root and trigger pain.
changing certain lifestyle factors can help reduce, and possibly  prevent, backaches.
however,  reasonable evidence shows that patients receive short-term pain relief,  generally over a 1 - 2 month period, from these injections.
gentle exercise may be recommended at first.
scoliosis, an abnormal curvature of the spine in children, does not usually cause back pain.
prognosis most people with acute low back pain are back at work within a month and  fully recover within a few months.
the health care provider injects bone  cement into the space surrounding a fractured vertebra.
there are several different ways of fusing vertebrae together: the surgeon may get the graft from different places: the vertebrae are often also fixed together with screws, plates, or cages.
a randomised controlled trial of acupuncture care for persistent low back pain: cost effectiveness analysis.
low back pain: prediction  of short-term outcome of facet joint injection with bone scintigraphy.
if you had spinal fusion and laminectomy, the spinal column above and below the fusion are more likely to have problems in the future.
the vertebrae are often also fixed together with screws, plates, or cages.
antidepressants for  non-specific low back pain.
assessment of diclofenac or spinal manipulative therapy, or both, in addition to recommended first-line treatment for acute low back pain: a randomised controlled trial.
the long-term  benefits are of these procedures are unknown, however.
each vertebra in the spine has a number of bony projections called processes.
to avoid irritating an ulcer, stop smoking and try to eliminate certain substances from your diet, including caffeine and alcohol.
many studies have now confirmed that patients feel more  satisfied with their chiropractic care than with treatment from general  practitioners.
when the spinal cord reaches the lumbar region, it splits into four bundled strands of nerve roots called the cauda equina (meaning horsetail in latin).
at least 40% ofall adults have bulging or protruding vertebral disks, and most have no back pain.
it provides more rapid pain  relief than tramadol alone.
traction for low-back pain with or without sciatica.
the mainstay of treatment is an initial period of rest with pain and anti-inflammatory medications followed by physical therapy.
often, many of the symptoms  of low back pain caused by a herniated disc get better or disappear over time,  without surgery.
depending on the cause of the sciatica, symptoms may come and go.
cox-2 inhibitors (coxibs).
there are dozens of available nsaids:
however, the reviewers  noted that antidepressants help in other cases of chronic pain and that  additional, larger studies are needed to clarify their effect on chronic low  back pain.
[for more information, seein-depth report #18: osteoporosis.]
most herbal remedies used for back pain are said to have both pain-relieving and anti-inflammatory effects.
unfortunately, rigorous studies of acupuncture are  difficult to perform, and most evidence on its benefits is weak.
exercise should be  considered as part of a broader program to return to normal home, work, and  social activities.
back pain can occur in any area of the back, but it is more common in the lower back, which supports most of the body's weight.
they gradually shift their perception of helplessness against the pain that dominates their lives into the perception that pain is only one negative among many positives and, to a degree, a manageable experience.
in: canale st, beatty jh.
improper exercise instruction and inattention to body movements can lead  to back trouble.
recognizing this presence as a strong player in many cases of low back pain, however, can help determine the full range of treatment options.
herbs and supplements generally, manufacturers of herbal remedies and dietary supplements do not  need fda approval to sell their products.
if possible, chairs should swivel to avoid  twisting at the waist, have arm rests, and adjustable backs.
spondylolisthesis may occasionally be associated with bone diseases.
the spinal cord is the central trunk of nerves that connects the brain with the rest of the body.
the link may also be due to an unhealthy lifestyle in general.
these new  techniques are less invasive than standard "open" surgical  approaches, which use wide incisions.
muscle relaxants a combination of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and muscle relaxants  -- such as cyclobenzaprine (flexeril), diazepam (valium), carisoprodol (soma),  or methocarbamol (robaxin) -- are sometimes used for patients with acute low  back pain.
beginning after 4 - 8 weeks of pain, however, a rehabilitation  program may benefit the patient.
unless the pain is very severe, experts advise against routinely prescribing opioids.
it occurs mostly in young caucasians in their mid-20s.
microdiskectomy is the current standard  procedure.
conditions fusion may be done for include: the surgeon will use a graft (such as bone) to hold (or fuse) the bones together permanently.
this perception may sometimes slow down their recovery.
spinal stenosis is the narrowing of the spinal canal, or narrowing of the openings (called neural foramina) where spinal nerves leave the spinal column.
anyone who undergoes acupuncture  should be sure it is performed in a reputable location by experienced  practitioners who use sterilized equipment.
weak back muscles may increase the risk for disk compression.
a randomized controlled trial.
tighten the buttocks and abdomen so that they tip up slightly.
this means keeping the ears,  shoulders, and hips in a straight line with the head up and stomach pulled in.
however, other problems, including infection and birth defects, can sometimes cause spinal stenosis.
the way a person moves, stands, or sleeps plays a major role in back pain.
psychological factors are known to play a strong influential role in three phases of low back pain: studies also suggest that patients who reported prolonged emotional distress have less favorable outcomes after back surgeries.
traction for low-back pain  with or without sciatica.
disk abnormalities in people who have back pain may simply be a coincidence rather than an indication for treatment.
stretching exercises work  best for reducing pain, while strengthening exercises are best for improving  function.
assessment of diclofenac or spinal  manipulative therapy, or both, in addition to recommended first-line treatment  for acute low back pain: a randomised controlled trial.
laminectomy opens up your spinal canal so your spinal nerves or spinal cord have more room.
spondylolysis can cause spondylolisthesis, a condition in which the spine becomes unstable and the vertebrae slip over each other.
always check with your doctor before using any herbal remedies or dietary supplements.
kyphoplasty is used to stabilize the  spine and return spinal height to as normal as possible.
spinal stenosis stabilizes in about 70% of cases and worsens in 15%.
bed rest is no longer  recommended and may delay recovery.
reduced kidney function nsaid-induced ulcers and gastrointestinal bleeding long-term use of nsaids is the second most common cause of ulcers.
often, these symptoms develop over a short period of time, become more severe, and may have other findings that go along with them.
epidural steroid injections for spinal stenosis may provide short-term relief of pain but generally do not improve the patient's daily functioning, nor do they help patients avoid surgery.
this procedure requires injections into disks suspected of being the source of pain and disks nearby.
this muscle is called the piriformis.
other, less invasive procedures are available, including endoscopic  diskectomy, percutaneous diskectomy (pad), and laser diskectomy.
osteoporosis is a disease of the skeleton in which the amount of calcium present in the bones slowly decreases to the point where the bones become fragile and prone to fractures.
serious and painful side effects, including meningitis and inflammation, are possible.
extrusion is very uncommon, however, while sciatic and low-back pain are very common.
an incremental aerobic exercise program (such as walking, stationary  biking, and swimming) may begin within 2 weeks of symptoms.
spinal  stenosis symptoms often become worse over time, but this may happen very  slowly.
multidisciplinary rehabilitation for subacute low back pain: graded activity or workplace intervention or both?
(dependence and abuse have been reported, however.)
the following are three exercises for  stretching the lower back: lie on the back with knees bent and legs together.
if you needed more than one kind of back surgery (such as laminectomy and spinal fusion), you may have more of a chance of future problems.
depending on medical diagnoses that are identified by the history, the patient may need such tests as a dual energy x-ray absorptiometry (dexa) scan for osteoporosis or a nuclear scan for suspected arthritis, cancer, or infection.
future spine problems are possible for all patients after spine surgery.
healthy sleep plays a vital role in recovery.
little or no physical therapy is usually needed.
it is often  done along with a diskectomy, foraminotomy, and spinal fusion.
smeets rj, vlaeyen jw, hidding a, et al.
sciatica pain may get worse: sciatica pain usually goes away within 6 weeks, unless there are serious underlying conditions.
click the icon to see an  illustrated series detailing lumbar spinal surgery.
if an object is too heavy or awkward, get help.
tall women are at higher risk than short women.
an x-ray myelogram is an x-ray of the spine that requires a spinal injection of a special dye and the need to lie still for several hours to avoid a very painful headache.
often the symptoms will ease or disappear when sitting down or leaning forward.
strain and injury to the muscles and ligaments supporting the back are the major causes of low back pain.
nonetheless, experts believe there is a useful role for these drugs that warrants further investigation.
they rely on nearby blood vessels to keep them nourished.
symptoms can include tingling, numbness, or pain that radiates to the buttocks, legs, and feet.
extrusion (which is less common than the other two conditions) is highly associated with back pain, since the gel is likely to extend out far enough to press against the nerve root, most often the sciatic nerve.
employers and workers should make every effort to create a safe working environment.
tests that analyze the electric waveforms of nerves and muscles may be useful for detecting nerve abnormalities that may be causing back pain, and identifying possible injuries.
when the pins have been placed  successfully, the patient is supposed to experience a sensation that brings a  feeling of fullness, numbness, tingling, and warmth with some soreness around  the acupuncture point.
the back should be straight.
although no definitive studies have been done to prove the relationship between  lack of exercise and low back pain, some doctors believe that an inactive  lifestyle may be to blame in some cases.
laminectomy for spinal stenosis will often provide full or partial relief  of symptoms for many patients, but it is not always successful future spine problems are possible for all patients after spine surgery.
bone scintigraphy and spect imaging.
mris can detect tears in the disks, disk herniation, or disk fragments.
sciatica is not a diagnosis but a description of symptoms.
these new techniques are less invasive than standard "open" surgical approaches, which use wide incisions.
they should also ask about the long-term outcome of the recommended treatment.
systematic review: opioid  treatment for chronic back pain: prevalence, efficacy, and association with  addiction.
magnetic resonance imaging (mri) can provide very well-defined images of soft tissue and bone.
weinstein jn, tosteson td, lurie jd, et al.
the technique may be useful for early detection of spinal fractures, cancer that has spread to the bone, or certain inflammatory arthritic conditions.
systematic review: opioid treatment for chronic back pain: prevalence, efficacy, and association with addiction.
it is often difficult to get a good  night's sleep when suffering from back pain, particularly because the pain can  intensify at night.
a possible benefit of these artificial disks is that  they would allow more movement of the spine, and therefore prevent disk  degeneration below and above the site of surgery (a frequent complication of  spinal fusion).
2005;26(10):2652-2657.
the surgery can be  performed using a minimally invasive laparoscopic procedure, which is performed  through tiny cuts using miniature tools and viewing devices.
it may take 4  - 6 weeks for full recovery, however.
to date, however, the newer procedures have higher complication rates than the open approaches, and some medical centers have abandoned them.
when the soft, gelatinous central portion of an  intervertebral disk is forced through a weakened part of a disk, it is called a  slipped disk.
newer ways to deliver pain medicine have been developed.
other, less invasive procedures are available, including endoscopic diskectomy, percutaneous diskectomy (pad), and laser diskectomy.
a british study found that young adults who were long-term smokers were nearly twice as likely to develop low back pain as nonsmokers were.
kyphoplasty should only be done if bed rest, medicines, and physical therapy do not relieve back pain.
an artificial  cushioning device called the prosthetic disk nucleus (pdn) replaces only the  inner gel-like core (nucleus pulposus) within the intervertebral space, rather  than the entire disk. .
it is done under endoscopic and x-ray guidance.
the fda also requested manufacturers of otc nsaids to be more specific in their labels concerning potential cardiovascular and gastrointestinal risks.
these medicines often provide significant benefits.
to reduce the risks associated with nsaids, take the lowest dose possible for pain relief.
as you move up and down, tighten  stomach muscles and tuck buttocks in so that the pelvis is rolled under and the  spine remains in a natural "s' curve.
unfortunately, opioid abuse among young people is  a major concern.
a combination of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and muscle relaxants -- such as cyclobenzaprine (flexeril), diazepam (valium), carisoprodol (soma), or methocarbamol (robaxin) -- are sometimes used for patients with acute low back pain.
injuries can also cause back pain in children.
obesity puts more weight on the spine and increases pressure on the  vertebrae and disks.
however, they are not very helpful in most patients with nonspecific back pain.
the health care provider injects bone cement into the space surrounding a fractured vertebra.
patients with spinal stenosis are not usually able to walk for long periods of time.
percutaneous vertebroplasty.
cochrane database syst rev. 2007;(2):cd003010.
studies that measure the benefits of steroid injections on sciatica or low  back pain are conflicting.
press the lower back to the floor, hold for one second, and then relax.
this is  called an autograft.
freeman bj, davenport j. total disc replacement in the lumbar spine: a systematic review of the literature.
a technique called  percutaneous neuromodulation therapy (pnt) uses a small device that delivers  electrical stimulation to deep tissues and nerve pathways near the spine.
it involves inserting small needles or exerting pressure on certain "energy" points in the body.
it should be noted that surgery does not always improve outcome and, in  some cases, can even make it worse.
the back is highly complex, and pain may result from damage or injury to any of its various bones, nerves, muscles, ligaments, and other structures.
the injection is placed into the epidural space, just inside the outer membrane covering the spine.
many patients with acute and uncomplicated low back pain believe that plain x-rays of the spinal column are important in a diagnosis.
nonpharmacologic therapies for acute and chronic low back pain: a review of the evidence for an american pain society/american college of physicians clinical practice guideline.
philadelphia, pa: mosby elsevier; 2007.
stand as close as possible to the object being lifted.
it is done to  prevent any movement in a certain area of the spine.
while sitting, the  knees should be a little higher than the hip, so a low stool or hassock is  useful to put the feet on.
depending on the severity of the symptoms, how long they have been present, and any associated medical problems, history and physical exam alone may or may not be sufficient.
exercise plays a very beneficial role in chronic back pain.
starting intensive exercise 4 - 6 weeks after a first-time disk surgery  appears to be very helpful for speeding up recovery.
patients should also be  aware that some chiropractors use alternative treatments that have not been  proven or rigorously studied.
also reviewed by david zieve, md, mha, medical  director, a.d.a.m., inc.
chronic low back pain: physical training, graded activity with problem solving training, or both?
the muscle relaxant soma can be addictive and does little more than induce sleep.
only a few randomized trials have compared this procedure with nonoperative treatment.
the cause is usually massive extrusion of the disk material.
hyperlordosis is an inborn exaggerated inward curve in the lumbar area.
if  you need to move an object to one side, point your toes in that direction and  pivot toward it.
it is important for any person who has chronic low back pain to have an exercise program.
the main nerve traveling down the leg is the sciatic nerve.
patients may experience pain or numbness, which can occur in both legs, or on just one side.
nerve conduction studies and electromyography are the electrodiagnostic tests most commonly performed.
according to one study, about a third of patients with uncomplicated low back pain significantly improved after a week; two-thirds recovered by 7 weeks.
there is also some debate about how pain develops from a herniated disk and how frequently it causes low back pain.
these are used to keep the vertebrae from moving until the bone grafts fully  heal.
gentle exercise may be recommended at  first.
surgery can be an extremely effective  approach, however, for certain patients whose severe back pain does not respond  to conservative measures.
the technique implants artificial disks (prodisc, link, sb  charite) consisting of two metal plates and a soft core.
other treatments a number of complementary and alternative treatments are used to relieve  back pain.
cochrane database syst rev.  2008;(1):cd001703.
in the majority of back pain cases, the causes are unknown.
all patients should require objective evidence on  the benefits of their treatments.
narcotics are pain-relievers that act on the central nervous system.
2007;32(19):2041-2049.
ulcers caused by nsaids are more likely to bleed than those caused by the bacteria helicobacter pylori.
therefore, the spinal column above and below the fusion is more likely to be  stressed when the spine moves, and develop problems later on.
when the fracture is the result of osteoporosis, the vertebrae in the thoracic (chest) and lower spine are usually affected, and symptoms may be worse with walking.
jobs that involve lifting, bending, and twisting into awkward positions, as well as those that cause whole-body vibration (such as long-distance truck driving), place workers at particular risk for low back pain.
symptoms are usually present or will worsen only when the person is standing or walking upright.
philadelphia, pa:  mosby elsevier; 2007.
your pain, numbness, or weakness may not get better or go away if  the disk damaged your nerve before surgery.
artificial disk replacement.
physical therapy typically includes the following: education and training the patient in correct movement.
there is evidence of benefit for spinal manipulation treatment of subacute  pain and exacerbations of chronic pain.
note: no one with low back pain should perform exercises that require  bending over right after getting up in the morning.
the pain most often occurs on one side and may radiate to the buttocks, legs, and feet.
the benefits of nsaids for chronic back pain are less certain.
the injection is directed as close to the location of the affected nerve as  possible.
there is controversy whether performing a fusion procedure along with these procedures is needed.
surgery and invasive procedures the health care provider should give patients solid information on the  expected course of their low back pain and self-care options before discussing  surgery.
while supported on hands and knees, lift and straighten right hand and  left leg at the same time.
however, healing takes several weeks.
proton-pump inhibitor (ppi) drugs may help prevent and heal ulcers caused by nsaids.
medications for acute and chronic low back pain: a review of the evidence for an american pain society/american college of physicians clinical practice guideline.
opioid pain relievers narcotics are pain-relievers that act on the central nervous system.
cartilage between the joints of the spine is destroyed and extra bone growth or bone spurs develop.
partial sit-ups or crunches strengthen the  abdominal muscles.
2007;32(3):291-298; discussion  299-300.
pain may temporarily feel worse, but after  healing, the disk shrinks and becomes desensitized to pain.
the following are three exercises for stretching the lower back: note: no one with low back pain should perform exercises that require bending over right after getting up in the morning.
news release usdl  07-1741, november 8, 2007.
it usually does not cause pain unless the vertebrae collapse suddenly, in which case the pain is often severe.
symptoms may include: pain generally occurs with activity and is better with rest.
etanercept (enbrel) and infliximab (remicade), anti-inflammatory agents known as tnf-blockers, are proving to be beneficial.
intradiscal electrothermal treatment (idet).
patients should generally try all possible non-surgical treatments before  opting for surgery.
ankylosing spondylitis is a chronic inflammation of the spine that may gradually result in a fusion of vertebrae.
it used to be grouped under juvenile rheumatoid arthritis, but is now defined as a separate problem.
people vulnerable to back pain should avoid activities that put undue stress on the lower back or require sudden twisting movements, such as football, golf, ballet, and weight lifting.
such leakage could cause damage to soft tissues and nerves.
kyphoplasty should  only be done if bed rest, medicines, and physical therapy do not relieve back  pain.
hayden ja, van tulder mw, malmivaara av, et al.
2007;167(17):1892-1898.
avoid lifting or carrying objects immediately  after the ride.
disk disease, spinal arthritis, and muscle spasms are the most common diagnoses.
some recurrence of back pain and sciatica occurs in half to two-thirds of  postoperative patients.
it is more common in adults over 65 and women.
nonfatal occupational  injuries and illnesses requiring days away from work, 2006.
it is done instead of spinal fusion surgery, but has not yet been shown to be superior to it.
abnormalities in the annular ring.
starting intensive exercise 4 - 6 weeks after a first-time disk surgery appears to be very helpful for speeding up recovery.
the long-term benefits are of these procedures are unknown, however.
while the drug has opioid-like properties, it is not as addictive.
the pain is typically more spread out in the muscles next to the spine, and may be associated with spasms in those muscles.
exhale on the way up, and inhale on the way down.
jogging is usually  not recommended, at least not until the pain is gone and muscles are stronger.
in a compression fracture of the vertebrae, the bone tissue of the vertebra collapses.
imaging tests used to evaluate back pain range from a simple x-ray to a ct scan or mri of the spine.
" each vertebra is designated by using a letter and number, allowing the doctor to determine where it is in the spine.
physiotherapy-based rehabilitation following disc herniation operation: results of a randomized clinical trial.
the one-year post-treatment results of a randomized controlled trial.
white willow bark, bromelain, and boswellia have blood-thinning properties  and can interfere with anticoagulant medications, such as warfarin (coumadin).
some studies have shown that massage therapy can help some patients with  chronic or acute back pain, especially when combined with exercise and patient  education.
lift using the leg muscles, not those in the back.
although no definitive studies have been done to prove the relationship between lack of exercise and low back pain, some doctors believe that an inactive lifestyle may be to blame in some cases.
laminectomy is surgery to remove either the lamina, two small bones that make up a vertebra, or bone spurs in your back.
it is done to prevent any movement in a certain area of the spine.
exercises performed after a simple diskectomy do not seem to provide much  added benefit over time.
the potential for serious adverse effects from low back manipulations is low.
a number of companies are developing programs to protect against back injuries.
the analysis found back pain cost over $90 billion, of which $26 billion was spent directly on treating the back pain.
in fact, overexertion may cause further harm.
2009;373(9668):1016-24.
your surgeon will make a small cut over your hip and  remove some bone from the back of the rim of the pelvis.
electrical stimulation percutaneous neuromodulation therapy.
one study indicated that patients who  planned their own exercise program did worse than those in physical therapy or  doctor-directed programs.
chiropractic was founded in the u.s. in the late 1800s.
a number of complementary and alternative treatments are used to relieve back pain.
when tested in high-quality studies, electrical nerve stimulation has not been found to provide much help.
evidence has shown that they can help relieve non-specific low back pain, but some experts warn that these drugs should be used cautiously, since they target the brain, not the muscles.
neurological damage (leg weakness or changes in sensation) may result from pressure on nerve roots, and may cause pain radiating down the legs.
therefore, the spinal column above and below the fusion is more likely to be stressed when the spine moves, and develop problems later on.
patients should generally try all possible non-surgical treatments before opting for surgery.
due to its proven heart benefits, aspirin was excluded from these labeling revisions.
there are two types of narcotics: opioids are effective for short-term relief of back pain.
ongoing or maintenance spinal manipulation has not been proven to alter the course of chronic back pain.
other possible side effects of nsaids may include: long-term use of nsaids is the second most common cause of ulcers.
there are two types of narcotics: opiates, such as morphine and codeine, are derived from natural  opium.
complementary means it is used together with conventional medicine.
however, none of these have been compared to other standard treatments.
partial sit-ups or crunches strengthen the abdominal muscles.
diskography: since many people have evidence of disk degeneration on their mri scans, it is not always easy to tell if the finding on this mri scan explains pain the patient may be experiencing.
many people have disks that bulge or protrude and do not suffer back pain.
slipped disks are one of the most common causes of lower back pain.
spread your feet apart to give yourself a wide base of support.
the end result of these changes is a gradual loss of mobility of the spine, narrowing of the spaces for spinal nerves and spinal cord, and drying out or degeneration of the spinal discs.
patients should ask their health care provider about evidence favoring surgery or other (nonsurgical) treatments in their particular case.
a randomised controlled trial  of acupuncture care for persistent low back pain: cost effectiveness analysis.
in april 2005, the food and drug administration (fda) asked drug manufacturers of prescription nsaids to include with their products the same warning label used for the cox-2 inhibitor celecoxib (celebrex).
statistics: overview: diagnosis: treatment: back pain is one of the most common reasons people visit their doctor.
it is extremely  important that the patient is sure that the health care provider has had  significant experience performing the vertebroplasty procedure.
improper or intense exercise.
yoga, tai chi, chi kung.
estimates and patterns of direct health  care expenditures among individuals with back pain in the united states.
a randomized, double-blind,  controlled trial: intradiscal electrothermal therapy versus placebo for the  treatment of chronic discogenic low back pain.
a common cause of temporary back pain in children is carrying backpacks  that are too heavy.
the information provided herein should not be  used during any medical emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any  medical condition.
some people may need medicine to help manage nighttime pain  or treat sleeplessness.
meta-analysis: exercise therapy for nonspecific low back pain.
laminectomy for spinal stenosis will often provide full or partial relief of symptoms for many patients, but it is not always successful future spine problems are possible for all patients after spine surgery.
researchers attempted to identify factors most likely to predict an  elevated risk for recurrent pain and found that only depression was a  significant factor in the majority of those who had not recovered.
serious and painful side effects, including meningitis and inflammation,  are possible.