patients should practice good dental hygiene, including regular brushing and flossing.
methotrexate is usually given as pills.
heavy long-term smoking is a very strong risk factor for ra, particularly in patients without a family history of the disease.
rarely, nodules may become sore and infected, particularly if they are in locations where stress occurs, such as the ankles.
ra symptoms increase gradually during the night, reaching their greatest severity at the time of awakening.
they are about the size of a pea or slightly larger, and are often located near the elbow, although they can show up anywhere.
however, the sed rate can be high in many conditions ranging from infection to inflammation to tumors.
they include nausea and vomiting, rash, mild hair loss, headache, mouth sores, and muscle aches.
methotrexate is often combined with hydroxychloroquine, sulfasalzine, or leflunomide.
symptoms in children in children, juvenile rheumatoid arthritis, also known as still's disease,  is usually preceded by high fever and shaking chills along with pain and  swelling in many joints.
back to top it is important to maintain a balance between rest (which will reduce inflammation) and moderate exercise (which will relieve stiffness and weakness).
there are two injectable forms of gold: gold sodium thiomalate (myochrysine) and aurothioglucose (solganal).
clinical features of rheumatoid arthritis.
these antibodies circulate widely in the  bloodstream, recognizing the foreign particles and triggering inflammation in  order to rid the body of the invasion.
the addition of a corticosteroid to any combination may also be helpful.
sulfasalazine (azulfidine) was developed in the 1930s for treating rheumatoid arthritis, but fell into disfavor when gold treatment emerged.
the presence of antibodies to cyclic citrullinated peptides (ccp) can identify ra years before symptoms develop.
goekoop-ruiterman yp, de vries-bouwstra jk, allaart cf, van zeben d, kerstens pj, hazes jm,, et al.
a proper diagnosis can be made with a detailed medical history, laboratory tests, and detection in the affected joint of crystals calledmonosodium urate (msu), which identifies gout.
in addition, anti-tnf drugs (infliximab, etanercept, adalimumab) should not be given to patients with a history of heart failure, a history of lymphoma, or who have multiple sclerosis or other demyelinating disorders.
combining dmards with each other or with drugs in other categories offers the best approach for many patients.
withdrawal from long-term use of oral corticosteroids.
osteoporosis, a disorder in which bone density  decreases, is more common than average in postmenopausal women with ra.
pdus may be reliable for monitoring inflammatory activity in the joint.
the pannus produces more enzymes that destroy nearby cartilage,  aggravating the area and attracting more inflammatory white cells, thereby  perpetuating the process.
dec 1;370(9602):1861-74.
in rheumatoid arthritis, an abnormal immune system response produces  destructive molecules that cause continuous inflammation of the synovium.
back to top chen yf, jobanputra p, barton p, jowett s, bryan s, clark w, et al.
fluid buildup fluid may accumulate, particularly in the ankles.
the biologic dmards abatacept (orencia)and rituximab (rituxan) should be  reserved for patients with at least moderate disease activity and poor disease  prognosis who were not helped by methotrexate and other nonbiologic dmards.
qus,  which is used for osteoporosis, can detect bone loss in fingers, which may  prove to be a good indicator of early ra.
back to top causes the exact causes of rheumatoid arthritis are unknown.
under normal conditions, the immune system has other special factors that  control and limit this inflammatory process.
both rheumatoid arthritis itself and some treatments may cause this  damage.
side effects of the treatments often contribute to the severity of the disease.
imaging techniques x-rays.
it is essential, therefore, to  seek a doctor's help as soon as symptoms develop.
specific findings or presentation more likely to suggest the diagnosis of rheumatoid arthritis include morning stiffness, involvement of three joints at the same time, involvement of both sides of the body, subcutaneous nodules, positive rheumatoid factor, changes in x-rays.
some researchers think they may stimulate the immune system to prolong ra once the disease has been triggered by some other initial infection.
the use of a technique known as dual energy x-ray  absorptiometry, however, may be useful in detecting early bone loss in  rheumatoid arthritis (2 - 27 months after onset).
minocycline can cause yeast infections in women.
blood tests are  needed often to determine the amount of red blood cells (hemoglobin and  hematocrit) and iron (soluble transferrin receptor and serum ferritin) in the  blood.
affected joints can become deformed, and the performance of even ordinary tasks may be very difficult or impossible.
many other conditions resemble it and its symptoms can develop insidiously.
in such cases, artificial (prosthetic) replacement joint implants may be considered for knees, hips, or other joints.
smolen js, aletaha d, koeller m, weisman mh, emery p. new therapies for treatment of rheumatoid arthritis.
it is located in only one or a few joints.
various blood tests may be used to help diagnose ra, determine its severity, and detect complications of the disease.
this sac is filled with lubricating liquid called the synovial fluid.
etanercept, adalimumab, and anakinra are given by injection and may cause pain at the injection site.
symptom relief occurs within 1 - 3 months.
these drugs block prostaglandins, the substances that dilate blood vessels and cause inflammation and pain.
rarely,  nodules may become sore and infected, particularly if they are in locations  where stress occurs, such as the ankles.
the most serious side effects of gold injections, while rare, are kidney damage and decreased white blood cell count.
although rheumatoid arthritis almost always develops in the wrists and  knuckles, the knees and joints of the ball of the foot are often affected as  well.
minocycline (minocin) is a tetracycline antibiotic that is generally reserved for patients with mild ra.
severe skin disease can reflects a more  serious case of ra in general.
although type 2 rheumatoid arthritis is progressive and there is no cure, over time the disease becomes less aggressive, and symptoms may even improve.
others are used for patients who have not responded to dmards or other types of treatment.
rheumatoid arthritis is most likely triggered by a combination of factors, including an abnormal autoimmune response, genetic susceptibility, and some environmental or biologic trigger, such as a viral infection or hormonal changes.
indeed, many joints may be involved, including those in the cervical spine, shoulders, elbows, tips, temporomandibular joint (jaw), and even joints between very small bones in the inner ear.
long-term studies are needed.
higher than average levels of antibodies that react with the common intestinal bacteriae. coli have appeared in the synovial fluid of people with ra.
goldberg rj, katz j. a meta-analysis of the analgesic effects of omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acid supplementation for inflammatory joint pain.
many were used for other diseases and were found accidentally to help ra.
the  pain often occurs symmetrically but may be more severe on one side of the body,  depending on which hand the person uses more often.
skin problems are common, particularly on the  fingers and under the nails.
the three approved anti-tnf dmards are  etanercept (enbrel), infliximab (remicade), and adalimumab (humira).
the inflamed joints are  usually swollen and often feel warm and "boggy" when touched.
2006 nov;10(42):iii-iv, xi-xiii, 1-229.
physical injuries, infections, and poor circulation are among the  many problems that can cause aches and pains.
patients should discuss with their doctor measures for preventing adrenal insufficiency during withdrawal, particularly during stressful times, when the risk increases.
rheumatoid arthritis does not  usually show up in the fingertips, where osteoarthritis is common, but joints  at the base of the fingers are often painful.
(in fact, osteoarthritis is  probably most often confused with rheumatoid arthritis if it affects multiple  joints in the body.)
magnetic resonance imaging.
symptoms include redness  of the eye and a gritty sensation.
swelling and pain in the joints must occur for at least 6 weeks before a diagnosis of rheumatoid arthritis is considered.
like azathioprine, cyclosporine (sandimmune, neoral) is an immunosuppressant.
it is sometimes difficult to distinguish chronic gout in older people from rheumatoid arthritis, however, since gout in this population can occur in a number of joints.
this cyst feels like a tumor and sometimes extends down the back of the calf  causing pain.
although many bacteria and viruses have been studied, no  single organism has been proven to be the primary trigger for the autoimmune  response and subsequent damaging inflammation.
this cyst feels like a tumor and sometimes extends down the back of the calf causing pain.
it also may inhibit metalloproteinases (mmp), which are involved in cartilage destruction.
in rare cases, minocycline can affect the kidneys and liver.
a pink skin rash may be present.
patients who need higher doses can take it as an injection.
in ra, antibodies that collect in the synovium of the joint are known asrheumatoid factor.
if the t cell recognizes an antigen as "non-self," it will  produce chemicals (cytokines) that cause b cells to multiply and release many  immune proteins (antibodies).
specially designed magnetic resonance  imaging (mri) equipment called extremity mri may be able detect bone erosions  in the hands of ra patients where x-rays cannot.
back to top introduction rheumatoid arthritis (ra) is a chronic disease in which various joints in  the body are inflamed, leading to swelling, pain, stiffness, and the possible  loss of function.
twitter digg facebook  more... email print rss description  an  in-depth report on the causes, diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of  rheumatoid arthritis.
high levels of c-reactive protein (crp) are also  indicators of active inflammation.
leflunomide takes several weeks before improving joint pain or swelling.
smolen js, keystone ec, emery p, breedveld fc, betteridge n, burmester gr,.
the fda is investigating the possible association between use of anti-tnf  drugs and the occurrence of lymphomas and other cancers in children and young  adults who took these drugs for treatment of juvenile rheumatoid arthritis.
this inflammatory process not only affects cartilage and bones but can also  harm organs in other parts of the body.
biologic response modifiers are drugs made from living cells.
the infection fighters.
disease specific subtypes osteoarthritis infectious arthritis lyme disease, septic arthritis, bacterial endocarditis, mycobacterial and fungal arthritis, viral arthritis postinfectious or reactive arthritis reiter syndrome (a disorder characterized by arthritis and inflammation in the eye and urinary tract), rheumatic fever, inflammatory bowel disease crystal induced arthritis gout and pseudogout other rheumatic autoimmune diseases systemic vasculitis, systemic lupus erythematosus, scleroderma, still's disease (also called juvenile rheumatoid arthritis), behcet's disease other diseases chronic fatigue syndrome, hepatitis c, familial mediterranean fever, cancers, aids, leukemia, whipple's disease, dermatomyositis, henoch-schonlein purpura, kawasaki's disease, erythema nodosum, erythema multiforme, pyoderma gangrenosum, psoriatic arthritis
if vision problems occur, it is usually with people taking very high doses, those with kidney disease, or those over 60 years of age.
symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis can be mimicked by things as benign as a bad mattress or as serious as cancer.
wang c, de pablo p, chen x, schmid c, mcalindon t. acupuncture for pain relief in patients with rheumatoid arthritis: a systematic review.
patients who experience arthritis in only a few joints do better than those with more widespread (systemic) disease, which is very difficult to treat.
click the icon to see an image of rheumatoid arthritis.
specific joints affected
as with other rheumatoid arthritis drugs, these drugs do not cure the disease but can help slow progression and joint damage.
synovectomy is a procedure whereby the diseased joint lining is removed.
the normal immune system response.
infliximab, abatacept and rituximab are given by intravenous infusion.
diseases with symptoms similar to rheumatoid arthritis disease
x-rays generally have not been helpful to detect the  presence of early rheumatoid arthritis because they cannot show images of soft  tissue.
dmards include nonbiologic and biologic  drugs.
early combination therapy with dmards and corticosteroids is also showing good results.
(stiffness from osteoarthritis, for instance,  usually clears up within half an hour.)
stem cells are the early versions of mature, specialized blood cells.
although these severe reactions are rare, they may include: leflunomide.
other side effects include skin rash and headache.
although many bacteria and viruses have been studied, no single organism has been proven to be the primary trigger for the autoimmune response and subsequent damaging inflammation.
family history some people may inherit genes that make them more susceptible to developing  ra, but a family history of ra does not appear to increase an individual's risk.
gout also causes swelling and severe pain in a joint, although  most commonly starting in one joint.
the main genetic marker identified with rheumatoid arthritis is hla (human leukocyte antigen).
some research suggests that compounds derived from statins, the highly regarded cholesterol-lowering drugs, may suppress the inflammation responsible for ra damage.
periodontal disease.
a number of rare genetic diseases attack the joints.
other common side effects include headache, nausea, vomiting, stomach pain and upset, and swelling of hands and feet.
cyclosporine can also cause gout or worsen gout in people who have this condition.
after withdrawal from these drugs, this so-called adrenal suppression persists and it can take the body a while (sometimes up to a year) to regain its ability to produce natural steroids again.
doctors may prescribe folic acid supplements to prevent side effects.
back to top rheumatoid arthritis can be difficult to diagnose.
donahue ke, gartlehner g, jonas de, lux lj, thieda p, jonas bl, et al.
consensus statement on the use of rituximab in patients with rheumatoid arthritis.
[epub ahead of print] firestein gs. .
some patients with severe disease may then be at higher risk for complications, such as the following: juvenile rheumatoid arthritis often resolves before adulthood.
gold injections are not usually given to pregnant women.
methotrexate (rheumatrex, trexall) acts as an anti-inflammatory drug and is now the most frequently used dmard, particularly for severe disease.
new drug treatment guidelines in 2008, the american college of rheumatology (acr) released new guidelines for the use of disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (dmards) for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis (ra).
an erythrocyte sedimentation rate (esr or sed rate) measures how fast red blood cells (erythrocytes) fall to the bottom of a fine glass tube that is filled with the patient's blood.
furst de, breedveld fc, kalden jr, smolen js, burmester gr, sieper j, et al.
gold is usually administered in an injected form because the oral form, auranofin (ridaura), is much less effective.
macrophage activation syndrome (mas) is a life-threatening complication of juvenile rheumatoid arthritis and requires immediate treatment with high-dose steroids and cyclosporin a. parents should be aware of symptoms, which include persistent fever, weakness, drowsiness, and lethargy.
these genetic factors do not cause ra, but they may make  the disease more severe once it has developed.
it is used when more conservative measures fail, particularly in the wrist.
minocycline increases sensitivity to sunlight and patients should be sure to wear sunscreen.
people often turn to alternative therapies or nontraditional remedies to relieve the pain of rheumatoid arthritis.
although rheumatoid arthritis only rarely involves the  kidney, many of the drugs used to treat it can damage kidneys.
depending on the specific drug, they may be used alone or in combination with the dmard methotrexate.
patients who have not been helped by one drug often benefit from a combination of drugs.
higher than average levels of  antibodies that react with the common intestinal bacteriae. coli have  appeared in the synovial fluid of people with ra.
gender women are more likely to develop ra than men.
it differs from ra in several  important respects.
philadelphia, pa: saunders elsevier; 2005:chap 66.
the acr's current recommendations include: methotrexate (rheumatrex) or leflunomide (arava) as initial therapy for  most patients with ra methotrexate plus hydroxychloroquine (plaquenil) for patients with  moderate-to-high disease activity methotrexate plus hydroxychloroquine plus sulfasalazine (azulfidine) for  patients with poor prognostic features and moderate-to-high levels of disease  activity.
side effects of the  treatments often contribute to the severity of the disease.
skin side effects include itching and rash, which can be severe in some patients.
(stiffness from osteoarthritis, for instance, usually clears up within half an hour.)
it would be impossible to discuss in this report the dozens of all conditions with symptoms of joint aches and pains.
it is essential, therefore, to seek a doctor's help as soon as symptoms develop.
azathioprine can cause serious problems with the gastrointestinal tract.
however, when it appears in patients with arthritic  pain on both sides of the body, it is a strong indicator of type 2 ra.
people with ra may develop anemia, which involves a  decrease in the number of red blood cells.
environmental triggers infections.
smoking heavy long-term smoking is a very strong risk factor for ra, particularly  in patients without a family history of the disease.
methotrexate reduces levels of folic acid (folate) in the body, which can lead to some of these side effects.
side effects are common, particularly stomach and intestinal distress, which usually occur early in the course of treatment.
although rheumatoid arthritis can occur at any age from childhood to old  age, onset usually begins between the ages of 30 - 50.
severity of juvenile rheumatoid arthritis juvenile rheumatoid arthritis often resolves before adulthood.
american college of rheumatology 2008 recommendations for the use of nonbiologic and biologic disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs in rheumatoid arthritis.
dmards include: unfortunately, all dmards tend to lose effectiveness over time, even methotrexate.
manifestations of vasculitis include mouth ulcers, nerve disorders, rapid  worsening of the lungs, inflammation of coronary arteries, and inflammation of  the arteries supplying blood to the intestines.
2007 feb; 66(2):143-50.
saag kg, teng gg, patkar nm, anuntiyo j, finney c, curtis jr, et al.
back to top highlights new drug treatment guidelines in 2008, the american college of rheumatology (acr) released new guidelines  for the use of disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (dmards) for the  treatment of rheumatoid arthritis (ra).
genetic variations in the hla  region may also predict drug treatment response to etanercept and the  disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drug methotrexate.
oct;121(10 suppl 1):s3-8.
it can result in tingling, numbness, or  burning.
specially designed magnetic resonance imaging (mri) equipment called extremity mri may be able detect bone erosions in the hands of ra patients where x-rays cannot.
studies have suggested that even as little as 3 hours of physical therapy over 6 weeks will help people with ra, and that these benefits are sustained.
back to top complications rheumatoid arthritis is not fatal, but complications of the disease may  shorten survival by a few years in some individuals.
even after remaining motionless for a  few moments, the body can stiffen.
blood tests and x-rays may show normal results for months after the onset of joint pain.
other adverse effects include cataracts, glaucoma, diabetes, fluid retention, susceptibility to infections, weight gain, hypertension, capillary fragility, acne, excess hair growth, wasting of the muscles, menstrual irregularities, irritability, insomnia, and, rarely, psychosis.
people with ra may be twice as likely as  non-arthritic individuals to have periodontal disease.
other areas of intense research include interleukin receptor antagonists, which target cytokines involved in the inflammatory process.
(in some cases, however, they may be less harmful than long-term nsaid treatment.)
it may also be combined with various biological response modifier drugs, especially for treatment of patients with early aggressive arthritis.
patients with ra are more likely than  healthy patients to develop non-hodgkin's lymphoma.
drug warnings in 2008, the fda alerted health care professionals to monitor patients  taking anti-tnf drugs for signs of opportunistic infections, particularly  fungal infections and tuberculosis.
the hip  is particularly affected.
blood tests and x-rays  may show normal results for months after the onset of joint pain.
movement becomes easier again after  loosening up.
in some cases, the joint  sac behind the knee accumulates fluid and forms what is known as a baker cyst.
the procedure is promising in select cases, but it can be highly toxic.
other potential triggers include  mycoplasma, parvovirus b19, retroviruses, mycobacteria, and epstein-barr virus.
a coated-tablet form may help reduce side effects.
the immune response and inflammatory process the normal immune system response.
two important components of the immune  system that play a role in the inflammation associated with rheumatoid  arthritis areb cells and t cells, both of which belong to a  family of immune cells called lymphocytes.
patients who  experience arthritis in only a few joints do better than those with more  widespread (systemic) disease, which is very difficult to treat.
on rare occasions, nodules can reflect the presence of rheumatoid vasculitis, a condition that can affect blood vessels in the lungs, kidneys, or other organs.
side effects include upset stomach, dizziness, and skin rash.
rituxan's label now includes updated information on the risks for  progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (pml), a rare and deadly brain  infection.
in some cases, the joint sac behind the knee accumulates fluid and forms what is known as a baker cyst.
blood tests are needed often to determine the amount of red blood cells (hemoglobin and hematocrit) and iron (soluble transferrin receptor and serum ferritin) in the blood.
it starts to improve symptoms within 1 - 2 months, but may take up to 6 months to achieve full benefit.
am j med. 2008 oct;121(10 suppl 1):s9-14.
philadelphia, pa: saunders elsevier; 2007:chap 285.
some people describe them as being similar to those of a cold or flu except, of course, ra symptoms can last for years.
it may be more effective when used in combination with other dmards or other drugs.
the most serious and common side effects of cyclosporine are high blood pressure and kidney function problems.
although rheumatoid arthritis almost always develops in the wrists and knuckles, the knees and joints of the ball of the foot are often affected as well.
the process may develop in the following way: this inflammatory process not only affects cartilage and bones but can also harm organs in other parts of the body.
rheumatoid arthritis does not usually show up in the fingertips, where osteoarthritis is common, but joints at the base of the fingers are often painful.
although the influence of stress or emotions on the progression of ra is not fully known, having a history of major depression that persists or reoccurs seems to increase the pain, disability, and fatigue.
just like a drug, herbs and supplements can affect the body's chemistry, and therefore have the potential to produce side effects that may be harmful.
in  combination with the test for rheumatoid factor, the ccp antibody test is the  best predictor of which patients will go on to develop severe ra.
subclinical atherosclerosis in rheumatoid arthritis and systemic lupus erythematosus.
no one should stop taking any steroids without consulting a doctor first, and if steroids are withdrawn, regular follow-up monitoring is necessary.
the main genetic marker  identified with rheumatoid arthritis is hla (human leukocyte antigen).
unicompartmental knee arthroplasty (also called unicondylar knee arthroplasty) may be a useful procedure in some cases of limited damage in the knee.
full benefits may not occur until 6- 12 weeks of treatment.
still, they are often used under the following conditions: side effects of oral corticosteroids.
long-term use of nsaids is also the second most common cause of ulcers and gastrointestinal bleeding.
other potential triggers include mycoplasma, parvovirus b19, retroviruses, mycobacteria, and epstein-barr virus.
special ultrasound techniques called power doppler ultrasonography (pdus) or quantitative ultrasound (qus) may be helpful in ra.
the immune system is then called upon to repair wounds by  clotting off any bleeding blood vessel and initiating fiber-like patches to the  tissue.
however, over a longer period of time, it is not clear whether a drug combination approach offers many advantages over single drugs.
it also does not appear to slow disease progression.
comparison of treatment strategies in early rheumatoid arthritis: a randomized trial.
special ultrasound techniques called power doppler  ultrasonography (pdus) or quantitative ultrasound (qus) may be helpful in ra.
still, patients should have an eye exam (including retinal examination) within the first year of treatment.
ra's chronic inflammatory  process may play a role in the development of lymphoma.
the presence of antibodies to cyclic  citrullinated peptides (ccp) can identify ra years before symptoms develop.
if the t cell recognizes an antigen as "non-self," it will produce chemicals (cytokines) that cause b cells to multiply and release many immune proteins (antibodies).
unicompartmental knee arthroplasty.
the test is used, then, not for diagnosis, but to help determine how active the condition is.
serious side effects are associated with long-term use of oral steroids.
analyzing the synovial fluid might prove to be helpful in detecting markers of joint destruction, but this is not commonly performed.
in about 80% of cases of ra,  blood tests reveal rheumatoid factor.
even after remaining motionless for a few moments, the body can stiffen.
it is sometimes difficult to distinguish  chronic gout in older people from rheumatoid arthritis, however, since gout in  this population can occur in a number of joints.
celecoxib (celebrex) is still available, but patients should ask their doctor whether the drug is appropriate and safe for them.
arthroscopy is performed to clean out bone and cartilage fragments that cause pain and inflammation.
although this procedure has usually been performed in people over 60, implants are now lasting 20 years and more and younger patients with severe disability are finding them useful.
anemia is a common complication.
this condition affects the nerves, most  often those in the hands and feet.
new research is now examining the role of b cells, which become overactive in autoimmune disease, and how b cell depletion may help to reduce disease activity.
to reduce the risks associated with nsaids, take the lowest dose possible for pain relief.
for many years, therapeutic treatment of rheumatoid arthritis focused on t cell mediation.
however, following numerous reports of heart problems, skin rashes, and other adverse effects, the fda re-evaluated the risks and benefits of this drug class.
all dmards may produce stomach and intestinal side effects, and, over the long-term, each poses some risk for rare but serious reactions.
back to top certain surgical techniques may be helpful for people with severe deformities or disabilities.
health technol assess.
it can also show up in blood tests of  people with other diseases.
they are used either alone or in combination with newer biologic dmards.
movement becomes easier again after loosening up.
rheumatoid arthritis can affect other parts of the body as well as the joints.
the procedure is not widely available and is somewhat controversial, since the implants may not be as reliable as those in total knee replacement.
swelling and pain swelling and pain in the joints must occur for at least 6 weeks before a  diagnosis of rheumatoid arthritis is considered.
if bone and ligament destruction and any deformities have  occurred, however, the effects are permanent.
it has regained popularity, however, and is now used for both adult and juvenile ra.
scleritis and episcleritis.
vasculitis involves autoimmune inflammatory  abnormalities in very small vessels and can affect many organs in the body.
in 2006, the fda approved celecoxib for the relief of symptoms of juvenile rheumatoid arthritis in patients ages 2 years and older.
many of the current investigational drugs are monoclonal antibodies (mabs), biologic drugs that are designed to target specific receptors.
although there is no definitive evidence to support their efficacy, some alternative procedures -- such as acupuncture, massage, mineral baths (balneotherapy), relaxation techniques, biofeedback, and hypnosis -- are not harmful and may be a useful adjunct to standard treatments.
however, when it appears in patients with arthritic pain on both sides of the body, it is a strong indicator of type 2 ra.
if only a certain section (the medial compartment) of the knee is damaged and deformed, the surgeon may choose to perform osteotomy: the procedure is best used in heavier adults who are under 60 years old.
patients with health risks (liver disease, retinal disease, over age 60) should have an annual eye exam.
philadelphia, pa: saunders elsevier; 2005:chap 65.
osteoarthritis requires some special mention because it is the most common form of arthritis.
(however, serious gastrointestinal side effects, such as stomach ulcers, occur less frequently with sulfasalazine than with nsaids.)
dmards include nonbiologic and biologic drugs.
treatments for ra are increasingly effective in slowing this debilitating  disease, and some may even prevent initial destruction by aggressively reducing  inflammation.
the  presence of rheumatoid factor plus evidence of bone damage on x-rays also  suggests a significant chance for progressive joint damage.
systematic review: comparative effectiveness and harms of disease-modifying medications for rheumatoid arthritis.
side effects and complications.
it retains important knee ligaments, which should preserve more movement than a total knee replacement.
a number of rare genetic diseases attack  the joints.
there have been a few cases of severe adrenal insufficiency that occurred when switching from oral to inhaled steroids, which, in rare cases, has resulted in death.
a proper diagnosis can be made  with a detailed medical history, laboratory tests, and detection in the  affected joint of crystals calledmonosodium urate (msu), which  identifies gout.
methotrexate has fewer serious toxic effects than many dmards.
gold has been a long-standing dmard for rheumatoid arthritis, although its use has decreased with the development of disease modifying and biologic drugs.
patients should notify their doctors if they experience any sudden changes in vision.
some patients with severe disease may then be at higher risk for  complications, such as the following: peripheral neuropathy.
on rare occasions, nodules can reflect  the presence of rheumatoid vasculitis, a condition that can affect blood  vessels in the lungs, kidneys, or other organs.
it takes 6 - 8 weeks for early symptom improvement and up to 12 weeks for full benefit.
for longer duration ra, anti-tnf drugs are recommended for patients who have  not been helped by methotrexate.
it differs from ra in several important respects.
hydroxychloroquine (plaquenil) was originally used for preventing malaria and is now also used for mild, slowly progressive arthritis.
generally, manufacturers of herbal remedies and dietary supplements do not need fda approval to sell their products.
genetic factors may play some role in ra either in terms of increasing susceptibility to developing the condition or by worsening the disease process but are clearly not the only important factors.
researchers are currently conducting studies to determine if supplements extracted from the turmeric spice can help prevent joint inflammation.
complications in other areas of the body rheumatoid arthritis can affect other parts of the body as well as the  joints.
back to top the hallmark symptom of rheumatoid arthritis is morning stiffness that lasts for at least an hour.
cardiovascular morbidity and mortality in rheumatoid arthritis.
research suggests that he chronic inflammation  associated with ra may be a factor.
for reasons that are still not completely understood, both the t cells and the b cells become overactive in patients with ra.
long-term use of minocycline can cause changes in skin color, but this side effect usually disappears once the medication is stopped.
analyzing the synovial fluid might prove to be helpful in detecting markers  of joint destruction, but this is not commonly performed.
erythrocyte sedimentation rate test.
herbal remedies used for ra include boswellia, equisetum arvense (horsetail), devil's claw, borage seed oil, and many others.
leflunomide may be given alone or in combination with other dmards such as methotrexate (this combination poses a risk for liver toxicity and requires monitoring.)
many such devices made from a variety of light materials are available and can be very helpful when worn properly.
to prevent injection reactions, patients are sometimes pretreated with betamethasone, a corticosteroid drug, but some research suggests that the steroid does little good.
according to one survey, 70% of patients with rheumatoid arthritis feel the disease prevents them from living a fully productive life.
in about 20% of people with ra, inflammation of small blood vessels can  cause nodules, or lumps, under the skin.
promising biologic drug candidates in late-stage research include tocilizumab (actemra), golimumab, denosumab, ofatumumab, certolizumab, and baminercept.
click the icon to see an image of  rheumatoid arthritis.
even after  rheumatoid arthritis has been diagnosed, it is extremely important to determine  whether the course of the disease is benign (type 1) or aggressive (type 2) in  order to treat the problem appropriately.
biologic dmards should not be taken by patients with active bacterial infections, active herpes-zoster viral infection, active or latent tuberculosis, or active or chronic hepatitis b or c.
there has also been  concern that some ra treatments may increase the risk for lymphoma.
the most common side effects are nausea and diarrhea, which typically improve over time or when the drug is taken with food.
depending on your particular health condition, and how you respond to the drugs prescribed, your doctor may try various treatment strategies.
some people may inherit genes that make them more susceptible to developing ra, but a family history of ra does not appear to increase an individual's risk.
the most common pain relievers for ra are nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (nsaids).
hydroxycholoroquine usually causes less side effects than other dmards.
about 10% of patients who take cyclosporine develop tremors, increased hair growth, muscle cramps, and numbing or tingling in hands and feet (neuropathy).
it is intended to relieve pain and preserve function as long as possible before a total knee replacement is necessary.
side effects from the prosorba column may include anemia, fatigue, itching, fever, a drop in blood pressure, and nausea.
the presence of rheumatoid factor plus evidence of bone damage on x-rays also suggests a significant chance for progressive joint damage.
gout also causes swelling and severe pain in a joint, although most commonly starting in one joint.
methotrexate it starts working within 3 - 6 weeks, but its full effect may not occur until after 12 weeks of treatment.
eventually, even after these procedures, rheumatoid arthritis may progress to the point that normal functioning is impossible.
some people describe them as being similar to those of a  cold or flu except, of course, ra symptoms can last for years.
azathioprine can also cause problems with liver function and pancreas gland inflammation, and can reduce white blood cell count.
evidence of damage on x-rays along with elevated rheumatoid factor is a significant predictor for progressive joint destruction.
in children, juvenile rheumatoid arthritis, also known as still's disease, is usually preceded by high fever and shaking chills along with pain and swelling in many joints.
the masses of blood cells that gather at the injured or infected site  produce factors to repair wounds, clot the blood, and fight any infections.
patients rarely use one drug for more than 2 years.
however, because obesity also increases crp levels, the doctor should consider a patient's body mass index when evaluating crp levels during ra diagnosis.
according to the arthritis foundation, rheumatoid arthritis (ra) affects about 1.3 million americans.
the best source of fish oil is through increased consumption of fatty fish such as salmon, mackerel, and herring.
in about 80% of cases of ra, blood tests reveal rheumatoid factor.
coxibs inhibit an inflammation-promoting enzyme called cox-2.
the inflamed joints are usually swollen and often feel warm and "boggy" when touched.
the chinese medicine herb tripterygium wilfordii hook f (twhf) is also being investigated for its anti-inflammatory properties.
in the process the surrounding area becomes inflamed and some healthy  tissue is injured.
women with ra have an increased risk for premature  delivery.
patients with ra have a higher risk for infections,  particularly if they are treated only with immune-suppressing drugs  (corticosteroids, anti-tumor necrosis factors, disease modifying drugs).
medications that can prevent osteoporosis include calcium supplements, parathyroid hormone, or bisphosphonates (such as alendronate, ibandronate, and risedronate).
effect of joint disability and pain on daily life affected joints can become deformed, and the performance of even ordinary  tasks may be very difficult or impossible.
even after rheumatoid arthritis has been diagnosed, it is extremely important to determine whether the course of the disease is benign (type 1) or aggressive (type 2) in order to treat the problem appropriately.
genetic variations in the hla region may also predict drug treatment response to etanercept and the disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drug methotrexate.
long-time use, however, can have severe adverse effects.
the inflammatory process is a byproduct of the activity of the body's immune system, which fights infection and heals wounds and injuries: the infection fighters.
(low doses may reduce these risks, but they do not eliminate them.)
common infusion reactions include headache, nausea, and flu-like symptoms.
kelley's textbook of rheumatology.
be sure to wear sunscreen (spf 15 or higher) while taking this drug.
other risks associated with these drugs include: corticosteroids work rapidly to control inflammation and pain.
it is used for people with ra who have not responded to other drugs.
leflunomide (arava) blocks autoimmune antibodies and reduces inflammation.
currently approved biologic response modifiers include: some of these drugs are used as first-line treatments for ra.
stem cell transplantation.
macrophage activation syndrome (mas) is a life-threatening  complication of juvenile rheumatoid arthritis and requires immediate treatment  with high-dose steroids and cyclosporin a. parents should be aware of symptoms,  which include persistent fever, weakness, drowsiness, and lethargy.
the joints are less inflamed.
an erythrocyte sedimentation  rate (esr or sed rate) measures how fast red blood cells (erythrocytes) fall to  the bottom of a fine glass tube that is filled with the patient's blood.
the process may develop in the following way: the disease process leading to rheumatoid arthritis begins in the synovium, the membrane that surrounds a joint and creates a protective sac.
the goals of drug treatment for rheumatoid arthritis include: the drug categories used for ra include: the question of how early and how aggressively to treat ra has been the subject of great debate.
the combination appears to work better than single drug therapy.
women are more likely to develop ra than men.
it can take 2 - 3 months before symptoms begin to improve and up to a year for full benefit.
people with intestinal or urinary obstructions or who have allergies to sulfa drugs or salicylates should not take sulfasalazine.
back to top rheumatoid arthritis is not fatal, but complications of the disease may shorten survival by a few years in some individuals.
cartilage is composed primarily of collagen, the structural protein  in the body, which forms a mesh to give support and flexibility to joints.
blood tests various blood tests may be used to help diagnose ra, determine its  severity, and detect complications of the disease.
indeed, many joints may be involved, including those in the cervical  spine, shoulders, elbows, tips, temporomandibular joint (jaw), and even joints  between very small bones in the inner ear.
osteoarthritis usually occurs in older people.
reports of adverse effects are comparable to those with methotrexate.
x-rays generally have not been helpful to detect the presence of early rheumatoid arthritis because they cannot show images of soft tissue.
orthotic devices are specialized braces and splints that support and help align joints.
fluid may accumulate, particularly in the ankles.
even this drug loses effectiveness, however, when used alone.
the higher the sed rate the greater the inflammation.
although rheumatoid arthritis can occur at any age from childhood to old age, onset usually begins between the ages of 30 - 50.
long-term, regular use of nsaids (with the exception of aspirin) can increase the risk for heart attack, especially for people who have a heart condition.
it should not be used by women who are pregnant or planning on becoming pregnant.
according to one survey, 70% of  patients with rheumatoid arthritis feel the disease prevents them from living a  fully productive life.
they are also three times more likely than healthy women to develop  hypertension during the last trimester of pregnancy.
further evaluation is  necessary.
for reasons that are still not completely understood, both the t cells and  the b cells become overactive in patients with ra.
many patients have weakness of the muscles.
there have been a number of reported cases of serious and even lethal side effects from herbal products.
in: harris ed, budd rc, genovese mc, firestein gs, sargent js, sledge cb, eds.
however, some research suggests that folic acid may interfere with methotrexate's effectiveness.
small, short-term studies have shown that this therapy may slow or even halt the progression of the disease in a third to a half of patients.
if you are thinking of trying fish oil supplements, talk to your doctor first.
rheumatoid arthritis in: goldman l, ausiello d, eds.
long-term use of oral steroid medications suppresses secretion of natural steroid hormones by the adrenal glands.
flu-like symptoms symptoms such as fatigue, weight loss, and fever may accompany early  rheumatoid arthritis.
it works best when the disease is confined to the joints.
updated consensus statement on biological agents for the treatment of rheumatic diseases, 2007.ann rheum dis.
patients with ra have increased risk for death  from coronary artery disease.
recent research suggests that prednisone can increase the risk of developing non-melanoma skin cancer.
although it  can be very serious, very few people die from this condition.
back to top symptoms the hallmark symptom of rheumatoid arthritis is morning stiffness that  lasts for at least an hour.
dmards do not have any common properties other than their ability to slow down the progression of rheumatoid arthritis.
the prosthesis is usually made of a chromium alloy and plastic and may be attached to the adjoining bones using a cement, polymethyl methacrylate, or the prosthesis may be composed of a porous material that allows bone to grow into and eventually adhere to the device.
baker cysts often develop in people who do not have ra.
joint replacement surgery.
in the case of knee operations, patients can resume mild activity in a couple of days, but full recovery can take up to 3 months.
it can take a week before symptoms improve and up to 3 months for full benefit.
these genetic factors do not cause ra, but they may make the disease more severe once it has developed.
it can take 3 - 6 months before injections have an effect on ra symptoms.
stress management alone cannot reduce pain, but it may be very helpful in helping people deal with their condition.
the inflammatory process is a  byproduct of the activity of the body's immune system, which fights infection  and heals wounds and injuries: when an injury or an infection occurs, white blood cells are mobilized to  rid the body of any foreign proteins, such as a virus.
some patients develop infection from the catheter used to remove blood.
among patients with ra, some will go into remission and remain in remission for the length of their lives even in the absence of treatment, while others will go on to develop active, sometimes severe ra.
the risk for osteoporosis also appears to be higher  than average in men with ra who are over 60 years old.
many other conditions  resemble it and its symptoms can develop insidiously.
everyone taking leflunomide should be monitored regularly, including blood tests for liver function, and anyone with liver problems should not take this drug.
some patients develop severe skin complications  that include rash, ulcers, blisters (which may bleed in some cases), lumps  under the skin, and other problems.
it would be impossible to discuss  in this report the dozens of all conditions with symptoms of joint aches and  pains.
it is not definite that gold causes birth defects, but doctors generally recommend women use birth control while receiving this drug.
to date, no evidence supports their efficacy.
collagen is gradually destroyed, narrowing the joint space and eventually  damaging bone.
fish oil supplements are another option, but they may interact with certain medications.
it is also not certain which combination of drugs works best.
if the disease develops into a form called progressive rheumatoid  arthritis, destruction to the cartilage accelerates.
further evaluation is necessary.
this is the first acr drug guidelines since 2002.
however, biologic response modifiers are not used in combination with each other, as they can lead to serious infections.
taking nsaids with food can reduce stomach discomfort, although it may slow down the pain-relieving effect.
azathioprine (imuran) suppresses immune system activity.
it can also show up in blood tests of people with other diseases.
evidence of damage on x-rays  along with elevated rheumatoid factor is a significant predictor for  progressive joint destruction.
intensive early dosing of methotrexate may help slow progression of rheumatoid arthritis.
this lead to the removal of rofecoxib (vioxx) and valdecoxib (bextra) from the united states market.
a device called the prosorba column is used to remove inflammatory antibodies from the patient's blood.
there are dozens of nsaids: studies suggest that the best times for taking an nsaid may be after the evening meal and then again on awakening.
there is little scientific evidence to support these approaches but some patients report anecdotally that they are helpful.
the acr's current recommendations include: drug warnings rheumatoid arthritis (ra) is a chronic disease in which various joints in the body are inflamed, leading to swelling, pain, stiffness, and the possible loss of function.
salmon je, roman mj.
if bone and ligament destruction and any deformities have occurred, however, the effects are permanent.
etiology and pathogenesis of rheumatoid arthritis.
because biologic response modifiers affect the immune system, patients who take these drugs have an increased risk for infections.
the  test is used, then, not for diagnosis, but to help determine how active the  condition is.
disorders with similar symptoms symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis can be mimicked by things as benign as a  bad mattress or as serious as cancer.
in recent clinical trials, some patients have achieved remission using methotrexate in combination with infliximab, adalimumab, or rituximab.
in addition to cushioning joints, this fluid supplies nutrients and oxygen  tocartilage, a slippery tissue that coats the ends of bones.
a systematic review of the effectiveness of adalimumab, etanercept and infliximab for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis in adults and an economic evaluation of their cost-effectiveness.
other possible side effects of nsaids may include: cox-2 inhibitors (coxibs).
about 10 - 15% of patients experience nausea and vomiting, often accompanied by stomach pain and diarrhea.
two-thirds of people with ra rank pain as their primary reason for seeking professional help.
nearly all patients experience an immediate flare-up of joint pain that lasts a few days.
physical injuries, infections, and poor circulation are among the many problems that can cause aches and pains.
swelling of the gums is also common.
2007 may;129(1-2):210-23.
nodules can occur throughout the course of the disease.
current practice has moved towards treating the disease aggressively while it is in its early stages to help prevent it from reaching a more severe and chronic state.
two important components of the immune system that play a role in the inflammation associated with rheumatoid arthritis areb cells and t cells, both of which belong to a family of immune cells called lymphocytes.
chronic inflammation and  immune dysfunction are central to both diseases.
specific findings or presentation more likely to suggest the diagnosis of  rheumatoid arthritis include morning stiffness, involvement of three joints at  the same time, involvement of both sides of the body, subcutaneous nodules,  positive rheumatoid factor, changes in x-rays.
in combination with the test for rheumatoid factor, the ccp antibody test is the best predictor of which patients will go on to develop severe ra.
however, because obesity also increases crp  levels, the doctor should consider a patient's body mass index when evaluating  crp levels during ra diagnosis.
the goal of exercise is to: in general, doctors recommend the following approaches: a common -sense approach to exercise is the best guide: many patients with ra try dietary approaches, such as fasting, vegan diets, or eliminating specific foods, that seem to worsen ra symptoms.
2007 nov;66 suppl 3:iii2-22.
biologic dmards were  not included in previous treatment guidelines.
high levels of c-reactive protein (crp) are also indicators of active inflammation.
this drug class was initially thought to provide benefits equal to nsaids but cause less gastrointestinal distress.
lymphoma and other cancers.
etanercept's prescribing label now includes a stronger warning about the  risks of infections, including tuberculosis.
in recent years, a number of studies have suggested that the omega-3 fatty acids contained in fish oil may have anti-inflammatory properties useful for ra joint pain relief.
the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis involves medications and lifestyle changes.
common problems include nausea, diarrhea, hair loss, and rash.
in about 20% of people with ra, inflammation of small blood vessels can cause nodules, or lumps, under the skin.
less common side effects include skin rash or bleaching or thinning of hair.
studies have found less joint damage in patients with early, aggressive treatment, particularly with the use of dmards and tnf modifiers in combination with methotrexate.
a number of hla genetic forms called hla-drb1 and hla-dr4 alleles are referred to as the ra-shared epitope because of their association with rheumatoid arthritis.
leflunomide should not be taken by patients with active bacterial infections, active herpes-zoster viral infection, active or latent tuberculosis, or acute or chronic hepatitis b or c. hydroxychloroquine.
in ra, antibodies that collect in the synovium of  the joint are known asrheumatoid factor.
potentially serious side effects include infections and liver injury.
the use of a technique known as dual energy x-ray absorptiometry, however, may be useful in detecting early bone loss in rheumatoid arthritis (2 - 27 months after onset).
studies are suggesting, however, that with the use of lasers for the procedure, eventually synovectomy may prove to be an alternative to dmard treatments in reducing symptoms and achieving long-term remission.
these antibodies circulate widely in the bloodstream, recognizing the foreign particles and triggering inflammation in order to rid the body of the invasion.
while kidney function usually improves once the drug is stopped, mild-to-moderate high blood pressure may continue.
back to  top diagnosis rheumatoid arthritis can be difficult to diagnose.
always check with your doctor before using any herbal remedies or dietary supplements.
about 20% of patients withdraw from methotrexate because of its side effects.
the pain often occurs symmetrically but may be more severe on one side of the body, depending on which hand the person uses more often.
this drug used to be associated with eye and vision problems, but with current lower doses this side effect is rare.
sulfasalazine increases sensitivity to sunlight.
some researchers think they  may stimulate the immune system to prolong ra once the disease has been  triggered by some other initial infection.
qus, which is used for osteoporosis, can detect bone loss in fingers, which may prove to be a good indicator of early ra.
the  higher the sed rate the greater the inflammation.
a number of hla genetic forms called hla-drb1 and hla-dr4 alleles are  referred to as the ra-shared epitope because of their association with  rheumatoid arthritis.
the exact causes of rheumatoid arthritis are unknown.
investigators are reporting that transplantation of donated hemopoietic stem cells, which mature into various blood cells, has induced remission in a few children with severe juvenile rheumatoid arthritis.
treatments for ra are increasingly effective in slowing this debilitating disease, and some may even prevent initial destruction by aggressively reducing inflammation.
although it can be very serious, very few people die from this condition.
these drugs target specific components of the immune system that contribute to the joint inflammation and damage that are part of the rheumatoid arthritis disease process.
it is usually performed on the knee, but it also may be done on the hip: in many cases, the procedure can be done using local anesthetic, and the patient can go home within a day.
gold injections cause mouth sores in about a third of patients.
symptoms such as fatigue, weight loss, and fever may accompany early rheumatoid arthritis.
many drugs are used for managing the pain and slowing the progression of rheumatoid arthritis, but none completely cure the disease.
osteoporosis is a common and particularly severe long-term side effect of prolonged steroid use.
fluid and immune system  cells accumulate in the synovium to produce apannus, a growth composed  of thickened synovial tissue.
although type 2 rheumatoid  arthritis is progressive and there is no cure, over time the disease becomes  less aggressive, and symptoms may even improve.
however, the sed rate can be  high in many conditions ranging from infection to inflammation to tumors.
osteoarthritis requires some special mention because  it is the most common form of arthritis.
genetic factors genetic factors may play some role in ra either in terms of increasing  susceptibility to developing the condition or by worsening the disease process  but are clearly not the only important factors.
various ointments, including ben gay and capsaicin (a cream that use the active ingredient in chilli peppers), may help soothe painful joints.
it is likely that no single drug will ever cure rheumatoid arthritis because of the many factors that affect the disease at various times.
they are about the size of a pea or  slightly larger, and are often located near the elbow, although they can show  up anywhere.
according to the arthritis foundation, rheumatoid arthritis (ra) affects  about 1.3 million americans.
current dmard guidelines from the american college of rheumatology recommend: [for more specific information on these drugs, see medications section of this report.]back to top disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (dmards) are the standard treatments for ra.
the procedure involves a small incision and insertion of small implants.
biologic dmards were not included in previous treatment guidelines.
(taking the medication twice daily, instead of once daily, or taking it after eating may help avoid this problem.)
sep 15;59(9):1249-56.back to top treating major depression meditation and stress cravings and weight loss your rights as a patient flu overview sleep and pain flu prevention the role of a caregiver how to quit for good cold and flu smarts for kids diet & energy choosing bone density tests bmi calculator calcium calculator diabetes risk quiz heart attack risk calculator calories burned calculator colon cancer risk quiz
progression of pain is almost always gradual.
for many women with ra,  the disease goes into remission during pregnancy but after birth the condition  recurs and symptoms can increase in severity.
a number of specially designed appliances and devices are available to ease daily activities.
2007 mar 20;146(6):406-15.
for patients with early ra (less than 3 months), anti-tumor necrosis  factor (anti-tnf) biologic drugs (along with methotrexate) should be reserved  only for patients with high disease activity who have never received dmards.
possible ra markers in synovial fluid
anti-ccp antibody test.
more studies are needed to determine risks and benefits for ra patients.
this is an inflammation of the blood  vessels in the eye that can result in corneal damage.
patients with ra are susceptible to chronic lung  diseases, including interstitial fibrosis, pulmonary hypertension, and other  problems.
rheumatoid arthritis  is most likely triggered by a combination of factors, including an abnormal  autoimmune response, genetic susceptibility, and some environmental or biologic  trigger, such as a viral infection or hormonal changes.