it is not known whether ibuprofen is harmful to an unborn baby.
healthwise disclaims any warranty or liability for your use of this information.
this includes vitamins, minerals, herbal products, and drugs prescribed by other doctors.
the absence of a warning for a given drug or drug combination in no way should be construed to indicate that the drug or drug combination is safe, effective or appropriate for any given patient.
do not take extra medicine to make up the missed dose.
what happens if i overdose?
an overdose of ibuprofen can cause damage to your stomach or intestines.
shake the oral suspension (liquid) well just before you measure a dose.
ibuprofen can make  aspirin less effective in protecting your heart and blood vessels.
do not use this medication without telling your doctor if you are  breast-feeding a baby.
ask a doctor or pharmacist if it is safe for you to take this medication if you have: fda pregnancy category c.
use only the smallest amount of ibuprofen needed to get relief from your pain, swelling, or fever.
ibuprofen may also be used for other purposes not listed in this medication guide.
if you are taking the medication regularly, take the missed dose as soon as you remember.
organizational structure - magnet force 3: management style - magnet force 4: personnel policies and programs - magnet force 5: professional models of care - magnet force 6: quality of care - magnet force 7: quality improvement - magnet force 8: consultation and resources - magnet force 9: autonomy - magnet force 10: community and the healthcare organization - magnet force 11: nurses as teachers - magnet force 12: image of nursing - magnet force 13: interdisciplinary relationships - magnet force 14: professional development - nursing photo gallery - testimonials from our nurses - awards and recognition - board-certified nurses - careers in nursing - education and resources - 2011 summer nursing camp - volunteering - about volunteering at swedish covenant hospital - how to become a volunteer - volunteer requirements - volunteer opportunities - volunteer benefits - volunteer guidelines and responsibilities - volunteer testimonials - volunteer news secondary menu - about us - your visit to sch - for physicians - media center - health library - my health space you are here:
home » health library health library ibuprofen ibuprofen pronunciation: eye bue proe fen brand: advil, advil childrens, advil junior strength, advil liquigel, advil migraine, advil pediatric, childrens ibuprofen berry, genpril, ibu, midol ib, midol maximum strength cramp formula, motrin, motrin childrens, motrin ib, motrin infant drops, motrin junior strength, motrin migraine pain, nuprin ibuprofen 100 mg per 5 ml-per slide 1 of 9 ibuprofen 400 mg-par oblong, white, imprinted with ibu 400 slide 2 of 9 ibuprofen 400 mg-qua round, white, imprinted with 400,
do not give this medicine to a child without the advice of a doctor.
do not start using a new medication without telling your doctor.
the maximum amount of ibuprofen for adults is 800 milligrams per dose or 3200 mg per day (4 maximum doses).
where can i get more information?
multum's drug information is an informational resource designed to assist licensed healthcare practitioners in caring for their patients and/or to serve consumers viewing this service as a supplement to, and not a substitute for, the expertise, skill, knowledge and judgment of healthcare practitioners.
tell your doctor about all the prescription and over-the-counter medications you use.
do not take more of this medication than is  recommended.
a bleeding or blood clotting disorder; or if you smoke.
it is not known whether  ibuprofen is harmful to an unborn baby.
your pharmacist can provide more information about ibuprofen.
if you are taking the medication regularly, take the missed dose as  soon as you remember.
multum's drug information does not endorse drugs, diagnose patients or recommend therapy.
since ibuprofen is sometimes taken as needed, you may not be on a dosing schedule.
do not take extra  medicine to make up the missed dose.
choosing your child's physician - why are "well-child" exams important?
do not miss any scheduled visits to your doctor.
this is not a complete list of side effects and others may occur.
shake the  oral suspension (liquid) well just before you measure a dose.
the maximum amount of ibuprofen for adults is 800 milligrams per  dose or 3200 mg per day (4 maximum doses).
these conditions can be fatal and gastrointestinal effects can occur without warning at any time while you are taking an nsaid.
if you do not have a dose-measuring device, ask your pharmacist for one.
tell your doctor if you are taking an antidepressant such as citalopram (celexa), duloxetine (cymbalta), escitalopram (lexapro), fluoxetine (prozac, sarafem, symbyax), fluvoxamine (luvox), paroxetine (paxil), sertraline (zoloft), or venlafaxine (effexor).
taking any of these drugs with ibuprofen may cause you to bruise or bleed easily.
avoid taking ibuprofen if you are taking aspirin to prevent stroke or heart attack.
if you do not have a  dose-measuring device, ask your pharmacist for one.
you may report side effects to fda at 1-800-fda-1088.
do not use this medication without telling your doctor if you are breast-feeding a baby.
less serious side effects may include: - upset stomach, mild heartburn, diarrhea, constipation; - bloating, gas; - dizziness, headache, nervousness; - skin itching or rash; - blurred vision; or - ringing in your ears.
it is  not known whether ibuprofen passes into breast milk or if it could harm a  nursing baby.
- swedish covenant hospital -
every effort has been made to ensure that the information provided by cerner multum, inc. ('multum') is accurate, up-to-date, and complete, but no guarantee is made to that effect.
this medicine can increase your risk of life-threatening heart or circulation problems, including heart attack or stroke.
stop taking ibuprofen and seek medical attention or call your doctor at once if you have any of these serious side effects: - chest pain, weakness, shortness of breath, slurred speech, problems with vision or balance; - black, bloody, or tarry stools, coughing up blood or vomit that looks like coffee grounds; - swelling or rapid weight gain; - urinating less than usual or not at all; - nausea, stomach pain, low fever, loss of appetite, dark urine, clay-colored stools, jaundice (yellowing of the skin or eyes); - fever, sore throat, and headache with a severe blistering, peeling, and red skin rash; - bruising, severe tingling, numbness, pain, muscle weakness; or - severe headache, neck stiffness, chills, increased sensitivity to light, and/or seizure (convulsions).
multum does not assume any responsibility for any aspect of healthcare administered with the aid of information multum provides.
if you take ibuprofen for a long period of time, your doctor may want to check you on a regular basis to make sure this medication is not causing harmful effects.
do not take ibuprofen during pregnancy unless your doctor has told you to.
well community - mobile version - swedish covenant medical group - galter lifecenter skip to main content main menu - find a doc - medical services - cancer services - cancer services - screening and diagnostics - mammogram availability - breast health program - treatment options - support and rehabilitation services - specialties - breast cancer - colon cancer - liver cancer - prostate cancer - technology - imrt delivers radiation with pinpoint precision - resources and faqs - guidelines for yearly cancer screenings - cancer services publications - patient and family support services - screening events and community-based programs - myths and misunderstandings on breast cancer - philosophy of care - accreditations and awards - swedish covenant hospital nurse recognized as 2008 yoplait champion - cardiology and heart services - cardiac services - cardiac testing - cardiac treatment - cardiac rehabilitation - pulmonary rehabilitation - cardiac facilities - philosophy of care - chicago back institute - chicago back institute overview - back pain treatments - minimally invasive herniated disk procedures - si joint stabilization - team of clinicians - philosophy of care - chicago back institute location and contact - chicago back institute in our community - spine and back
what other drugs will affect ibuprofen?
this includes black, bloody, or tarry stools, or coughing up blood or vomit that looks like coffee grounds.
when pediatric hospitalization is necessary - common questions on childhood asthma - discover the fact and fiction behind many popular home remedies - all kids, familycare and moms and babies - health care and services at home - services - home health care - housecalls: mobile medical program - team of clinicians - meet the home health care team - meet the housecalls medical director and nurse practitioners - resources and faqs - home health care faqs - housecalls frequently asked questions - education and services for care givers - education and services for patients - location and contact - home health care contact information and service area - housecalls contact information and service area - philosophy of care - laboratory and blood work - mental health services - mental health services - psychological services - psychiatric services - team of clinicians - midwifery - services - team of clinicians - resources and faq's - location and contact - philosophy of care - ophthalmology (eye health) - orthopedic program - orthopedic program overview - orthopedic services and treatments - joint replacement program - resources and faqs - articles by dr. levi: cartilage injuries - miniminally invasive hip surgery - unique orthopedic offerings - physical therapy and rehabilitation - physicians - location and contact - pain management - pain management services - conditions treated with pain management - pain management procedures - lidocaine infusions - team of clinicians - resources and faqs - scheduling your appointment - preparing for your appointment - performance outcomes - pediatrics - well-child exams - team of clinicians - resources and faqs - preparing for your child’s appointment - common health advice for parents - prenatal visit faqs - new born guide - other health resources - baby 411 - location and contact - philosophy of care - physical therapy - post-hospital services - resources and faqs - nursing home evaluation checklists - living in a nursing home: myths and realities - skilled nursing facility and other resources - pulmonary rehabilitation - radiology services - radiology services - interventional radiology - uterine fibroid embolization - vertebroplasty: advanced treatment for osteoporosis - bone density screening - cardiac scoring - technology - mri technology - ct technology - rehabilitation services - physical therapy - specialty programs - occupational therapy - speech-language pathology - work conditioning - resources and faq’s - balance center - primary stroke center certification - sleep and neurodiagnostic center - services - overnight sleep studies - treatment options - resources and faqs - surgical services - surgical procedures - robotic surgery - da vinci si robotic surgery system - benefits of the da vinci si robotic surgery system - our expert surgeons - how to schedule a robotic surgery appointment - resources and faq’s
however, taking ibuprofen during the last 3 months of pregnancy may result in birth defects.
overdose symptoms may include nausea, vomiting, stomach pain, drowsiness, black or bloody stools, coughing up blood, shallow breathing, fainting, or coma.
seek emergency medical help if you have symptoms of heart or circulation problems, such as chest pain, weakness, shortness of breath, slurred speech, or problems with vision or balance.
ibuprofen works by reducing hormones that cause inflammation and pain in the body.
do not use any  other over-the-counter cold, allergy, or pain medication without first asking  your doctor or pharmacist.
this list is not complete and there may be other drugs that can interact with ibuprofen.
nsaids can increase your risk of life-threatening heart or circulation problems, including heart attack or stroke.
this risk will increase the longer you use ibuprofen.
this medicine can also increase your risk of serious effects on the stomach or intestines, including bleeding or perforation (forming of a hole).
call your doctor for medical advice about side effects.
- a history of heart attack, stroke, or blood clot; - heart disease, congestive heart failure, high blood pressure; - a history of stomach ulcers or bleeding; - asthma; - polyps in your nose; - liver or kidney disease; - systemic lupus erythematosus (sle); - a bleeding or blood clotting disorder; or - if you smoke.
overdose symptoms may include  nausea, vomiting, stomach pain, drowsiness, black or bloody stools, coughing up  blood, shallow breathing, fainting, or coma.
many medicines available over the counter contain  aspirin or other medicines similar to ibuprofen (such as ketoprofen or  naproxen).
however, taking ibuprofen during the  last 3 months of pregnancy may result in birth defects.
if you take ibuprofen for a long period of time, your doctor may want to  check you on a regular basis to make sure this medication is not causing  harmful effects.
an overdose of ibuprofen can cause damage to your stomach or  intestines.
if you must use both medications, take the ibuprofen at least 8 hours before or 30 minutes after you take the aspirin (non-enteric coated form).
do not take  ibuprofen during pregnancy unless your doctor has told you to.
get emergency  medical help if you have any of thesesigns of an allergic reaction: hives; difficulty breathing; swelling of your face, lips, tongue, or throat.
- a growing problem: obesity in kids -
ibuprofen is used to reduce fever and treat pain or inflammation caused by many conditions such as headache, toothache, back pain, arthritis, menstrual cramps, or minor injury.
get emergency medical help if you have any of thesesigns of an allergic reaction: hives; difficulty breathing; swelling of your face, lips, tongue, or throat.
before taking ibuprofen, tell your doctor if you are taking any of the following drugs: - aspirin or other nsaids such as diclofenac (voltaren), etodolac (lodine), indomethacin (indocin), meloxicam (mobic), naproxen (aleve, naprosyn), piroxicam (feldene), and others; - an ace inhibitor such as benazepril (lotensin), fosinopril (monopril), enalapril (vasotec), lisinopril (prinivil, zestril), quinapril (accupril), ramipril (altace), and others; - lithium (eskalith, lithobid); - diuretics (water pills) such as furosemide (lasix); - methotrexate (rheumatrex, trexall); - steroids (prednisone and others); or - a blood thinner such as warfarin (coumadin).
multum information has been compiled for use by healthcare practitioners and consumers in the united states and therefore multum does not warrant that uses outside of the united states are appropriate, unless specifically indicated otherwise.
stop taking ibuprofen and seek medical attention or call your doctor  at once if you have any of these serious side effects: chest pain, weakness, shortness of breath, slurred speech, problems with  vision or balance; black, bloody, or tarry stools, coughing up blood or vomit that looks like  coffee grounds; swelling or rapid weight gain; urinating less than usual or not at all; nausea, stomach pain, low fever, loss of appetite, dark urine,  clay-colored stools, jaundice (yellowing of the skin or eyes); fever, sore throat, and headache with a severe blistering, peeling, and  red skin rash; bruising, severe tingling, numbness, pain, muscle weakness; or severe headache, neck stiffness, chills, increased sensitivity to light,  and/or seizure (convulsions).
definitions - wound care frequently asked questions - location and contact - events & classes - careers - employment opportunities - physician opportunities - benefits - health - time - knowledge - spirit - money - lifeworks program - residency programs - residency opportunities - family medicine residency program - osteopathic internal medicine residency program - traditional rotating internship - salary and benefits - requirements and contracts - residency photo gallery - medical students - testimonials from our residents - meet our current residents - nursing - journey to magnet excellence - magnet force 1: quality of nursing leadership - magnet force 2:
your use of this information means that you agree to theterms of use.
ibuprofen can make aspirin less effective in protecting your heart and blood vessels.
- our patient stories - vascular services - vascular services - vascular disease risk factors - treating vascular problems - vascular screenings - vital screening package - online assessment - weight management - weight management services - weight management comprehensive evaluation - weight management surgical options - weight management non-surgical options - team of clinicians - weight management resources and faqs - location and contact - our patient stories - obesity win means fewer medications, more happiness for mom - women's health - women's health services - ob/gyn practice - family birthing center - breast health - incontinence and pelvic pain - treatments - surgical options - menopause - osteoporosis - team of clinicians - resources and faq’s - embracing menopause: preparing for a healthy transition - tips for a great mammogram - wound care center - wound care services - wound care procedures and treatments - prevention and home treatment techniques - wound care center team of clinicians - wound care center resources and faqs - preparing for your visit - wound care
call your doctor at once if you have symptoms of bleeding in your stomach or intestines.
since ibuprofen is sometimes taken as needed, you may not be on a dosing  schedule.
do not allow the liquid medicine to freeze.
do not drink alcohol while taking ibuprofen.
many medicines available over the counter contain aspirin or other medicines similar to ibuprofen (such as ketoprofen or naproxen).
- © 2011 swedish covenant hospital - contact us - site map - copyright and legal - vendor compliance - privacy statement - spanish (pdf) - korean (pdf) - russian (pdf) 5145 n california avenue, chicago, illinois 60625 773.878.8200
store  ibuprofen at room temperature away from moisture and heat.
do not use this medication if you are allergic to ibuprofen, aspirin or other nsaids.
if you must  use both medications, take the ibuprofen at least 8 hours before or 30 minutes  after you take the aspirin (non-enteric coated form).
the information contained herein is not intended to cover all possible uses, directions, precautions, warnings, drug interactions, allergic reactions, or adverse effects.
do not give this medicine to a child without  the advice of a doctor.
what are the possible side effects of ibuprofen?
take ibuprofen with food or milk to lessen stomach upset.
do not use this medicine just before or after having heart bypass surgery (also called coronary artery bypass graft, or cabg).
drug information contained herein may be time sensitive.
if you take certain products together you may accidentally take too  much of this type of medication.
do not take more of this medication than is recommended.
nsaids can also increase your risk of serious effects on the stomach or intestines, including bleeding or perforation (forming of a hole).
take this medication exactly as directed on the label, or as it has been  prescribed by your doctor.
avoid taking ibuprofen if  you are taking aspirin to prevent stroke or heart attack.
to be sure you  get the correct dose, measure the liquid with a marked measuring spoon or  medicine cup, not with a regular table spoon.
what should i discuss with my healthcare provider before taking ibuprofen?
read the label of any other medicine you are using to see if it contains aspirin, ibuprofen, ketoprofen, or naproxen.
store ibuprofen at room temperature away from moisture and heat.
if you take certain products together you may accidentally take too much of this type of medication.
take this medication exactly as directed on the label, or as it has been prescribed by your doctor.
the ibuprofen chewable tablet must be chewed before you swallow it.
how this information was developed to help you make better health decisions.
do not use the medication in larger amounts, or use it for longer than recommended.
to be sure you get the correct dose, measure the liquid with a marked measuring spoon or medicine cup, not with a regular table spoon.
if you have questions about the drugs you are taking, check with your doctor, nurse or pharmacist.
seek emergency medical attention if you think you have used too much of this medicine.
your use of the content provided in this service indicates that you have read, understood and agree to the end-user license agreement, which can be accessed byclicking on this link.
what should i avoid while taking ibuprofen?
ibuprofen is in a group of drugs called nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (nsaids).
if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and wait until your next regularly scheduled dose.
alcohol can increase the risk  of stomach bleeding caused by ibuprofen.
fda pregnancy category c.
do not use the medication in larger amounts, or use  it for longer than recommended.
do not allow the  liquid medicine to freeze.
ip 131 slide 3 of 9 ibuprofen 400 mg-sch oblong, white, imprinted with schein 0765/400 slide 4 of 9 ibuprofen 600 mg-int oval, white, imprinted with ip 132, 600 slide 5 of 9 ibuprofen 600 mg-par oblong, white, imprinted with ibu 600 slide 6 of 9 ibuprofen 600 mg-sch oblong, white, imprinted with schein 0766/600 slide 7 of 9 ibuprofen 800 mg-par oblong, white, imprinted with ibu 800 slide 8 of 9 ibuprofen 800 mg-qua oblong, white, imprinted with 800, ip 137 slide 9 of 9 what is the most important information i should know about ibuprofen?
resources - childbirth - childbirth services - family birthing center - midwifery services - technology - resources and faq’s - childbirth classes - preregistration information - dermatology - emergency services - services - resources and faqs - family health - family health services - family practice center - pediatric services - affordable pre-natal and pediatric services - emergency situations - diabetes community center - medical nutrition counseling - adolescent programs - resources and faqs
revision date: 12/01/2009.
how should i take ibuprofen?
use only the smallest amount of  ibuprofen needed to get relief from your pain, swelling, or fever.
what happens if i miss a dose?
this information does not replace the advice of a doctor.
seek emergency medical attention if you  think you have used too much of this medicine.
if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed  dose and wait until your next regularly scheduled dose.
do not use any other over-the-counter cold, allergy, or pain medication without first asking your doctor or pharmacist.
remember, keep this and all other medicines out of the reach of children, never share your medicines with others, and use this medication only for the indication prescribed.
read the label of any other medicine you are  using to see if it contains aspirin, ibuprofen, ketoprofen, or naproxen.
less serious side effects may include: upset stomach, mild heartburn, diarrhea, constipation; bloating, gas;
copyright 1996-2010 cerner multum, inc.
this risk will increase the longer you take ibuprofen.
it is not known whether ibuprofen passes into breast milk or if it could harm a nursing baby.
alcohol can increase the risk of stomach bleeding caused by ibuprofen.