aspirin is aspirin, and it works and it's safe -- if you're careful --
then read on... ..aspirin, the drug
but what would you really know about the most widely-used pain reliever of all time?
aspirin can trigger a serious, often fatal sickness called reye's syndrome in young people recovering from chicken pox or the flu.
no matter what some brand-name aspirin makers say in their tv ads, there's  no real difference between brand-name and no-name aspirin.
those with conditions such as hemophilia, asthma, or allergies should consult their doctors before using any amount of the drug.
because aspirin is a drug.
please call or write for a complete list of  available titles, or check us out online at www.doitnow.org.
it's swallowed to prevent heart attacks and taken to relieve headaches, fever, rheumatism, arthritis, inflammation, hangovers, and other disorders, real and imagined.
as little as 10 grams --  about 30 regular-strength tablets -- can be fatal in adults.
the most popular is acetaminophen, sold under the brand-names tylenol and datril (among others).
..'four out of five doctors recommend...'
you'd have seen migraines pampered and vanquished, and arthritis pain  formulized out of existence.
some experts say a good way to take aspirin is to crush it and mix it with  orange juice or honey and lemon to reduce stomach irritation and permit faster  absorption.
other problems even when taken as directed, aspirin still stirs up problems for some  people.
its ability to relieve pain  is unequaled even by many highly-touted prescription drugs.
but unlike the "magic" of placebos, the magic of aspirin resides  in the aspirin molecule itself.
aspirin interferes with many types of medication, including  drugs taken for gout, diabetes, and kidney disease.
and even then, you should be aware of two key  points: more is not better.
acetaminophen reduces fever and pain, but doesn't ease inflammation.
you'd have seen it rush to where it hurts five times faster while it was twice as gentle to your stomach, unclanging bell-ringer headaches as it neutralized neuritis, neuralgia, and a long list of muscular aches and pains.
on the other hand, acetaminophen causes less stomach upset.
ibuprofen, sold under the brand-names advil and nuprin, was introduced as a nonprescription pain reliever in 1984.
other  points to keep in mind: don't take aspirin on an empty stomach, and be  sure to wash it down with a glass of water.
because in that short time, you would have seen aspirin buffered and  time-released, extra-strengthed and effervesced, in a dozen different forms in  a dozen different commercials.
just consider these, for starters: for some users, aspirin can cause ringing in the ears, dizziness, vomiting, and hearing loss.
that's why aspirin overdoses should always be regarded as life-threatening  emergencies requiring fast medical attention.
publisher: do it now foundation publication date: october 2002 catalog number: 138 ..'four out of five doctors recommend...'
oh, we know it works -- usually, when taken as directed -- but that's about  it.
because in that short time, you would have seen aspirin buffered and time-released, extra-strengthed and effervesced, in a dozen different forms in a dozen different commercials.
and although it's safe and cheap and effective, it can be dangerous -- even deadly -- when used incorrectly or in larger-than-recommended doses.
its ability to relieve pain is unequaled even by many highly-touted prescription drugs.
and despite its use as a hangover cure,  aspirin is even more irritating to the stomach when used with alcohol.
as with any other drug, users should also be careful about interactions  with other drugs.
some reports have even linked ibuprofen to a reversible, temporary form of kidney failure in as many as a quarter of patients studied.
because aspirin can disrupt normal blood clotting and cause bleeding, it should be avoided at least one week prior to surgery and during pregnancy.
..consumer, be wise pointing out its possible risks isn't meant to turn people away from moderate aspirin use.
at high levels, prostaglandins cause pain -- and aspirin just eats up pain.
in addition, regular aspirin use may increase risks of bleeding stroke,  which is more often fatal than ischemic stroke.
in 1996, aspirin ranked eighth among all drugs as a cause of overdose and poisoning.
children and teenagers are also better off with substitutes.
and although it's safe and cheap and effective,  it can be dangerous -- even deadly -- when used incorrectly or in  larger-than-recommended doses.
since its commercial introduction in 1899 by the bayer company, worldwide popularity of acetylsalicylic acid -- better known as aspirin -- has grown steadily.
aspirin really is a wonder drug -- as effective at stopping pain as many  prescription analgesics, and its beneficial effects on health only make it  that much more of a boon than it has been all along.
in fact, evidence of the drug's dangers in pregnancy -- including prolonged  labor, heavier bleeding, and abnormal clotting in mother and child -- has  prompted federal officials to recommend warning labels for all aspirin products.
that's why we've put this pamphlet together.
the alternative can be every bit as deadly as a heart attack.
the most common effect of overuse is stomach upset -- from pain and nausea to bleeding ulcers and chronic indigestion.
that's why aspirin overdoses should always be regarded as life-threatening emergencies requiring fast medical attention.
it has to be to be aspirin.
and so has the variety of aspirin available.
but no matter what form you buy or where you find it, all aspirin works in  the same way: by blocking production of hormone-like chemicals (called  prostaglandins) involved in everything from blood circulation and clotting to  body temperature, digestion, and breathing.
acetaminophen reduces fever and pain, but doesn't ease  inflammation.
as with any other drug, users should also be careful about interactions with other drugs.
beyond its role as a pain reliever, aspirin is showing  value in preventing ischemic (clotting) strokes and in slowing the formation of  cataracts.
it's combined with caffeine and countless other drugs, both  prescription and over-the-counter.
since its commercial introduction in 1899 by the bayer company, worldwide  popularity of acetylsalicylic acid -- better known as aspirin -- has grown  steadily.
other problems even when taken as directed, aspirin still stirs up problems for some people.
aspirin is not a substitute for other preventive measures, such as losing weight and stopping smoking.
these are the people statistics are made of.
but don't head for the medicine cabinet just yet.
beyond its role as a pain reliever, aspirin is showing value in preventing ischemic (clotting) strokes and in slowing the formation of cataracts.
both can cause overdose -- and, in recent years, each has surpassed aspirin  as a cause of hospitalization.
in 1996, aspirin  ranked eighth among all drugs as a cause of overdose and poisoning.
it's combined with caffeine and countless other drugs, both prescription and over-the-counter.
ibuprofen, sold under the brand-names advil and nuprin, was introduced as a  nonprescription pain reliever in 1984.
and knowing more about aspirin could save you, or someone you care about, a headache or two -- or even a doctor or hospital bill someday.
both can cause overdose -- and, in recent years, each has surpassed aspirin as a cause of hospitalization.
relief begins within minutes; peak  effect is reached in about two hours.
should none of these over-the-counter drugs satisfactorily reduce  discomfort, pain may be a sign of a more serious problem warranting a doctor's  attention.
it's swallowed to prevent heart attacks  and taken to relieve headaches, fever, rheumatism, arthritis, inflammation,  hangovers, and other disorders, real and imagined.
aspirin is aspirin, and it works and it's safe -- if you're careful -- whether it costs 99 cents or $9.99.
because aspirin can disrupt normal blood clotting and cause bleeding, it  should be avoided at least one week prior to surgery and during pregnancy.
when you buy expensive brands, the extra money pays for advertising -- not "faster" or "better" pain relief.
today the drug is sold in everything from tablets and capsules to chewing  gum and elixirs.
and despite its use as a hangover cure, aspirin is even more irritating to the stomach when used with alcohol.
researchers at harvard medical school concluded a six-year study by saying that healthy men over age 50 can cut their heart attack risk in half by taking a single aspirin, every other day.
just about the only thing aspirin lacks is the "magic" that occurs when a doctor writes a prescription for an expensive prescription drug.
..uses, abuses when used correctly, aspirin is a wonder drug.
aspirin can  trigger a serious, often fatal sickness called reye's syndrome in young people  recovering from chicken pox or the flu.
but unlike the "magic" of placebos, the magic of aspirin resides in the aspirin molecule itself.
it has to be to be  aspirin.
overuse, overdose still, the greatest danger of overuse is overdose.
aspirin interferes with many types of medication, including drugs taken for gout, diabetes, and kidney disease.
as little as 10 grams -- about 30 regular-strength tablets -- can be fatal in adults.
there's no evidence that gulping more aspirin more often will improve your chances of avoiding a heart attack.
a reason aspirin ranks so high is simple availability.
regular aspirin use also damages the kidneys and can trigger sudden renal  failure.
perhaps even more important is the drug's role in preventing heart attack by slowing development of blood clots in arteries leading to the heart.
because in spite of the enormity of aspirin use, most of us know less about it than any other drug.
but for best results, it's important to use aspirin only as directed.
other points to keep in mind: don't take aspirin on an empty stomach, and be sure to wash it down with a glass of water.
but what would you really know about the most widely-used pain reliever of  all time?
check with your doctor to see if benefits outweigh possible risks in your case.
aspirin alternatives
those with conditions such as hemophilia, asthma, or allergies should  consult their doctors before using any amount of the drug.
regular aspirin use also damages the kidneys and can trigger sudden renal failure.
..sidebar | rx for the heart after a century on the job, aspirin's still working wonders -- and in  wondrous new ways.
there's no evidence that gulping more aspirin more  often will improve your chances of avoiding a heart attack.
..sidebar | rx for the heart after a century on the job, aspirin's still working wonders -- and in wondrous new ways.
this "magic" relieves pain about half the time -- even when the  contents of the capsule are only sugar.
just consider these, for starters: for some users, aspirin can cause ringing in the ears, dizziness, vomiting,  and hearing loss.
because of the risks,  aspirin makers are required by law to add warning labels about reye's syndrome  to product packages.
some experts say a good way to take aspirin is to crush it and mix it with orange juice or honey and lemon to reduce stomach irritation and permit faster absorption.
this "magic" relieves pain about half the time -- even when the contents of the capsule are only sugar.
head to the doctor, if  you think you might benefit.
such symptoms usually disappear when aspirin use stops.
relief begins within minutes; peak effect is reached in about two hours.
check with your doctor to see if benefits outweigh possible  risks in your case.
the most popular is acetaminophen, sold under the brand-names tylenol and  datril (among others).
..consumer, be wise pointing out its possible risks isn't meant to turn people away from  moderate aspirin use.
you'd have seen it rush to where it hurts five times faster while it was  twice as gentle to your stomach, unclanging bell-ringer headaches as it  neutralized neuritis, neuralgia, and a long list of muscular aches and pains.
it's available wherever you might happen to be: grocery and drug stores,  gas stations, airports, restaurants, glove compartments, purses, and desk  drawers.
its effects are also altered by vitamin c, which slows elimination of the drug from the body, and by alcohol.
a bottle is always around somewhere, waiting to be downed by a curious child (aspirin is still a leading cause of poisoning in kids) or by adults who think that if a little aspirin makes them feel better, a lot will make them feel wonderful.
it works like aspirin to block both fever and swelling and may work better against certain types of pain, like menstrual cramps.
for more severe pain, a physician can prescribe other preparations,  including narcotics and synthetic pain relievers.
but no matter what form you buy or where you find it, all aspirin works in the same way: by blocking production of hormone-like chemicals (called prostaglandins) involved in everything from blood circulation and clotting to body temperature, digestion, and breathing.
and even then, you should be aware of two key points: more is not better.
some reports have even linked ibuprofen to a reversible, temporary form of  kidney failure in as many as a quarter of patients studied.
it works like aspirin to block both  fever and swelling and may work better against certain types of pain, like  menstrual cramps.
for more severe pain, a physician can prescribe other preparations, including narcotics and synthetic pain relievers.
the syndrome can cause brain damage and death.
and knowing more about aspirin could save you, or  someone you care about, a headache or two -- or even a doctor or hospital bill  someday.
when you buy  expensive brands, the extra money pays for advertising -- not  "faster" or "better" pain relief.
should none of these over-the-counter drugs satisfactorily reduce discomfort, pain may be a sign of a more serious problem warranting a doctor's attention.
if you're one of the people who can't take aspirin, there are alternatives.
we think it's your right -- your obligation, even -- to know about this  popular and potent drug.
and all aspirin is alike.
there are also a number of possible side effects and other problems you should be aware of if you take aspirin.
because in spite of the enormity of aspirin  use, most of us know less about it than any other drug.
aspirin really is a wonder drug -- as effective at stopping pain as many prescription analgesics, and its beneficial effects on health only make it that much more of a boon than it has been all along.
we think it's your right -- your obligation, even -- to know about this popular and potent drug.
and, increasingly, you would have heard it  extolled as a way of preventing heart attacks.
and both acetaminophen and ibuprofen appear to damage kidneys with regular use.
its effects are also altered by vitamin c, which slows elimination of the  drug from the body, and by alcohol.
in fact, evidence of the drug's dangers in pregnancy -- including prolonged labor, heavier bleeding, and abnormal clotting in mother and child -- has prompted federal officials to recommend warning labels for all aspirin products.
but even aspirin alternatives aren't entirely safe.
and there's a lot more to it than that.
in addition, regular aspirin use may increase risks of bleeding stroke, which is more often fatal than ischemic stroke.
the alternative can be every bit as deadly as a heart  attack.
whether it costs 99 cents or $9.99.
if you've watched the evening news on tv more than three times in your  life, you might think you know all there is to know about aspirin.
and, increasingly, you would have heard it extolled as a way of preventing heart attacks.
aspirin is not a substitute for other preventive measures, such as losing  weight and stopping smoking.
perhaps even more important is the drug's role in preventing heart attack  by slowing development of blood clots in arteries leading to the heart.
oh, we know it works -- usually, when taken as directed -- but that's about it.
because of the risks, aspirin makers are required by law to add warning labels about reye's syndrome to product packages.
head to the doctor, if you think you might benefit.
researchers at harvard medical school concluded a six-year study by saying  that healthy men over age 50 can cut their heart attack risk in half by taking  a single aspirin, every other day.
it's available wherever you might happen to be: grocery and drug stores, gas stations, airports, restaurants, glove compartments, purses, and desk drawers.
today the drug is sold in everything from tablets and capsules to chewing gum and elixirs.
just about the only thing aspirin lacks is the "magic" that  occurs when a doctor writes a prescription for an expensive prescription drug.
a bottle is always around somewhere, waiting to be downed by a curious  child (aspirin is still a leading cause of poisoning in kids) or by adults who  think that if a little aspirin makes them feel better, a lot will make them  feel wonderful.
if you've watched the evening news on tv more than three times in your life, you might think you know all there is to know about aspirin.
there are also a number of possible side effects and other problems you  should be aware of if you take aspirin.
this is one in a series of publications on drugs, behavior, and health  by do it now foundation.
you'd have seen migraines pampered and vanquished, and arthritis pain formulized out of existence.
the most common effect of overuse is stomach upset -- from pain and nausea  to bleeding ulcers and chronic indigestion.
no matter what some brand-name aspirin makers say in their tv ads, there's no real difference between brand-name and no-name aspirin.
and both acetaminophen and ibuprofen appear to  damage kidneys with regular use.