after a  patient has taken warfarin for three months, a doctor should reevaluate the  patient’s need to continue taking it.
nearly half of these hospitalizations were among adults 80 years of age or older.
warfarin acts as  an antagonist of vitamin k. (g&g 1477)
methods clinical and genetic data from 4043 patients were used to create a dose algorithm that was based on clinical variables only and an algorithm in which genetic information was added to the clinical variables.
other drugs languish over time, and still others are superceded by newer drugs that are more effective and/or less toxic.
physicians should be aware of this association, since this drug combination is widely prescribed.
unfortunately,  there is a very long list of prescription meds that interact with warfarin (see  tables 2 & 3).
the fda release also stated that separating the administration time of the dose of each drug did not reduce the harmful interaction of this therapy.
in january, the fda issued information on the dosage and  administration of warfarin.
but due to the rapidly changing nature of medical  knowledge, new warfarin drug interactions are regularly discovered.
following the report of hemorrhagic disorder in cattle, the cause was found to be spoiled sweet clover silage, and the hemorrhagic agent was identified in 1939.
warfarin has been used as an anticoagulant  (“blood thinner”) to reduce the chances of blood clots in high-risk  individuals.
an fda advisory committee has unanimously recommended that all drugs be  accompanied by such medication guides, but at present, less than 5 percent of  drugs are.
the other 95 percent of drugs are accompanied by unregulated, often dangerously incomplete, information leaflets not approved by the fda.
do not change your diet  or take nutritional supplements or vitamins without first checking with your  doctor.
however, it has been noted that beyond 30 days, there was no significant advantage to treatment with clopidogrel over a placebo in regard to cardiovascular death or nonfatal heart attack.
when a patient’s blood has already been thinned by warfarin, the platelet’s job becomes even more important.
the fact that clopidogrel is no better than aspirin in preventing a second heart attack or stroke did not stop its manufacturer from advertising it as a better drug overall.
so be sure  to consult with your health professional if you have any questions regarding  interactions of warfarin with any other medications.
their dose of the drug will be adjusted until  their test result is somewhere in that range.
a single clinical trial was the basis for the fda approval of clopidogrel  for preventing a second heart attack or stroke.
elsewhere i have exposed the attack on the cheap and effective aspirin as a way to pave the way for the sales of plavix, warfarin and other antithrombotic drugs.
adrac reported in february 2008 that it had  received 10 reports of an increase in inr values associated with warfarin and  glucosamine use.
fda boxed warning clopidogrel
the fact that clopidogrel is no better than  aspirin in preventing a second heart attack or stroke did not stop its  manufacturer from advertising it as a better drug overall.
who should not use warfarin
diabetes a fall or blow to the body or head wounds from trauma, ulcers or surgery fever lasting more than a couple of days an intrauterine device (iud) heavy or unusual menstrual bleeding medical or dental surgery severe or continuing diarrhea how to take warfarin
in january, the fda issued information on the dosage and administration of warfarin.
consult with your doctor immediately if any signs of bleeding occur.
warfarin is a drug of considerable benefit after heart-valve replacement  and in the prevention of blood clots from a type of heart-rhythm disturbance  known as atrial fibrillation.
severe  malformations have occurred in infants of mothers taking this drug.
clinical factors, demographic variables, and variations in two genes — cyp2c9 (full name: cytochrome p450, subfamily 2, subfamily c, polypeptide 9) and vkorc1 (full name: vitamin k epoxide reductase complex, subunit 1) — contribute significantly to the variability among patients in dose requirements for warfarin.
other drugs languish over time,  and still others are superceded by newer drugs that are more effective and/or  less toxic.
we  also have included potentially serious interactions listed in the drug’s
in a study examining the management of acute coronary syndromes, clopidogrel was found to be marginally better than aspirin by only 2.1 percent.
because the retail cost of clopidogrel is at least 100 times greater than  the cost of aspirin and is no better than aspirin in preventing a second heart  attack or stroke, its use should be limited to those who cannot take aspirin.
warfarin reduces the blood’s ability to clot (coagulate) and prevents  blood clots from forming in the arteries and veins.
patients also should be made aware of this  drug interaction, since omeprazole is available over the counter without a  prescription.
in the two-year period between march 1998 and march 2000, ttp  was identified in 11 patients from an active surveillance program that involved  blood banks around the u.s. between the end of 1997 and the fourth quarter of  2001, the fda received 16 reports of ttp.
often the bleeding is easy to find, such as in the urine, stool or skin, and it serves as an early warning sign to the patient to have his or her blood checked for excessive “thinning.”
this is especially important for any surgery, including  dental.
heparin increases the rate of the thrombin-antithrombin  reaction at least a thousand fold.
it is used to initiate treatment of  venous thrombosis and pulmonary embolism because of its rapid onset of  action.
the thyroid-warfarin interaction is one of the most common of all drug interactions, and it is important to note that the risk of this interaction occurs primarily when thyroid medication is started, stopped or its dosage is adjusted.
warfarin number 1 causes of hospital emergencies--wp home aspirin prevents mi, cancer, and  alzheimer's disease american heart association warns nsaids cause mi cox-2 inhibitors, their deadly mechanism aha on cox  inhibitors nsaids & myocardial infraction risk--only aspirin is  safe how vioxx kills--jk cox-2 inhibitors not as good  as ibuprofen continued risk after taking vioxx hydrocodone--opiates work for pain management acetaminophen, causes  asthma, liver failure, & male infertility, acetaminophen causes  male infertility acetaminophen leading drug cause of liver damage acetaminophen  increase asthma risk 63% asthma risk and acetaminophen warfarin number 1 causes of hospital emergencies--wp plavix has  serious side effects--aspirin preferred
some complementary and alternative medications (cams) have been shown to interact with warfarin.
keep in mind that serious bleeding is uncommon, and as long as  clotting has not been slowed too much, the benefit of warfarin for  well-established indications often outweighs the risks.
according to the fda release, the concurrent use of clopidogrel and  omeprazole resulted in a reduction in the effectiveness of clopidogrel.
inform health care professionals that tests are available to identify  genetic differences in cyp2c19 function.
store at room temperature with the lid on tightly.
the fda  release also stated that separating the administration time of the dose of each  drug did not reduce the harmful interaction of this therapy.
the  class of fluoroquinolone antibiotics includes drugs such as ciprofloxacin  (cipro).
do not store in the bathroom.
if you plan to have any surgery, including dental, tell your doctor that you take this drug.
the nejm authors found that four drugs or drug classes were  implicated alone or in combination in more than two-thirds of hospitalizations for adverse drug reactions: warfarin (coumadin, jantoven; 33.3 percent),  insulins (13.9 percent), oral antiplatelet agents (e.g., clopidogrel [plavix]  or aspirin; 13.3 percent) and oral hypoglycemic (diabetes) agents (10.7  percent).
an inr higher than that may increase the chance of bleeding, and a ratio lower than that may not protect patients from the clotting for which they are using the drug.
the class of fluoroquinolone antibiotics includes drugs such as ciprofloxacin (cipro).
store at room temperature with lid on tightly.
no safety advantage was found for clopidogrel over aspirin plus esomeprazole in ulcer bleeding.
this risk has been found to increase tenfold in people taking 28 or more  regular-strength acetaminophen tablets per week, or the equivalent of 18 or  more extra-strength tablets per week, compared to those taking warfarin and no  acetaminophen.
it also reduces the risk of death, recurrent heart attacks and stroke after a heart attack.
new england journal of medicine: http://content.nejm.org/cgi/content/short/360/8/753 source: the international warfarin pharmacogenetics consortium at 300 pasteur dr., ln. 301, mailstop 5120, stanford, ca 94305, warfarin dosing the appropriate dose of warfarin is difficult to establish because it can vary by a factor of 10 among patients, and the consequences of receiving an incorrect dose can be catastrophic.
australia’s adverse drug reactions advisory  committee (adrac) has received nine reports of death of skin tissue (skin  necrosis) with warfarin use, of which three were fatal.
in 1948 a more potent synthetic congener was synthetiaed and marketed as a very effective rodenticide.
(it is not known if these 16 reports  included the 11 previously mentioned.)
below is another company funded study with market goals, in this case to get those.
however, in statistically significant results, there were more patients with major bleeding episodes (defined as needing a transfusion of at least two units of blood) in those taking clopidogrel.
although the risk of bleeding in people taking warfarin cannot be completely reduced, even with optimal management, patients taking the drug are less likely to have bleeding problems if they follow dosage directions very carefully, and have their blood tested to measure the degree of clotting inhibition exactly as they have been advised.
especially serious episodes involve sites where irreversible damage mayu result from compression of vital structures (e.g., intracranial, pericardial, verve sheath, or spinal cord).
researchers have struggled to show that  clopidogrel is better than aspirin in preventing certain cardiovascular  incidents such as heart attack and stroke, and they have been largely  unsuccessful in doing this.
sometimes, however, the bleeding is serious or life-threatening but can be difficult to detect, such as bleeding from the stomach or bleeding into the brain, especially when there is a smaller amount of bleeding that does not cause symptoms.
the drug has also been approved by the fda for a condition known as acute coronary syndrome in patients who may be treated with medicines, with a stent (a metal device placed in a coronary vessel to keep it open) or with bypass surgery to reduce the rate of heart attack, stroke and cardiovascular death.
[plavix] or aspirin; 13.3 percent) and oral hypoglycemic (diabetes) agents (10.7 percent).
in the two-year period between march 1998 and march 2000, ttp was identified in 11 patients from an active surveillance program that involved blood banks around the u.s. between the end of 1997 and the fourth quarter of 2001, the fda received 16 reports of ttp.
ask your doctor which of these tests should be done periodically while you are taking this drug: pregnancy and breast-feeding warnings you should not take warfarin while nursing.
improved management of antithrombotic  drugs [warfarin, aspirin, clopidogrel] and antidiabetic drugs [especially  insulin] has the potential to reduce hospitalizations for adverse drug events  in older adults.”
keep out of reach of  children.
results published from a prospective randomized, parallel, double-blind, placebo-controlled study of 45 patients found that acetaminophen (at a dose of 2 or 3 grams a day, administered for 10 days) increased the anticoagulant effect of warfarin in stable patients.
the u.k. medicines and healthcare products regulatory agency (mhra) has received seven reports suggesting an interaction between warfarin and the dietary supplement glucosamine, according to the mhra and the u.k. committee on safety of medicines.
if blood clots form, they can break off from inside the blood  vessel in which they formed and travel throughout the body, sometimes blocking  blood flow within vital organs such as the lungs and brain.
pregnancy and breast-feeding warnings you should not take clopidogrel while nursing.
it also reduces the risk of death, recurrent  heart attacks and stroke after a heart attack.
you should not use warfarin if you have or have had recent surgery, an aneurysm or dissecting aorta, a threatened or incomplete abortion, confirmed or suspected cerebrovascular hemorrhage or active bleeding.
the appropriate dose of warfarin is influenced by various factors, stated in the advisory, and not all of the factors leading to the variability in warfarin dose are known.
a person on  stable doses of warfarin and thyroid replacement medication is not likely to  have problems from the interaction.
clopidogrel should not be used if you are pregnant or are thinking of becoming pregnant.
almost two-thirds of these emergency hospitalizations were due to  unintentional overdoses, either from drug doses that were too high or from  drugs used at recommended doses in combination with other drugs that  effectively increased the amount of the overdosed drug in the body.
clopidogrel and the blood disorder thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (ttp).
in 2009, the fda issued information concerning the use of clopidogrel and  omeprazole.
although the  reported incidence of major bleeding episodes varies considerably, it is  generally less than 5% per year in patients treated with a target inr of 2 to  3.
what you can do make sure the person managing your  warfarin therapy is fully aware of all of the medications you are taking,  including prescription and over-the-counter medications and dietary supplements.
ask your doctor  which of these tests should be done periodically while you are taking this drug: prothrombin time, now measured by the inr (inr should be checked daily for  the first week, weekly until a therapeutic level is achieved and then monthly) complete blood count stool tests for possible blood loss urine tests for possible blood loss pregnancy and breast-feeding warnings you should not take warfarin while nursing.
in 1948 a more potent synthetic  congener was synthetiaed and marketed as a very effective rodenticide.
in fact, one of the most common serious warfarin drug interactions occurs when people on warfarin take common otc painkillers such as aspirin , ibuprofen (advil, medipren, motrin, nuprin), or naproxen (aleve, anaprox, naprosyn).
heparin increases the rate of the thrombin-antithrombin reaction at least a thousand fold.
g&g 1471-72] drug interactions: warfarin (coumadin) worst pills best pills newsletter article  december, 2007http://www.worstpills.org/member/newsletter.cfm?n_id=565 these days, prescription drugs often become popular after drug companies  inundate health professionals and the public with advertising (especially on  television).
higher numbers  indicate thinner blood, so the number increases with warfarin use.
* abstract background genetic variability among patients plays an important role in determining the dose of warfarin that should be used when oral anticoagulation is initiated, but practical methods of using genetic information have not been evaluated in a diverse and large population.
examples of drugs that can do this are  found in table 3.
authors of a recently published study in the new england journal of  medicine (nejm) found that “there were an estimated an estimated  99,628 emergency hospitalizations for adverse drug events in u.s. adults 65  years of age or older each year from 2007 through 2009.”
[heparin is a glycosaminoglycan found in the secretory granules of mast cells.
a recent study confirmed that  antiplatelet medications such as aspirin or nsaids caused a substantial  increase in serious stomach bleeding in people taking warfarin.
be very careful doing activities that may cause cuts or bleeding (such as  shaving or cooking).
nsaids warfarin number 1 causes of hospital emergencies--wp
the international normalized ratio (inr) is a test applied to a sample of a patient’s blood to determine how “thin” it is.
warfarin is also used in patients with abnormal heart rhythms such as  atrial fibrillation, which can cause clots to form in the heart and then travel  to the brain, resulting in a stroke.
although warfarin has saved many lives, its one big drawback is that, by reducing blood clotting, it increases the risk of bleeding.
tell any doctor, dentist, emergency medical technician, pharmacist or surgeon whose care you are under that you take clopidogrel.
the most common is when  another medication throws a monkey wrench into the body’s normal  machinery for getting rid of warfarin from the body (see table 2).
g&g 1478 oral anticoagulants are used to prevent the progression or recurrence of  acute dep vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism following an initial course of  herparin
the thyroid-warfarin  interaction is one of the most common of all drug interactions, and it is  important to note that the risk of this interaction occurs primarily when  thyroid medication is started, stopped or its dosage is adjusted.
the following drugs may cause clinically significant interactions when used together with warfarin.
regulatory actions surrounding warfarin 2006:
while doctors sometimes use warfarin and aspirin together for additive blood thinning, it should only be done after careful consideration of the benefit versus risk balance, because the risk is clearly increased.
note that the drugs listed in tables 1, 2 and 3 represent most of the established and important drug interactions involving warfarin.
moreover, even different lots of the same brand may vary  substantially as to content.
can “alternative” medicines interact with warfarin?
the nejm authors found that four drugs or drug classes were implicated alone or in combination in more than two-thirds of hospitalizations for adverse drug reactions: warfarin (coumadin, jantoven; 33.3 percent), insulins (13.9 percent), oral antiplatelet agents (e.g., clopidogrel
acute coronary syndrome consists of unstable chest pain (angina) and changes in the electrocardiogram (ekg or ecg) that suggest a heart attack.
keep a  record of missed doses and give the list to your doctor at each visit.
who should not use clopidogrel do not use if you have or have had an intracranial hemorrhage or a peptic  ulcer.
clopidogrel and ticlopidine (ticlid), a close chemical relative of clopidogrel, have been linked to ttp.
if you are taking warfarin, you should notify your doctor before taking any  product containing acetaminophen.
do not take any other drugs, including nonprescription products (aspirin,  cold remedies, antacids, laxatives), or change the dose of drugs you are taking  without consulting your doctor.
adrac reported in february 2008 that it had received 10 reports of an increase in inr values associated with warfarin and glucosamine use.
the appropriate  dose of warfarin is influenced by various factors, stated in the advisory, and  not all of the factors leading to the variability in warfarin dose are known.
of the 99,628 annual emergency hospitalizations, by far the largest category implicated waswarfarin, with an estimated annual 33,000 emergency hospitalizations.
it is very important that you take warfarin exactly on schedule, since failing to take this drug properly can cause serious adverse effects (see “side effects” below).
improved management of antithrombotic drugs [warfarin, aspirin, clopidogrel] and antidiabetic drugs [especially insulin] has the potential to reduce hospitalizations for adverse drug events in older adults.”
its anti-clotting action is very difficult to control when other drugs are added or subtracted, or when another drug’s dose is changed.
what is warfarin used for?
elsewhere i have exposed the attack on the cheap and effective aspirin as a  way to pave the way for the sales of plavix, warfarin and other antithrombotic  drugs.
do not change your diet or take nutritional supplements or vitamins without first checking with your doctor.
in addition to lower mi rate, aspirin also reduce risk for alzheimer’s, cancer, and increase survival among cancer patient with stage i, ii, & !!!
a person on stable doses of warfarin and thyroid replacement medication is not likely to have problems from the interaction.
in the august 1999 issue of the journal stroke, researchers compared the benefits of clopidogrel to aspirin in reducing stroke, heart attack and death from diseases of the blood vessels, concluding that these two drugs work in different ways to prevent platelet aggregation, and currently there is no evidence that one way is better than the other.
patients also should be made aware of this drug interaction, since omeprazole is available over the counter without a prescription.
in some classes with multiple drugs, the interaction may have been reported for one but not all drugs in the class, but we include the interaction because the drugs in this class are similar to one another.
call your doctor if these symptoms continue: abdominal or stomach pain, anxiety, back pain, constipation, diarrhea, depression, dizziness, fever, chills, headache, heartburn, insomnia, itching, joint pain, leg cramps, muscle aches, nausea or vomiting, numbness or tingling or skin rash.
still other drugs can also affect the ability of the liver to manufacture these clotting factors.
lovastatin mevacor meclofenamate meclomen meloxicam mobic metronidazole flagyl miconazole monistat, monistat-derm nabumetone relafen naproxen aleve, anaprox, naprosyn oxandrolone oxandrin
the fda announced on oct. 10 that it would require that an agency-approved medication guide, which provides information about drug safety, accompany all new and refill prescriptions for the blood thinner warfarin.
also, an nejm study published on april 20, 2006, found that clopidogrel, when given in combination with aspirin, was overall no more effective than aspirin alone in reducing the rate of heart attacks, strokes or deaths from cardiovascular causes.
what side effects does warfarin have?
for most patients who use warfarin, the desired  inr range is between 2 and 3.
that may increase risk of clotting with warfarin generic name brand name examples aminoglutethimide cytadren aprepitant emend azathioprine imuran carbamazepine carbatrol, tegretol cholestyramine locholest, questran, questran light colestipol colestid dicloxacillin dycill, dynapen griseofulvin mercaptopurine purinethol nafcillin nallpen, unipen nevirapine viramune oxcarbazepine trileptal phenobarbital luminal, solfoton phenytoin dilantin primidone mysoline ribavirin copegus, peginterferon, rebetol, ribasphere, virazole rifabutin mycobutin rifampin rifadin, rimactane
also, a large proportion  of hospitalizations for adverse drug reactions do not occur through the  emergency room, since many life-threatening reactions (such as liver toxicity,  heart failure and other drug-induced diseases) may slowly worsen, leading to  elective, not emergency, hospitalization.
this  means that warfarin is being destroyed too fast so warfarin levels are reduced,  the patient’s inr goes below the desired range, and the patient is more  at risk of having a serious blood clot.
clopidogrel in research studies cardiovascular events.
make sure  to tell your doctor and pharmacist the drugs you are taking and whether you  take any of these interacting drugs: acemetacin, ansaid, atorvastatin, clinoril, coumadin, daypro, demadex,  diclofenac, dilantin, enoxaparin, eptifibatide, etodolac, feldene, fenbufen,  fenoprofen, flurbiprofen, fluvastatin, ibuprofen, indomethacin, integrilin,  ketoprofen, ketorolac, lescol, lipitor, lodine, lovenox, meclofenamate,  mefenamic acid, meloxicam, mobic, nadroparin, nalfon, naproxen, nolvadex,  orinase, oruvail, oxaprozin, phenytoin, piroxicam, ponstel, sulindac,  tamoxifen, tiaprofenic acid, tolbutamide, tolectin, tolfenamic acid, tolmetin,  toradol, torsemide, voltaren, warfarin regulatory actions surrounding clopidogrel
keep in mind that dietary supplements are generally not standardized, so  different brands may interact differently because the amount of active  ingredient (and in some cases “inactive” ingredients) may not be  the same.
the onset of symptoms is sudden and has occurred as soon as 24 hours after starting treatment with a fluoroquinolone.
other interactions may lower the inr below the desired range and thereby put the patient at risk of clotting.
another medication may either increase or decrease warfarin’s action (see “warfarin: interactions” box below).
platelets normally help prevent bleeding by sticking together and plugging up leaks in blood vessels.
selected prescription and over-the counter medications
the onset of symptoms is sudden and has occurred as soon as 24 hours  after starting treatment with a fluoroquinolone.
patients over 60 years of age should generally be taking less than the usual adult dose to lower the risk of heavy bleeding (hemorrhage).
there is reduced  effectiveness in patients who are poor metabolizers of plavix.
poor metabolizers do not effectively convert plavix to its active form in the body.
combining warfarin with these painkillers increases the  risk of serious stomach bleeding.
most people have recovered completely after one to two months.
clopidogrel: interactions
minimizing the risk of warfarin-induced bleeding, however, also requires that patients pay close attention to drug interactions because some of these can raise the international normalized ratio (inr; see box) into a range that is too high, with an unnecessarily increased risk of bleeding.
still other drugs can also affect the ability of the liver to manufacture  these clotting factors.
do not use warfarin if you have or have had eclampsia or preeclampsia; blood disorders; or severe, uncontrolled high blood pressure.
keep out of reach of children.
the normal  value in people not using warfarin ranges from 0.8 to 1.2.
no safety advantage was found  for clopidogrel over aspirin plus esomeprazole in ulcer bleeding.
but after the initial hype, some of these drugs are doomed to extinction due to toxicity – sometimes unanticipated, and sometimes known but hidden or downplayed by those with a vested interest.
australia’s adverse drug reactions advisory committee (adrac) has received nine reports of death of skin tissue (skin necrosis) with warfarin use, of which three were fatal.
warfarin is also used in patients with abnormal heart rhythms such as atrial fibrillation, which can cause clots to form in the heart and then travel to the brain, resulting in a stroke.
how can the risk of bleeding be minimized?
the use of a pharmacogenetic algorithm for estimating the appropriate initial dose of warfarin produces recommendations that are significantly closer to the required stable therapeutic dose than those derived from a clinical algorithm or a fixed-dose approach.
poor  metabolizers do not effectively convert plavix to its active form in the body.
of the 99,628 annual emergency hospitalizations, by far the largest  category implicated waswarfarin, with an estimated annual 33,000 emergency  hospitalizations.
before you use warfarin tell your doctor about any other drugs you take (including aspirin, herbs,  vitamins and other nonprescription products) and whether you have or have had: allergies to drugs heart problems (including atrial fibrillation, myocardial infarction or  stroke) thromboembolism ulcers or other lesions of the gastrointestinal tract, respiratory  tract or urinary tract kidney or liver problems severe inflammation of blood vessels subacute bacterial endocarditis (infection of the heart)
the risk of intracranial hemorrhage increases dramatically with an inr  greater than 3, especially in older patients.
also, a large proportion of hospitalizations for adverse drug reactions do not occur through the emergency room, since many life-threatening reactions (such as liver toxicity, heart failure and other drug-induced diseases) may slowly worsen, leading to elective, not emergency, hospitalization.
in 2009, the fda issued information concerning the use of clopidogrel and omeprazole.
eat a normal, balanced diet.
who should not use clopidogrel do not use if you have or have had an intracranial hemorrhage or a peptic ulcer.
the following drugs, biologics (e.g., vaccines, therapeutic antibodies) and foods are listed in evaluations of drug interactions 2003 as causing “highly clinically significant” or “clinically significant” interactions when used together with any of the drugs in clopidogrel’s class.
if these clots travel to the lungs, they can cause what is known as a pulmonary embolism, which is frequently fatal.
the take-home message is not to take any otc medication – and  especially any painkiller – without checking first with the person who is  managing your warfarin therapy.
there may be other drugs, especially those in the families of the drugs listed below, that also will react with this drug to cause severe adverse effects.
after a patient has taken warfarin for three months, a doctor should reevaluate the patient’s need to continue taking it.
this is exactly what happened to  my friend danny bronstein who was taking warfarin, a tranquilizer at night, and  an add medication during the dayj—jk.} “thus,” they stated, “most of these emergency  hospitalizations for recognized adverse drug events in older adults resulted  from a few commonly used medications.
it is used to initiate treatment of venous thrombosis and pulmonary embolism because of its rapid onset of action.
the advisory emphasized that the dose of warfarin must be individualized and that lab monitoring is necessary.
this risk has been found to increase tenfold in people taking 28 or more regular-strength acetaminophen tablets per week, or the equivalent of 18 or more extra-strength tablets per week, compared to those taking warfarin and no acetaminophen.
the greatest benefits were observed in the 46.2% of the population that required 21 mg or less of warfarin per week or 49 mg or more per week for therapeutic anticoagulation.
side effects call your doctor immediately if you experience: black, tarry stools; blood  in urine or stools; chest pain; coughing; fainting; fever, chills, sneezing or  sore throat; frequent, painful or difficult urination; generalized pain; sudden  or severe headaches; irregular heartbeat; joint pain; nosebleeds; red or purple  spots on the skin; runny nose; shortness of breath; skin blistering, flaking or  peeling; severe stomach pain; swelling of the feet or lower legs; ulcers, sores  or white spots in the mouth; unusual bleeding or bruising; vomiting of blood or  material that looks like coffee grounds; or sudden weakness.
some medications can interfere with the function of the blood’s platelets.
research published in the jan. 20, 2005, nejm found “an astonishingly high rate of bleeding ulcers” in patients taking clopidogrel compared to patients taking aspirin plus the antiulcer/heartburn drug esomeprazole (nexium).
also tell  your doctor if you are pregnant or breast-feeding and if you are taking any  other drugs, including aspirin, herbs, vitamins and other nonprescription  products.
sometimes, however, the bleeding is serious or life-threatening but can be  difficult to detect, such as bleeding from the stomach or bleeding into the  brain, especially when there is a smaller amount of bleeding that does not  cause symptoms.
it is likely that thyroid replacement hormones act in this way.
if you miss a dose, take it as soon as you remember, but skip it if it is  almost time for the next dose.
this is especially important for any surgery, including dental.
other  interactions may lower the inr below the desired range and thereby put the  patient at risk of clotting.
in this study, 1 percent more patients  taking clopidogrel had a major bleeding episode compared to the aspirin-treated  patients, but there was no statistically significant difference between those  taking clopidogrel or aspirin inregard to episodes of life-threatening bleeding.
this may be due to  genetic factors that influence how the body metabolizes clopidogrel or the  effect that certain other drugs (such as ppis) have on the effectiveness of  clopidogrel.
also tell your doctor if you are pregnant or breast-feeding and if you are taking any other drugs, including aspirin, herbs, vitamins and other nonprescription products.
enter supporting content here
before you use clopidogrel tell your doctor if you have or have had an allergy to this drug, bleeding  problems, liver disease, stomach ulcers, recent surgery or trauma.
(see table 1 for some dietary supplements that may interact with warfarin.)
g&g 1471-72] drug interactions: warfarin (coumadin)
(see table 1 for some  dietary supplements that may interact with warfarin.)
in a study examining the management of acute coronary syndromes,  clopidogrel was found to be marginally better than aspirin by only 2.1 percent.
the  drug has also been approved by the fda for a condition known as acute coronary  syndrome in patients who may be treated with medicines, with a stent (a metal  device placed in a coronary vessel to keep it open) or with bypass surgery to  reduce the rate of heart attack, stroke and cardiovascular death.
a regular-strength acetaminophen tablet contains 325 milligrams  (mg) of acetaminophen, and an extra-strength tablet contains 500 mg of the  drug.
often the bleeding is easy to find, such as in the urine,  stool or skin, and it serves as an early warning sign to the patient to have  his or her blood checked for excessive “thinning.”
warfarin should not be used if  you are pregnant or are thinking of becoming pregnant.
clopidogrel (family: adenosine diphosphate blockers,  blood-clotting inhibitors) limited use: offers limited benefit or benefits certain people or  conditions about clopidogrel clopidogrel is approved by the fda to reduce the risk of a new heart attack  or stroke in patients with a history of a recent heart attack or stroke.
higher numbers indicate thinner blood, so the number increases with warfarin use.
a critique of the trial concluded by saying that the result “leaves open questions about whether such a difference is clinically meaningful or, in fact, reproducible.”
physicians should be aware of this association, since this drug  combination is widely prescribed.
although warfarin has saved many  lives, its one big drawback is that, by reducing blood clotting, it increases  the risk of bleeding.
in four cases, the onset occurred within seven days of commencing warfarin, but in three cases, the first symptoms occurred three to eight weeks after starting warfarin.
paroxetine paxil, pexeva piroxicam feldene propafenone rythmol rosuvastatin crestor simvastatin zocor sulfinpyrazone anturane sulindac clinoril tamoxifen nolvadex thyroid hormone armour thyroid
in this trial, clopidogrel was  directly compared to aspirin.
warfarin should not be used if you are pregnant or are thinking of becoming pregnant.
zafirlukast accolate zileuton zyflo table 3.
the long-term use of clopidogrel in the management of patients with acute coronary syndromes is unclear.
take the drug at the same time(s) each day.
be very careful doing activities that may cause cuts or bleeding (such as shaving or cooking).
severe malformations have occurred in infants of mothers taking this drug.
it is very important that you take warfarin exactly on schedule, since  failing to take this drug properly can cause serious adverse effects (see  “side effects” below).
warfarin (coumadin) is such a drug.
a further analysis of the trial mentioned immediately above found that in patients with acute coronary syndrome who were taking aspirin, adding clopidogrel was beneficial, compared to a placebo, in reducing major cardiovascular events.
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ warfarin is an acronym derived from the name of the patent holder wisconsin alumni research foundation.
the list of drugs and other factors that may affect the action of warfarin  and related anticoagulants is prodigious and expanding.
authors of a recently published study in the new england journal of medicine (nejm) found that “there were an estimated an estimated 99,628 emergency hospitalizations for adverse drug events in u.s. adults 65 years of age or older each year from 2007 through 2009.”
ttp is a life-threatening adverse effect that is characterized by a breakdown of red blood cells, low levels of cells that help stop bleeding (platelets), fever, mental changes and kidney problems.
goodman  & gilman 11th edition 2006, p. 1475
the take-home message is not to take any otc medication – and especially any painkiller – without checking first with the person who is managing your warfarin therapy.
in some classes with multiple drugs, the interaction  may have been reported for one but not all drugs in the class, but we include  the interaction because the drugs in this class are similar to one another.
its anti-clotting action is very difficult to control when other drugs are  added or subtracted, or when another drug’s dose is changed.
long-term clopidogrel may be no better than aspirin.
there are an estimated annual 33,000 emergency hospitalizations per year from the taking of warfarin.
this may be due to genetic factors that influence how the body metabolizes clopidogrel or the effect that certain other drugs (such as ppis) have on the effectiveness of clopidogrel.
warfarin acts as an antagonist of vitamin k. (g&g 1477)
we developed and used an algorithm for estimating the appropriate warfarin dose that is based on both clinical and genetic data from a broad population base.
this can be just as dangerous as drug interactions that increase bleeding risk.
long-term clopidogrel may be no better than  aspirin.
proper clotting involves both the production of chemicals called clotting factors (it is this process that warfarin inhibits) and the activity of small particles suspended in the blood called platelets.
acetaminophen may interact with warfarin to  increase the risk of bleeding, a risk that rises with increasing doses of  acetaminophen.
the risk of intracranial hemorrhage increases dramatically with an inr greater than 3, especially in older patients.
although the risk of  bleeding in people taking warfarin cannot be completely reduced, even with  optimal management, patients taking the drug are less likely to have bleeding  problems if they follow dosage directions very carefully, and have their blood  tested to measure the degree of clotting inhibition exactly as they have been  advised.
keep a record of missed doses and give the list to your doctor at each visit.
before you use warfarin tell your doctor about any other drugs you take (including aspirin, herbs, vitamins and other nonprescription products) and whether you have or have had: how to take warfarin
make sure to tell your doctor and pharmacist about all  of the drugs and dietary supplements you are taking and whether you take any of  the following:acetaminophen (alone and in combination), achromycin, alcohol (if  concomitant liver disease), alurate, amiodarone, amobarbital, amoxicillin,  amoxicillin and clavulanate, amoxicillin/tranexamic rinse, amoxil, antabuse,  anturane, aprobarbital, arava, aspirin (alone and in combination), atromid-s,  augmentin, azathioprine, azithromycin, azulfidine, bactrim, biaxin, bosentan,  butabarbital, butazolidin, butisol, carbamazepine, carbatrol, cardizem,  cardizem cd, celebrex, celecoxib, celexa, chibroxin, chloral hydrate,  chloramphenicol, chlordiazepoxide, chloromycetin, cholestyramine, cipro,  ciprofloxacin, citalopram, clarithromycin, clinoril, clofibrate, comtan,  cordarone, cotrim, cotrimoxazole, darvon, darvon-n, dextropropoxyphene,  dicloxacillin, diflucan, dilacor xr, dilantin, diltiazem, disopyramide,  disulfiram, diulo, duraquin, dycill, dynapen, easprin, ecotrin, ees, empirin,  entacapone, erythrocin, erythromycin, felbamate, felbatol, feldene,  fenofibrate, flagyl, floxin, fluconazole, fluvastatin, fluvoxamine, fortovase,  gatifloxacin, gemfibrozil, genuine bayer aspirin, griseofulvin, imuran,  inderal, inderal la, indocin, indomethacin, inh, interferon, intron a,  invirase, isoniazid, itraconazole, kaletra, lamisil, leflunomide, lescol,  lescol xl, levaquin, levofloxacin, librium, locholest, lopid, luminal, luvox,  mephobarbital, mesalamine, metharbital, metolazone, metronidazole, micardis,  miconazole oral gel, miconazole topical gel, miconazole vaginal suppositories,  monistat 1, monistat 3, monistat 7, monistat-derm, nafcillin, nalidixic acid,  neggram, noctec, norfloxacin, noroxin, norpace, norvir, ofloxacin, pacerone,  panmycin, pentobarbital, phenobarbital, phenylbutazone, phenytoin, piroxicam,  propafenone, propoxyphene, propranolol, questran, questran light, quinaglute  dura-tabs, quinidex, quinidine, requip, ribavirin, rifadin, rifampin,  rimactane, ritonavir, rofecoxib, roferon-a, ropinirole, rythmol, salicylates  (topical), saquinavir, secobarbital, secobarbital and amobarbital, septra,  sertraline, simvastatin, solfoton, sporanox, sulfasalazine, sulfinpyrazone,  sulindac, tegretol, telmisartan, tequin, terbinafine, tetracycline, tiazac,  tolectin, tolmetin, tracleer, tramadol, tricor, trimethoprim and  sulfamethoxazole, tylenol, ultram, vfend, vioxx, voriconazole, zaroxolyn,  zithromax, zocor, zoloft when using warfarin
therefore, the likelihood that dangerous clotting will occur decreases with  these higher numbers.
the first step in avoiding bad interactions between warfarin and other  drugs is never to start, stop or change the dosage of any prescription,  non-prescription or alternative medication without informing the health  professional who is managing your warfarin treatment.
so be sure to consult with your health professional if you have any questions regarding interactions of warfarin with any other medications.
some medications can  interfere with the function of the blood’s platelets.
but after the initial hype, some of these drugs are doomed to extinction  due to toxicity – sometimes unanticipated, and sometimes known but hidden  or downplayed by those with a vested interest.
{the numbers for aspirin are really much lower, for if there is  a bleeding episode, most doctors will blame it on aspirin, even when the  patient is taking several other drugs.
make sure to tell your doctor and pharmacist the drugs you are taking and whether you take any of these interacting drugs: acemetacin, ansaid, atorvastatin, clinoril, coumadin, daypro, demadex, diclofenac, dilantin, enoxaparin, eptifibatide, etodolac, feldene, fenbufen, fenoprofen, flurbiprofen, fluvastatin, ibuprofen, indomethacin, integrilin, ketoprofen, ketorolac, lescol, lipitor, lodine, lovenox, meclofenamate, mefenamic acid, meloxicam, mobic, nadroparin, nalfon, naproxen, nolvadex, orinase, oruvail, oxaprozin, phenytoin, piroxicam, ponstel, sulindac, tamoxifen, tiaprofenic acid, tolbutamide, tolectin, tolfenamic acid, tolmetin, toradol, torsemide, voltaren, warfarin regulatory actions surrounding clopidogrel
in response to an action letter request by the fda, the manufacturer of clopidogrel revised the “precautions” section of the product label to include the following statement: “in patients with recent tia [transient ischemic attack] or stroke who are at high risk for recurrent ischemic events, the combination of aspirin and plavix has not been shown to be more effective than plavix alone, but the combination has been shown to increase major bleeding.”
many patients are  prescribed drugs by several different health care professionals: general  physicians, specialists, dentists, nurse practitioners, physician assistants  and others.
proper clotting involves both the production of chemicals called clotting  factors (it is this process that warfarin inhibits) and the activity of small  particles suspended in the blood called platelets.
a recent study confirmed that antiplatelet medications such as aspirin or nsaids caused a substantial increase in serious stomach bleeding in people taking warfarin.
the u.k. medicines and healthcare products regulatory agency (mhra) has  received seven reports suggesting an interaction between warfarin and the  dietary supplement glucosamine, according to the mhra and the u.k. committee on  safety of medicines.
the difference between clopidogrel and aspirin  was very small but statistically significant, favoring clopidogrel.
this is exactly what happened to my friend danny bronstein who was taking warfarin, a tranquilizer at night, and an add medication during the dayj—jk.} “thus,” they stated, “most of these emergency hospitalizations for recognized adverse drug events in older adults resulted from a few commonly used medications.
almost two-thirds of these emergency hospitalizations were due to unintentional overdoses, either from drug doses that were too high or from drugs used at recommended doses in combination with other drugs that effectively increased the amount of the overdosed drug in the body.
it is prescribed to people who have a history of abnormal blood clots or who are at high risk of having abnormal clots.
2010: in march, the fda issued an advisory that a boxed warning has been added to the product information for clopidogrel (see "clopidogrel interactions box above).
in fact, one of the most common serious warfarin drug interactions  occurs when people on warfarin take common otc painkillers such as aspirin , ibuprofen (advil, medipren, motrin, nuprin), or naproxen (aleve,  anaprox, naprosyn).
if you miss a dose, take it as soon as you remember, but skip it if you don’t remember until the next day.
do not use warfarin if you have or have had eclampsia or preeclampsia;  blood disorders; or severe, uncontrolled high blood pressure.
the trial did not show clopidogrel to be superior to aspirin in preventing  a second heart attack or stroke.
the difference between clopidogrel and aspirin was very small but statistically significant, favoring clopidogrel.
what you can do make sure the person managing your warfarin therapy is fully aware of all of the medications you are taking, including prescription and over-the-counter medications and dietary supplements.
this can be just  as dangerous as drug interactions that increase bleeding risk.
following the report of hemorrhagic disorder  in cattle, the cause was found to be spoiled sweet clover silage, and the  hemorrhagic agent was identified in 1939.
in short, patients on warfarin are rarely, if ever, justified in taking dietary supplements.
platelets normally  help prevent bleeding by sticking together and plugging up leaks in blood  vessels.
the normal value in people not using warfarin ranges from 0.8 to 1.2.
it debuted on the u.s. market in 1954, and last year about 24 million prescriptions were filled in u.s. pharmacies for this important drug.
especially serious episodes involve sites where  irreversible damage mayu result from compression of vital structures (e.g.,  intracranial, pericardial, verve sheath, or spinal cord).
in this study, 1 percent more patients taking clopidogrel had a major bleeding episode compared to the aspirin-treated patients, but there was no statistically significant difference between those taking clopidogrel or aspirin inregard to episodes of life-threatening bleeding.
in those cases, patients who previously had a stable  international normalized ratio (inr, which is a measurement of how properly  one’s blood clots) while receiving warfarin experienced an inr increase  (potentially dangerous abnormal thinning of the blood) after they started  receiving glucosamine supplements.
thus these other drugs may join with warfarin to gang  up on the liver to further suppress the production of these important clotting  chemicals.
if you are taking warfarin, you should notify your doctor before taking any product containing acetaminophen.
which prescription medications interact with warfarin?
moreover, even different lots of the same brand may vary substantially as to content.
unless the blood is tested and the warfarin dose is adjusted accordingly, warfarin will accumulate, the blood will become too thin and bleeding may result.
patients over 60 years of age should generally be taking less than the  usual adult dose to lower the risk of heavy bleeding (hemorrhage).
the drug is commonly used in patients with a tendency to form blood clots in their legs (deep venous thrombosis).
when a patient’s blood has already been thinned by warfarin, the  platelet’s job becomes even more important.
warfarin is a drug of considerable benefit after heart-valve replacement and in the prevention of blood clots from a type of heart-rhythm disturbance known as atrial fibrillation.
although the reported incidence of major bleeding episodes varies considerably, it is generally less than 5% per year in patients treated with a target inr of 2 to 3.
is bleeding the only risk with warfarin drug interactions?
clopidogrel and  ticlopidine (ticlid), a close chemical relative of clopidogrel, have been  linked to ttp.
warfarin (coumadin) is such a drug.
according to the fda release, the concurrent use of clopidogrel and omeprazole resulted in a reduction in the effectiveness of clopidogrel.
before you use clopidogrel tell your doctor if you have or have had an allergy to this drug, bleeding problems, liver disease, stomach ulcers, recent surgery or trauma.
in addition, the drug is used to prevent second heart attacks in some patients who have already had one, to prevent clots in patients with artificial heart valves and to treat a number of other blood clotting problems.
in  2006, we petitioned the food and drug administration (fda) to add a warning to  the product label of all fluoroquinolone antibiotics to alert doctors to the  risk of tendinitis, including a warning of the possibility of complete tendon  rupture, which can occur when fluoroquinolones are used with warfarin.
severe malformations  have occurred in infants of mothers taking this drug.
their dose of the drug will be adjusted until their test result is somewhere in that range.
according to the fda, “other drugs that are expected to have a  similar effect and should be avoided in combination with clopidogrel include:  cimetidine, fluconazole, ketoconazole, voriconazole, etravirine,  felbamate, fluoxetine, fluvoxamine and ticlopidine.”
a good example is the commonly used antibiotic with the unwieldy name, trimethoprim and sulfamethoxazole (bactrim, cotrim, septra); it can dramatically increase the blood-thinning effects of warfarin and increase bleeding risk.
selected dietary supplements that may interact with warfarin possible increased risk of bleeding possible increased risk of clotting boldo
wear a medical identification bracelet or carry a card stating that you take warfarin.
the fda announced on oct. 10 that it would require that an  agency-approved medication guide, which provides information about drug safety,  accompany all new and refill prescriptions for the blood thinner warfarin.
warfarin is one of a limited number of drugs for which the fda requires an  fda-approved medication guide to be dispensed when the prescription is filled.
unfortunately, there is a very long list of prescription meds that interact with warfarin (see tables 2 & 3).
part of the problem is that there are several  ways that medications can interact with this drug.
(the same can be said for patients not taking warfarin,  but that is a different story.)
in the august 1999 issue of the journal stroke, researchers compared  the benefits of clopidogrel to aspirin in reducing stroke, heart attack and  death from diseases of the blood vessels, concluding that these two drugs work  in different ways to prevent platelet aggregation, and currently there is no  evidence that one way is better than the other.
aspirin capecitabine xeloda celecoxib celebrex cimetidine tagamet chloramphenicol chloromycetin clarithromycin biaxin danazol danocrine diclofenac voltaren diflunisal dolobid disulfiram antabuse erythromycin ees, erythrocin etodolac lodine etoposide toposar, vepesid
tolmetin tolectin trimethoprim and sulfamethoxazole bactrim, cotrim, septra voriconazole vfend
if you miss a dose, take it as soon as you remember, but skip it if it is almost time for the next dose.
how to take clopidogrel
the appropriate dose of warfarin is difficult to establish because it can vary by a factor of 10 among patients, and the consequences of receiving an incorrect dose can be catastrophic.
goodman & gilman 11th edition 2006, p. 1475 the list of drugs and other factors that may affect the action of warfarin and related anticoagulants is prodigious and expanding.
while doctors sometimes use warfarin and  aspirin together for additive blood thinning, it should only be done after  careful consideration of the benefit versus risk balance, because the risk is  clearly increased.
in 2007, the food and drug administration added pharmacogenetic information to the warfarin product label but did not propose a specific method for using genetic information to predict the dose required for individual patients.
the other 95 percent of drugs are accompanied by unregulated, often  dangerously incomplete, information leaflets not approved by the fda.
signs of overdose if you suspect an overdose (see the signs below), call (800) 222-1222 to contact your poison control center: interactions warfarin can interact with nearly all drugs and some dietary supplements.
call your doctor if these symptoms continue: bloated stomach or gas, cold  intolerance, diarrhea, lossof appetite, nausea or vomiting,stomach cramps or  pain.
2010: in march, the fda issued an advisory that a boxed warning has  been added to the product information for clopidogrel (see "clopidogrel  interactions box above).
in those cases, patients who previously had a stable international normalized ratio (inr, which is a measurement of how properly one’s blood clots) while receiving warfarin experienced an inr increase (potentially dangerous abnormal thinning of the blood) after they started receiving glucosamine supplements.
g&g 1478 oral anticoagulants are used to prevent the progression or recurrence of acute dep vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism following an initial course of herparin
if the blood becomes too thin, the patient may bleed.
acetaminophen may interact with warfarin to increase the risk of bleeding, a risk that rises with increasing doses of acetaminophen.
if blood clots form, they can break off from inside the blood vessel in which they formed and travel throughout the body, sometimes blocking blood flow within vital organs such as the lungs and brain.
in response to an action letter request by the fda, the manufacturer of  clopidogrel revised the “precautions” section of the product label  to include the following statement: “in patients with recent tia  [transient ischemic attack] or stroke who are at high risk for recurrent  ischemic events, the combination of aspirin and plavix has not been shown to be  more effective than plavix alone, but the combination has been shown to  increase major bleeding.”
to help readers avoid possible adverse effects from drug mismanagement, below are excerpts from the updated worstpills.org listings on warfarin and clopidogrel.
research published in the jan. 20, 2005, nejm found “an astonishingly high rate of bleeding ulcers” in  patients taking clopidogrel compared to patients taking aspirin plus the  antiulcer/heartburn drug esomeprazole (nexium).
there is reduced effectiveness in patients who are poor metabolizers of plavix.
advise health care professionals to consider use of other anti-platelet medications or alternative dosing strategies for plavix in patients identified as poor metabolizers.
fda-approved product label or in published medical journal articles.
warfarin is an acronym derived from the name of the patent holder wisconsin  alumni research foundation.
it should be noted that many adverse-reaction deaths occur at home, such as  those seen with darvon, wherein patients, especially older adults, were found  dead from the drug’s heart-toxic effects.
a critique  of the trial concluded by saying that the result “leaves open questions  about whether such a difference is clinically meaningful or, in fact,  reproducible.”
this resulted in the  fda warning bristol-myers squibb/sanofi in april 2001 about its false and  misleading promotion of clopidogrel as being superior to aspirin.
most people have recovered  completely after one to two months.
the first step in avoiding bad interactions between warfarin and other drugs is never to start, stop or change the dosage of any prescription, non-prescription or alternative medication without informing the health professional who is managing your warfarin treatment.
selected prescription and over-the-counter medications
therefore, the likelihood that dangerous clotting will occur decreases with these higher numbers.
examples of drugs that can do this are found in table 3.
some  drugs interfere with the blood-thinning effects of warfarin, cause the inr to  decrease and may actually increase the risk of having a clot.
wear a medical identification bracelet or carry a card stating that you  take warfarin.
you should not  use warfarin if you have or have had recent surgery, an aneurysm or dissecting  aorta, a threatened or incomplete abortion, confirmed or suspected  cerebrovascular hemorrhage or active bleeding.
minimizing the risk of warfarin-induced bleeding, however, also requires  that patients pay close attention to drug interactions because some of these  can raise the international normalized ratio (inr; see box) into a range  that is too high, with an unnecessarily increased risk of bleeding.
side effects call your doctor immediately if you experience: abnormal bleeding; bloody, cloudy or dark urine; difficult or painful urination or sudden decrease in the amount of urine; dizziness or fainting; swelling of the ankles, feet or legs; unusual weight gain; blue or purple toes; chills, fever, sore throat or unusual tiredness; yellow eyes or skin; nausea or vomiting; diarrhea; skin rash, hives or itching; sores or white spots in mouth or throat; sores on skin; stomach cramps or pain; loss of appetite; nervousness; confusion; blurred vision; chest pain; or difficulty breathing.
risk of tendinitis when used with fluoroquinolone antibiotics.
do not share your medication with others.
in a validation cohort of 1009 subjects, we evaluated the potential clinical value of each algorithm by calculating the percentage of patients whose predicted dose of warfarin was within 20% of the actual stable therapeutic dose; we also evaluated other clinically relevant indicators.
there are an estimated annual 33,000 emergency hospitalizations per year  from the taking of warfarin.
while taking warfarin, patients should be  monitored with regular blood tests to ensure that the most effective dose of  the drug is being taken.
thus these other drugs may join with warfarin to gang up on the liver to further suppress the production of these important clotting chemicals.
in 2006, we petitioned the food and drug administration (fda) to add a warning to the product label of all fluoroquinolone antibiotics to alert doctors to the risk of tendinitis, including a warning of the possibility of complete tendon rupture, which can occur when fluoroquinolones are used with warfarin.
can over-the-counter (otc) medications interact with warfarin?
clinical factors, demographic variables,  and variations in two genes — cyp2c9 (full name: cytochrome p450,  subfamily 2, subfamily c, polypeptide 9) and vkorc1 (full name: vitamin k  epoxide reductase complex, subunit 1) — contribute significantly to the  variability among patients in dose requirements for warfarin.
other medications can have the opposite effect from the monkey wrench, and  ramp up the warfarin-gobbling machinery into “turbo” mode.
do not expose to heat, moisture or strong light.
effect decreased when combined with omeprazole (prilosec).
in four cases, the  onset occurred within seven days of commencing warfarin, but in three cases,  the first symptoms occurred three to eight weeks after starting warfarin.
warfarin: interactions
bleeding is the major toxicity of  orgal anticoagulant drugs.
some drugs interfere with the blood-thinning effects of warfarin, cause the inr to decrease and may actually increase the risk of having a clot.
published medical literature shows that clopidogrel  is less effective in some patients than it is in others.
while taking warfarin, patients should be monitored with regular blood tests to ensure that the most effective dose of the drug is being taken.
a single clinical trial was the basis for the fda approval of clopidogrel for preventing a second heart attack or stroke.
many patients are prescribed drugs by several different health care professionals: general physicians, specialists, dentists, nurse practitioners, physician assistants and others.
a regular-strength acetaminophen tablet contains 325 milligrams (mg) of acetaminophen, and an extra-strength tablet contains 500 mg of the drug.
part of the problem is that there are several ways that medications can interact with this drug.
but occasionally a drug has staying power and continues to be used over the  decades.
oxaprozin daypro oxymetholone anadrol
but occasionally a drug has staying power and continues to be used over the decades.
when using clopidogrel do not exceed the prescribed dose.
advise health care professionals to consider use of other anti-platelet  medications or alternative dosing strategies for plavix in patients identified  as poor metabolizers.
be sure to schedule regular doctor visits for blood tests.
to help readers avoid possible adverse effects from drug mismanagement,  below are excerpts from the updated worstpills.org listings on warfarin and  clopidogrel.
that may increase risk of bleeding with warfarin generic name brand name examples acetaminophen (especially large doses)
if you miss a dose, take it as soon as you remember, but skip it if you  don’t remember until the next day.
warfarin also called coumadin http://www.worstpills.org/member/newsletter.cfm?n_id=777 worstpills.org
this resulted in the fda warning bristol-myers squibb/sanofi in april 2001 about its false and misleading promotion of clopidogrel as being superior to aspirin.
in short, patients on warfarin are rarely, if ever, justified in taking  dietary supplements.
the trial did not show clopidogrel to be superior to aspirin in preventing a second heart attack or stroke.
warfarin (family: blood-clotting inhibitors) about warfarin
warfarin has been used as an anticoagulant (“blood thinner”) to reduce the chances of blood clots in high-risk individuals.
another  medication may either increase or decrease warfarin’s action (see  “warfarin: interactions” box below).
side effects call your doctor immediately if you experience: black, tarry stools; blood in urine or stools; chest pain; coughing; fainting; fever, chills, sneezing or sore throat; frequent, painful or difficult urination; generalized pain; sudden or severe headaches; irregular heartbeat; joint pain; nosebleeds; red or purple spots on the skin; runny nose; shortness of breath; skin blistering, flaking or peeling; severe stomach pain; swelling of the feet or lower legs; ulcers, sores or white spots in the mouth; unusual bleeding or bruising; vomiting of blood or material that looks like coffee grounds; or sudden weakness.
in addition to lower mi rate, aspirin also reduce risk for alzheimer’s, cancer, and increase survival among cancer patient with  stage i, ii, & !!!
an inr higher than that may  increase the chance of bleeding, and a ratio lower than that may not protect  patients from the clotting for which they are using the drug.
notice the failure to mention side effects, and the article source--jk.
keep in mind that dietary supplements are generally not standardized, so different brands may interact differently because the amount of active ingredient (and in some cases “inactive” ingredients) may not be the same.
selected dietary supplements that may interact with warfarin possible increased risk of bleeding possible increased risk of clotting boldo chitosan danshen dong quai fenugreek feverfew ginkgo biloba quilinggao coenzyme q10 ginseng green tea st. john’s wort table 2.
[heparin is a glycosaminoglycan found in the secretory granules of  mast cells.
the appropriate dose of warfarin is difficult to establish because it can  vary by a factor of 10 among patients, and the consequences of receiving an  incorrect dose can be catastrophic.
call your doctor if these symptoms continue: abdominal or stomach pain,  anxiety, back pain, constipation, diarrhea, depression, dizziness, fever,  chills, headache, heartburn, insomnia, itching, joint pain, leg cramps, muscle  aches, nausea or vomiting, numbness or tingling or skin rash.
tell any doctor, dentist, emergency  medical technician, pharmacist or surgeon whose care you are under that you  take clopidogrel.
according to the fda, “other drugs that are expected to have a similar effect and should be avoided in combination with clopidogrel include: cimetidine, fluconazole, ketoconazole, voriconazole, etravirine, felbamate, fluoxetine, fluvoxamine and ticlopidine.”
do not store in the  bathroom.
the following drugs, biologics (e.g., vaccines, therapeutic antibodies) and  foods are listed in evaluations of drug interactions 2003 as causing  “highly clinically significant” or “clinically  significant” interactions when used together with any of the drugs in  clopidogrel’s class.
the advisory emphasized that the dose of warfarin  must be individualized and that lab monitoring is necessary.
some complementary and alternative medications (cams) have been shown to  interact with warfarin.
it is likely  that thyroid replacement hormones act in this way.
signs of overdose if you suspect an overdose (see the signs below), call (800) 222-1222 to  contact your poison control center: bleeding gums when brushing teeth nosebleeds unusually heavy bleeding from cuts or wounds unusually heavy or unexpected menstrual bleeding abdominal pain or swelling blood or material that looks like coffee grounds expelled when coughing or  vomiting pinpoint red spots on skin interactions warfarin can interact with nearly all drugs and some dietary supplements.
worst pills best pills newsletter article december, 2007http://www.worstpills.org/member/newsletter.cfm?n_id=565 these days, prescription drugs often become popular after drug companies inundate health professionals and the public with advertising (especially on television).
clopidogrel should not be  used if you are pregnant or are thinking of becoming pregnant.
other medications can have the opposite effect from the monkey wrench, and ramp up the warfarin-gobbling machinery into “turbo” mode.
a further analysis of the trial mentioned immediately above found that in  patients with acute coronary syndrome who were taking aspirin, adding  clopidogrel was beneficial, compared to a placebo, in reducing major  cardiovascular events.
it debuted on the u.s.  market in 1954, and last year about 24 million prescriptions were filled in  u.s. pharmacies for this important drug.
for some dietary supplements (such as ginkgo) the risk of bleeding may be increased, while other dietary supplements (such as st. john’s wort) may inhibit the blood thinning effect of warfarin and increase the risk of clotting.
call your doctor if these symptoms continue: bloated stomach or gas, cold intolerance, diarrhea, lossof appetite, nausea or vomiting,stomach cramps or pain.
because the retail cost of clopidogrel is at least 100 times greater than the cost of aspirin and is no better than aspirin in preventing a second heart attack or stroke, its use should be limited to those who cannot take aspirin.
however, in statistically significant results, there were more patients with  major bleeding episodes (defined as needing a transfusion of at least two units  of blood) in those taking clopidogrel.
results in the validation cohort, the pharmacogenetic algorithm accurately identified larger proportions of patients who required 21 mg of warfarin or less per week and of those who required 49 mg or more per week to achieve the target international normalized ratio than did the clinical algorithm (49.4% vs. 33.3%, p<0.001, among patients requiring 21 mg per week; and 24.8% vs. 7.2%, p<0.001, among those requiring 49 mg per week).
the only way a patient can be sure that the person managing their warfarin therapy will know all of his or her medications (prescription or not) is if the patient provides an up-to-date list of all of these drugs and/or dietary supplements.
the long-term use of clopidogrel in the management of patients with acute  coronary syndromes is unclear.
for some dietary supplements (such as ginkgo) the  risk of bleeding may be increased, while other dietary supplements (such  as st. john’s wort) may inhibit the blood thinning effect of  warfarin and increase the risk of clotting.
clopidogrel (family: adenosine diphosphate blockers, blood-clotting inhibitors) limited use: offers limited benefit or benefits certain people or conditions about clopidogrel clopidogrel is approved by the fda to reduce the risk of a new heart attack or stroke in patients with a history of a recent heart attack or stroke.
warfarin reduces the blood’s ability to clot (coagulate) and prevents blood clots from forming in the arteries and veins.
warfarin is one of a limited number of drugs for which the fda requires an fda-approved medication guide to be dispensed when the prescription is filled.
we also have included potentially serious interactions listed in the drug’s fda-approved product label or in published medical journal articles.
clopidogrel and the blood disorder thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura  (ttp).
do not take any other drugs, including nonprescription products (aspirin, cold remedies, antacids, laxatives), or change the dose of drugs you are taking without consulting your doctor.
the most common is when another medication throws a monkey wrench into the body’s normal machinery for getting rid of warfarin from the body (see table 2).
the following drugs may cause clinically significant interactions when used  together with warfarin.
also, an nejm study published on april 20, 2006, found that  clopidogrel, when given in combination with aspirin, was overall no more  effective than aspirin alone in reducing the rate of heart attacks, strokes or  deaths from cardiovascular causes.
researchers have struggled to show that clopidogrel is better than aspirin in preventing certain cardiovascular incidents such as heart attack and stroke, and they have been largely unsuccessful in doing this.
in this trial, clopidogrel was directly compared to aspirin.
the fda is working with the manufacturer to obtain more information on this.
fenofibrate tricor fenoprofen nalfon fluconazole diflucan fluorouracil carac, efudex, fluoroplex fluoxetine prozac, serafem flurbiprofen ansaid fluvoxamine luvox fluvastatin lescol, lescol xl gemfibrozil lopid ibuprofen motrin, advil, medipren, nuprin imatinib gleevec indomethacin indocin isoniazid inh ketoprofen orudis ketorolac toradol leflunomide arava levothyroxine levo-t, levoxyl, novothyrox, synthroid, thyro-tabs, unitroid liothyronine cytomel liotrix thyrolar
it is prescribed to people  who have a history of abnormal blood clots or who are at high risk of having  abnormal clots.
the fda is working with the manufacturer to obtain more  information on this.
side effects call your doctor immediately if you experience: abnormal bleeding; bloody,  cloudy or dark urine; difficult or painful urination or sudden decrease in the  amount of urine; dizziness or fainting; swelling of the ankles, feet or legs;  unusual weight gain; blue or purple toes; chills, fever, sore throat or unusual  tiredness; yellow eyes or skin; nausea or vomiting; diarrhea; skin rash, hives  or itching; sores or white spots in mouth or throat; sores on skin; stomach  cramps or pain; loss of appetite; nervousness; confusion; blurred vision; chest  pain; or difficulty breathing.
results published from a prospective randomized, parallel, double-blind,  placebo-controlled study of 45 patients found that acetaminophen (at a dose of  2 or 3 grams a day, administered for 10 days) increased the anticoagulant  effect of warfarin in stable patients.
the international normalized ratio (inr) is a test applied to a sample of a  patient’s blood to determine how “thin” it is.
do not take double doses.
a good  example is the commonly used antibiotic with the unwieldy name,  trimethoprim and sulfamethoxazole (bactrim, cotrim, septra); it can  dramatically increase the blood-thinning effects of warfarin and increase  bleeding risk.
combining warfarin with these painkillers increases the risk of serious stomach bleeding.
a study published in 2008, investigating the effect of the heartburn drug omeprazole (a proton pump inhibitor [ppi]) on the action of clopidogrel plus aspirin therapy, found that omeprazole significantly decreased the effect of clopidogrel, meaning that clopidogrel could then be less effective in preventing strokes and heart attacks.
published medical literature shows that clopidogrel is less effective in some patients than it is in others.
there may  be other drugs, especially those in the families of the drugs listed below,  that also will react with this drug to cause severe adverse effects.
if you plan to have any surgery, including dental, tell your doctor that  you take this drug.
for most patients who use warfarin, the desired inr range is between 2 and 3.
(the same can be said for patients not taking warfarin, but that is a different story.)
inform health care professionals that tests are available to identify genetic differences in cyp2c19 function.
acute  coronary syndrome consists of unstable chest pain (angina) and changes in the  electrocardiogram (ekg or ecg) that suggest a heart attack.
in addition, the drug is used to prevent second heart attacks in some  patients who have already had one, to prevent clots in patients with artificial  heart valves and to treat a number of other blood clotting problems.
nearly half of these hospitalizations were among adults 80 years of age or  older.
a study  published in 2008, investigating the effect of the heartburn drug omeprazole (a  proton pump inhibitor [ppi]) on the action of clopidogrel plus aspirin therapy,  found that omeprazole significantly decreased the effect of clopidogrel,  meaning that clopidogrel could then be less effective in preventing strokes and  heart attacks.
(it is not known if these 16 reports included the 11 previously mentioned.)
bleeding is the major toxicity of orgal anticoagulant drugs.
ttp is a life-threatening adverse effect that is characterized by a  breakdown of red blood cells, low levels of cells that help stop bleeding  (platelets), fever, mental changes and kidney problems.
{the numbers for aspirin are really much lower, for if there is a bleeding episode, most doctors will blame it on aspirin, even when the patient is taking several other drugs.
do not drink alcohol.
make sure to tell your doctor and pharmacist about all of the drugs and dietary supplements you are taking and whether you take any of the following:acetaminophen (alone and in combination), achromycin, alcohol (if concomitant liver disease), alurate, amiodarone, amobarbital, amoxicillin, amoxicillin and clavulanate, amoxicillin/tranexamic rinse, amoxil, antabuse, anturane, aprobarbital, arava, aspirin (alone and in combination), atromid-s, augmentin, azathioprine, azithromycin, azulfidine, bactrim, biaxin, bosentan, butabarbital, butazolidin, butisol, carbamazepine, carbatrol, cardizem, cardizem cd, celebrex, celecoxib, celexa, chibroxin, chloral hydrate, chloramphenicol, chlordiazepoxide, chloromycetin, cholestyramine, cipro, ciprofloxacin, citalopram, clarithromycin, clinoril, clofibrate, comtan, cordarone, cotrim, cotrimoxazole, darvon, darvon-n, dextropropoxyphene, dicloxacillin, diflucan, dilacor xr, dilantin, diltiazem, disopyramide, disulfiram, diulo, duraquin, dycill, dynapen, easprin, ecotrin, ees, empirin, entacapone, erythrocin, erythromycin, felbamate, felbatol, feldene, fenofibrate, flagyl, floxin, fluconazole, fluvastatin, fluvoxamine, fortovase, gatifloxacin, gemfibrozil, genuine bayer aspirin, griseofulvin, imuran, inderal, inderal la, indocin, indomethacin, inh, interferon, intron a, invirase, isoniazid, itraconazole, kaletra, lamisil, leflunomide, lescol, lescol xl, levaquin, levofloxacin, librium, locholest, lopid, luminal, luvox, mephobarbital, mesalamine, metharbital, metolazone, metronidazole, micardis, miconazole oral gel, miconazole topical gel, miconazole vaginal suppositories, monistat 1, monistat 3, monistat 7, monistat-derm, nafcillin, nalidixic acid, neggram, noctec, norfloxacin, noroxin, norpace, norvir, ofloxacin, pacerone, panmycin, pentobarbital, phenobarbital, phenylbutazone, phenytoin, piroxicam, propafenone, propoxyphene, propranolol, questran, questran light, quinaglute dura-tabs, quinidex, quinidine, requip, ribavirin, rifadin, rifampin, rimactane, ritonavir, rofecoxib, roferon-a, ropinirole, rythmol, salicylates (topical), saquinavir, secobarbital, secobarbital and amobarbital, septra, sertraline, simvastatin, solfoton, sporanox, sulfasalazine, sulfinpyrazone, sulindac, tegretol, telmisartan, tequin, terbinafine, tetracycline, tiazac, tolectin, tolmetin, tracleer, tramadol, tricor, trimethoprim and sulfamethoxazole, tylenol, ultram, vfend, vioxx, voriconazole, zaroxolyn, zithromax, zocor, zoloft when using warfarin
but due to the rapidly changing nature of medical knowledge, new warfarin drug interactions are regularly discovered.
if these  clots travel to the lungs, they can cause what is known as a pulmonary  embolism, which is frequently fatal.
unless  the blood is tested and the warfarin dose is adjusted accordingly, warfarin  will accumulate, the blood will become too thin and bleeding may result.
however, it has been noted that beyond 30 days, there  was no significant advantage to treatment with clopidogrel over a placebo in  regard to cardiovascular death or nonfatal heart attack.
the drug is commonly used in patients with a  tendency to form blood clots in their legs (deep venous thrombosis).
the only way a patient can be sure that the person managing their  warfarin therapy will know all of his or her medications (prescription or not)  is if the patient provides an up-to-date list of all of these drugs and/or  dietary supplements.
it should be noted that many adverse-reaction deaths occur at home, such as those seen with darvon, wherein patients, especially older adults, were found dead from the drug’s heart-toxic effects.
tylenol alcohol (large amounts) amiodarone cordarone, pacerone aspirin easprin, ecotrin, empirin, genuine bayer
note that the drugs listed in tables 1, 2 and 3  represent most of the established and important drug interactions  involving warfarin.
an fda advisory committee has unanimously recommended that all drugs be accompanied by such medication guides, but at present, less than 5 percent of drugs are.
keep in mind that serious bleeding is uncommon, and as long as clotting has not been slowed too much, the benefit of warfarin for well-established indications often outweighs the risks.
this means that warfarin is being destroyed too fast so warfarin levels are reduced, the patient’s inr goes below the desired range, and the patient is more at risk of having a serious blood clot.