treatment depends on the duration and cause of the fever, as well as your other symptoms.
sometimes doctors advise you to use both types of medicine.
- in children under age 3 months, call your doctor first before giving medicines.
some common infections are: infections such as pneumonia , bone infections (osteomyelitis ),  appendicitis , tuberculosis , skin infections or cellulitis , and meningitis respiratory infections such as colds or flu -like illnesses, sore throats , ear infections , sinus infections , infectious mononucleosis , and bronchitis urinary tract infections viral gastroenteritis and bacterial gastroenteritis children may have a low-grade fever for 1 or 2 days after some immunizations  .
some examples are: - arthritis or connective tissue illnesses such as rheumatoid arthritis and systemic lupus erythematosus - ulcerative colitis and crohn's disease - vasculitis or periarteritis nodosa
call 911 for all medical emergencies.
any duplication  or distribution of the information contained herein is strictly prohibited.
the room should be comfortable, not  too hot or cool.
do not give too much fruit or apple juice and avoid sports drinks in  younger children.
the following tests may be performed: blood studies, such as a cbc or blood differential urinalysis prevention: references: mick nw.
a licensed medical professional should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and all medical conditions.
rosen's emergency medicine:  concepts and clinical practice.
philadelphia, pa:  saunders elsevier; 2007: chap 302.
3 -12 months old and has a fever of 102.2 °f (39 °c) or higher -
take acetaminophen every 4 - 6 hours.
other factors that may affect body temperature are: - in the second part of a woman's menstrual cycle, her temperature may go up by 1 degree or more.
- aspirin is very effective for treating fever in adults.
other possible causes of fever include: blood clots or thrombophlebitis medications, such as some antibiotics, antihistamines, and seizure  medicines home care: a simple cold or other viral infection can sometimes cause a high fever  (102 - 104 °f, or 38.9 - 40 °c).
this does not usually mean you or your  child have a serious problem.
know how much you or your child weighs, and then always check the  instructions on the package.
untreated fevers caused by infection will seldom go over 105 °f unless the child is overdressed or trapped in a hot place.
if the fever is mild and you have no other problems, you do not need treatment.
- do not give too much fruit or apple juice and avoid sports drinks in younger children.
philadelphia, pa: mosby  elsevier;2009:chap 165.
however, most febrile seizures are over quickly, do not mean your child has epilepsy, and do not cause any permanent harm.. unexplained fevers that continue for days or weeks are called fevers of undetermined origin (fuo).
call your health care provider if: call a doctor right away if your child: - is younger than 3 months old and has a rectal temperature of 100.4 °f (38 °c) or higher - is
here are some guidelines for taking medicine to lower a fever: - acetaminophen (tylenol) and ibuprofen (advil, motrin) help reduce fever in children and adults.
site map    |    gbmc mobile     |    legal & privacy disclaimer     |    greater baltimore medical associates     |    gbmc foundation     |    gilchrist hospice care     |    physician login
site map | gbmc mobile | legal & privacy disclaimer | greater baltimore medical associates | gbmc foundation | gilchrist hospice care | physician login
although a fever signals that a battle might be going on in the body, the fever is fightingfor the person, not against.
other factors that may affect body temperature are: in the second part of a woman's menstrual cycle, her temperature may go up  by 1 degree or more.
drink fluids and rest.
has other symptoms that suggest an illness may need to be treated, such as a sore throat, earache, or cough - has been having fevers come and go for up to a week or more, even if they are not very high - has a serious medical illness, such as a heart problem, sickle cell anemia, diabetes, or cystic fibrosis - recently had an immunization - has a new rash or bruises appear - has pain with urination - has trouble with the immune system (chronic steroid therapy, after a bone marrow or organ transplant, spleen was removed, is hiv-positive, or is being treated for cancer) - has recently traveled to a third world country call 911 if you or your child has a fever and: - is crying and cannot be calmed down (children)
in children under age 3 months, call your doctor first before giving  medicines.
this is especially true of  hodgkin's disease , non-hodgkin's lymphoma , and leukemia .
some serious infections may cause no fever or  even a very low body temperature, especially in infants.
however, most febrile seizures  are over quickly, do not mean your child has epilepsy, and do not cause any  permanent harm.. unexplained fevers that continue for days or weeks are called fevers of  undetermined origin (fuo).
teething may cause a slight increase in a child's temperature, but not  higher than 100 °f. autoimmune or inflammatory disorders may also cause fevers.
aspirin is very effective for treating fever in adults.
benefits employee orientation tuition assistance nursing careers volunteers community find a doctor calendar of events community outreach gbmc publications e-newsletter volunteers gbmc foundation health library find a doctor h1n1 update consumer library health encyclopedia symptom checker daily newsfeed video library nursing nursing at gbmc ed/critical care maternal newborn health peri operative medical/surgical nursing excellence nursing careers student nursing physician portal physician login clinical education cpoe training download citrix client lab test directory gbha managed care medical reconciliation physician relations home tongue problems symptoms & treatment fainting symptoms & treatment allergies symptoms & treatment fever symptoms & treatment reference index - symptoms back to health library thermometer temperature temperature measurement feverdefinition: fever is the temporary increase in the body's temperature in response to some disease or illness.
some serious infections may cause no fever or even a very low body temperature, especially in infants.
it works by turning down the brain's thermostat.
- a lukewarm bath or sponge bath may help cool someone with a fever.
review date: 1/29/2010 reviewed by: neil k. kaneshiro, md, mha, clinical assistant professor of pediatrics, university of washington school of medicine.
references: mick nw.
many infants and children develop high fevers with minor viral  illnesses.
do not give  aspirin to a child unless your child's doctor tells you to.
- physical activity, strong emotion, eating, heavy clothing, medications, high room temperature, and high humidity can all increase your body temperature.
untreated fevers caused by infection will seldom go  over 105 °f unless the child is overdressed or trapped in a hot place.
most  bacteria and viruses that cause infections in people thrive best at 98.6  °f.
- know how much you or your child weighs, and then always check the instructions on the package.
greater baltimore medical center | 6701 north charles street | baltimore, md 21204 | (443) 849-2000 | tty (800) 735-2258 © 2012 gbmc.
is under age 2 and has a fever that lasts longer than 24 - 48 hours - is older and has a fever for longer than 48 - 72 hours - has a fever over 105 °f (40.5 °c), unless it comes down readily with treatment and the person is comfortable -
fever is an important part of the body's defense against infection.
it is usually highest in the evening.
the illness is probably not serious if your child: - is still interested in playing - is eating and drinking well - is alert and smiling at you -
goldman l, ausiello d, eds.
brain damage from a fever generally will not occur unless the fever is over  107.6 °f (42 °c).
the room should be comfortable, not too hot or cool.
when trying to lower a fever: do not bundle up someone who has the chills.
remove excess clothing or blankets.
greater baltimore medical center | 6701 north charles  street | baltimore, md 21204 | (443) 849-2000 | tty (800) 735-2258 ©  2012 gbmc.
brain damage from a fever generally will not occur unless the fever is over 107.6 °f (42 °c).
see also: - heat emergencies - temperature measurement alternative names: elevated temperature; hyperthermia; pyrexia considerations: normal body temperature may change during any given day.
teething may cause a slight increase in a child's temperature, but not higher than 100 °f. autoimmune or inflammatory disorders may also cause fevers.
the illness is probably not serious if your child: is still interested in playing is eating and drinking well is alert and smiling at you
have recently traveled to a third world country what to expect at your health care provider's office: your doctor will perform a physical examination, which may include a  detailed examination of the skin, eyes, ears, nose, throat, neck, chest, and  abdomen to look for the cause of the fever.
it is usually  highest in the evening.
treatment depends on the duration and cause of the fever, as well as your  other symptoms.
this is especially true of hodgkin's disease , non-hodgkin's lymphoma , and leukemia .
- remove excess clothing or blankets.
cecil medicine, 23rd ed.
eating and drinking with a fever: - everyone, especially children, should drink plenty of fluids.
elevated temperature; hyperthermia; pyrexia considerations: normal body temperature may change during any given day.
has a serious medical illness, such as a heart problem, sickle cell  anemia, diabetes, or cystic fibrosis recently had an immunization
legget j. approach to fever or suspected infection in the normal host.
this does not usually mean you or your child have a serious problem.
here are some guidelines for taking medicine to lower a fever: acetaminophen (tylenol) and ibuprofen (advil, motrin) help reduce fever in  children and adults.
these cool the skin, but  often make the situation worse by causing shivering, which raises the core body  temperature.
common causes: almost any infection can cause a fever.
this is especially effective after medication is given -- otherwise the temperature might bounce right back up.
try one layer of lightweight clothing, and one lightweight  blanket for sleep.
many infants and children develop high fevers with minor viral illnesses.
has a stiff neck - refuses to move an arm or leg (children) - has a seizure call your doctor right away if you are an adult and you: - have a fever over 105 °f (40.5 °c), unless it comes down readily with treatment and you are comfortable - have a fever that stays at or keeps rising above 103 °f - have a fever for longer than 48 - 72 hours - have had fevers come and go for up to a week or more, even if they are not very high - have a serious medical illness, such as a heart problem, sickle cell anemia, diabetes, cystic fibrosis, copd, or other chronic lung problems - have a new rash or bruises appear - have pain with urination - have trouble with your immune system (chronic steroid therapy, after a bone marrow or organ transplant, had spleen removed, hiv-positive, were being treated for cancer)
if the fever is mild and you have no other problems, you do not need  treatment.
© 1997- a.d.a.m., inc.
- cannot be awakened easily or at all - seems confused - cannot walk - has difficulty breathing, even after their nose is cleared - has blue lips, tongue, or nails - has a very bad headache -
remember, the goal is  to lower, not eliminate, the fever.
call your health care provider if: call a doctor right away if your child: is younger than 3 months old and has a rectal temperature of 100.4 °f  (38 °c) or higher is 3 -12 months old and has a fever of 102.2 °f (39 °c) or higher is under age 2 and has a fever that lasts longer than 24 - 48 hours is older and has a fever for longer than 48 - 72 hours has a fever over 105 °f (40.5 °c), unless it comes down readily  with treatment and the person is comfortable has other symptoms that suggest an illness may need to be treated, such as  a sore throat, earache, or cough has been having fevers come and go for up to a week or more, even if they  are not very high
these cool the skin, but often make the situation worse by causing shivering, which raises the core body temperature.
eating and drinking with a fever: everyone, especially children, should drink plenty of fluids.
this is  especially effective after medication is given -- otherwise the temperature  might bounce right back up.
rosen's emergency medicine: concepts and clinical practice.
- take ibuprofen every 6 - 8 hours.
most bacteria and viruses that cause infections in people thrive best at 98.6 °f.
although eating foods with a fever is fine, do not force foods.
remember, the goal is to lower, not eliminate, the fever.
has a seizure call your doctor right away if you are an adult and you: have a fever over 105 °f (40.5 °c), unless it comes down readily  with treatment and you are comfortable have a fever that stays at or keeps rising above 103 °f have a fever for longer than 48 - 72 hours have had fevers come and go for up to a week or more, even if they are not  very high have a serious medical illness, such as a heart problem, sickle cell  anemia, diabetes, cystic fibrosis, copd, or other chronic lung problems have a new rash or bruises appear have pain with urination have trouble with your immune system (chronic steroid therapy, after a  bone marrow or organ transplant, had spleen removed, hiv-positive, were being  treated for cancer)
has recently traveled to a third world country call 911 if you or your child has a fever and: is crying and cannot be calmed down (children)
take ibuprofen every 6 - 8 hours.
a  licensed medical professional should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment  of any and all medical conditions.
some examples  are: arthritis or connective tissue illnesses such as rheumatoid arthritis and  systemic lupus erythematosus ulcerative colitis and crohn's disease vasculitis or periarteritis nodosa
- take acetaminophen every 4 - 6 hours.
water, popsicles, soup, and gelatin are all good choices.
review date:  1/29/2010 reviewed by: neil k. kaneshiro, md, mha, clinical assistant  professor of pediatrics, university of washington school of medicine.
do not use ibuprofen in children younger than 6 months old.
although a fever signals that a battle might be going on in the  body, the fever is fightingfor the person, not against.
the information provided herein should not be used during any medical emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition.
links to other sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements of those other sites.
also  reviewed by david zieve, md, mha, medical director, a.d.a.m., inc.
physical activity, strong emotion, eating, heavy clothing, medications,  high room temperature, and high humidity can all increase your body temperature.
some common infections are: - infections such as pneumonia , bone infections (osteomyelitis ), appendicitis , tuberculosis , skin infections or cellulitis , and meningitis - respiratory infections such as colds or flu -like illnesses, sore throats , ear infections , sinus infections , infectious mononucleosis , and bronchitis - urinary tract infections - viral gastroenteritis and bacterial gastroenteritis children may have a low-grade fever for 1 or 2 days after some immunizations .
links  to other sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute  endorsements of those other sites.
- have recently traveled to a third world country what to expect at your health care provider's office: your doctor will perform a physical examination, which may include a detailed examination of the skin, eyes, ears, nose, throat, neck, chest, and abdomen to look for the cause of the fever.
philadelphia, pa: mosby elsevier;2009:chap 165.
do not use cold baths, ice, or alcohol rubs.
philadelphia, pa: saunders elsevier; 2007: chap 302.
a child has a fever when the temperature is at or above one of these levels: - 100.4 °f (38 °c) measured in the bottom (rectally) - 99.5 °f(37.5 °c) measured in the mouth (orally) - 99 °f (37.2 °c) measured under the arm (axillary) an adult probably has a fever when the temperature is above 99 - 99.5 °f (37.2 - 37.5 °c), depending on the time of day.
it works by turning down the brain's  thermostat.
the first symptom of a cancer may be a fever.
other possible causes of fever include: - blood clots or thrombophlebitis - medications, such as some antibiotics, antihistamines, and seizure medicines home care: a simple cold or other viral infection can sometimes cause a high fever (102 - 104 °f, or 38.9 - 40 °c).
this website is for informational purposes only and not intended as medical advice or a substitute for a consultation with a professional healthcare provider.
cannot be awakened easily or at all seems confused has difficulty breathing, even after their nose is cleared has blue lips, tongue, or nails has a very bad headache has a stiff neck refuses to move an arm or leg (children)
a lukewarm bath or sponge bath may help cool someone with a fever.
when trying to lower a fever: - do not bundle up someone who has the chills.
do not use ibuprofen in children younger  than 6 months old.
has a normal skin color looks well when their temperature comes down take steps to lower a fever if you or your child is uncomfortable,  vomiting, dried out (dehydrated), or not sleeping well.
also reviewed by david zieve, md, mha, medical director, a.d.a.m., inc.
has a new rash or bruises appear has pain with
water,  popsicles, soup, and gelatin are all good choices.
greater baltimore medical center (gbmc) - baltimore, maryland contact us | about gbmc | gbmc online bill pay | map & directions | donate patients & visitors find a doctor your visit to gbmc privacy & rights financial support spiritual support the gift shop ask an expert the boutique medical records pharmacy ethics consultation services find a doctor full list of services clinical research at gbmc women's services cancer services surgical services medical services gbma physician practices additional services jobs & careers career news career search why work at gbmc?
the following tests may be performed: - blood studies, such as a cbc or blood differential - urinalysis - x-ray of the chest prevention:
if the room is hot or stuffy, a fan may help.
this website is for informational purposes only and not intended as  medical advice or a substitute for a consultation with a professional  healthcare provider.
febrile seizures do occur in some children.
- do not use cold baths, ice, or alcohol rubs.
any duplication or distribution of the information contained herein is strictly prohibited.
urination has trouble with the immune system (chronic steroid therapy, after a bone  marrow or organ transplant, spleen was removed, is hiv-positive, or is being  treated for cancer)
has a normal skin color - looks well when their temperature comes down take steps to lower a fever if you or your child is uncomfortable, vomiting, dried out (dehydrated), or not sleeping well.
the information provided herein should not be used during any medical  emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition.
try one layer of lightweight clothing, and one lightweight blanket for sleep.
do not give aspirin to a child unless your child's doctor tells you to.