when an otherwise healthy person has a fever  because of an illness, it is extremely unlikely to cause brain damage.
seek medical attention, even if the person is awake.
a fever is just a symptom of illness, not an illness itself.
answer: most fevers are caused by viral or bacterial infections, but they can also be caused by toxins, cancers or autoimmune diseases.
3 to 6 months: call a doctor for any rectal temp over 101.
hyperthermia can be caused by overexposure to high temperatures and under consumption of water.
place ice packs in the armpits, behind the neck and in the groin area.
the only time the body will sustain damage due to a high temperature is  when the body temperature goes over 107.6 degrees.
- do not give medications, they may not help and could even be harmful.
if an adult or child has a fever but feels okay, and is still able to perform daily activities or play, there is no reason to treat the fever.
we comply with the honcode standard for trustworthy health information: verify here.
the time to be concerned about a high fever is when it is not caused by an  illness, but because of overheating.
it has long been believed that high fevers can cause brain damage, especially if left untreated.
however, if the person is not feeling well enough to get out of bed or play, then it is fine to treat the fever with medication.
the most common and effective medications to treat fevers are: tylenol (acetaminophen)
this is actually heat stroke  (hyperthermia), which is completely different than a fever.
advil or motrin (ibuprofen) ibuprofen is approved for use in children  as young as 6 months.
brain damage question: do fevers cause brain  damage?
the bottom line fevers can be scary, especially for parents who just want their children to feel better.
medline plus national  institutes of health.
do not give medications, they may not help and could even be harmful.
if a bath makes your child uncomfortable or unhappy, it is unnecessary.
- privacy policy - your ad choices ©2012 about.com.
if the high temperature is caused by overheating, heat exhaustion or heat  stroke, treatment is very different.
some situations that warrant calling a doctor include: a child under age 2 who has a fever for over 24 to 48 hours a fever that lasts longer than 48 to 72 hours in older children and adults a fever over 105 degrees, which could indicate a more serious illness presence of other concerning symptoms such as a stiff neck, confusion,  difficulty breathing, or a first-time seizure presence of other symptoms that make you think an illness may need to be  treated, such as a sore throat, earache or cough you think you may have incorrectly dosed medication, or you aren’t  sure what dose to give what to do for fevers caused by illness generally, treatment is going to be based on how the person is feeling and  acting.
the purpose of treating a fever is just to make the person more comfortable, not to eliminate the fever completely.
it has long been believed that high fevers can cause brain damage,  especially if left untreated.
illnesses that cause fevers - flu - strep throat - pneumonia caring for sick kids related articles - when they have the flu -
these can all raise the core temperature of the body, making the  person feel worse, not better.
medline plus national institutes of health.
some situations that warrant calling a doctor include: - a child under age 2 who has a fever for over 24 to 48 hours - a fever that lasts longer than 48 to 72 hours in older children and adults - a fever over 105 degrees, which could indicate a more serious illness - presence of other concerning symptoms such as a stiff neck, confusion, difficulty breathing, or a first-time seizure - presence of other symptoms that make you think an illness may need to be treated, such as a sore throat, earache or cough - you think you may have incorrectly dosed medication, or you aren’t sure what dose to give what to do for fevers caused by illness generally, treatment is going to be based on how the person is feeling and acting.
when to be concerned even if you or your child have not been exposed to high temperatures, and  hyperthermia is not a concern, there are several other factors that play into  deciding what to do about a fever.
even febrile seizures, which occur in children, do not cause any permanent damage.
so how much truth is there to this claim?
- aspirin aspirin should never be given to children under 18 years of age, unless specifically recommended by a doctor, because of the risk of a rare but possibly fatal illness calledreye’s
it  really depends on the situation.
the fever is actually  your body’s natural way of fighting off the illness.
the purpose of  treating a fever is just to make the person more comfortable, not to eliminate  the fever completely.
tylenol is approved for use in children as  young as 2 months old, but should never be given to a child under 3 months  without first speaking to a doctor.
do not bundle someone who has the chills and do not use cold baths or  alcohol rubs.
if the high temperature is caused by overheating, heat exhaustion or heat stroke, treatment is very different.
a lukewarm bath may be helpful, but should only be tried after medication has been given to prevent the temperature from rapidly rising after getting out of the water.
in these cases, the body may not be able to regulate its temperature, and medications will not bring the temperature down.
if a bath makes your child uncomfortable or unhappy, it is  unnecessary.
- sponge the person with cool water.
medical encyclopedia 20 feb 08.
fevers are actually helpful when the body has an infection because they  make it more difficult for germs to live and multiply.
the bottom line fevers can be scary, especially for parents who just  want their children to feel better.
a part of the new york times company.
symptoms - weather and illness - cough medications by category - fevers - febrile seizures - brain damage - common cold - flu - prevention - check your symptoms - see a healthcare provider - medication and tools - vaccines - pneumonia - bronchitis - other common illnesses - when your child is sick - glossary cold & flu - about.com - health - cold & flu - other common illnesses
the most common and effective medications to treat fevers are: - tylenol (acetaminophen)
the fever is actually your body’s natural way of fighting off the illness.
these can all raise the core temperature of the body, making the person feel worse, not better.
in young children, it is broken down by age: - under 3 months: call a doctor for any rectal temperature over 100.2 degrees.
in  these cases, the body may not be able to regulate its temperature, and  medications will not bring the temperature down.
however, if the person is not feeling well enough to get out of bed or play,  then it is fine to treat the fever with medication.
- remove the person from the warm area.
if you are concerned that someone is overheated and they are  unconscious, call 911 immediately.
if a child has a fever and does not feel better about an hour after taking  acetaminophen or ibuprofen (regardless of whether or not the temperature goes  down), call his healthcare provider.
treating hyperthermia
the time to be concerned about a high fever is when it is not caused by an illness, but because of overheating.
some tips: keep the person dressed lightly encourage her to stay well hydrated –- drinking plenty of fluids can  naturally cool the body and help prevent dehydration
a fever is just a symptom  of illness, not an illness itself.
give cool fluids if the person is alert (never try to hydrate a person who  is unconscious).
when to be concerned even if you or your child have not been exposed to high temperatures, and hyperthermia is not a concern, there are several other factors that play into deciding what to do about a fever.
in children over 12 months and adults, there are other things to consider.
however, not every case of fever warrants  worry.
unless the fever is caused  by an outside source (hyperthermia) or there is already a neurological problem,  there is almost no chance that the temperature will go this high.
aspirin aspirin should never be given to children under 18 years of  age, unless specifically recommended by a doctor, because of the risk of a rare  but possibly fatal illness calledreye’s syndrome.
- don't panic - your child has fever - comforting a fever - childhood illnesses kristina duda, r.n. cold & flu guide - sign up for my newsletter related searches cause brain damage febrile seizures rectal temp high fever heat stroke autoimmune diseases explore cold & flu must reads most popular - what is the cold/flu? - symptoms of the cold/flu - diagnosing the cold/flu - treating the cold/flu - answers to your flu shot questions see more about: - viral infection - colds and pregnancy - evaluate cough
- advil or motrin (ibuprofen) ibuprofen is approved for use in children as young as 6 months.
remove the person from the warm area.
- give cool fluids if the person is alert (never try to hydrate a person who is unconscious).
fevers are actually helpful when the body has an infection because they make it more difficult for germs to live and multiply.
- seek medical attention, even if the person is awake.
brain and organ damage usually occur because of hyperthermia.
when an otherwise healthy person has a fever because of an illness, it is extremely unlikely to cause brain damage.
- place ice packs in the armpits, behind the neck and in the groin area.
if an adult or child has a fever but feels okay, and is still able to  perform daily activities or play, there is no reason to treat the fever.
- fevers and brain damage - do fevers cause brain damage also from about.com: - most popular - latest articles - rss - calorie count - nutrition database - advertise on about.com - our story - news & events - work at about - sitemap - all topics - reprints - help - write for about - user agreement - ethics policy - patent info.
unless the fever is caused by an outside source (hyperthermia) or there is already a neurological problem, there is almost no chance that the temperature will go this high.
- 3 to 6 months: call a doctor for any rectal temp over 101.
illnesses that cause fevers
this is actually heat stroke (hyperthermia), which is completely different than a fever.
answer: most fevers are caused by viral or bacterial infections, but they can also  be caused by toxins, cancers or autoimmune diseases.
6 to 12 months: call a doctor for any rectal temp over 103.
a lukewarm bath may be helpful, but should only be tried after medication  has been given to prevent the temperature from rapidly rising after getting out  of the water.
sign up - cold / flu - symptoms/diagnosis - treatment - flu shot facts discuss in my forum do fevers cause brain damage?
- 6 to 12 months: call a doctor for any rectal temp over 103.
- about.com - health - cold & flu cold & flu search free cold & flu newsletter!
hyperthermia can be  caused by overexposure to high temperatures and under consumption of water.
brain and organ damage usually  occur because of hyperthermia.
it really depends on the situation.
when they have a cold - see if they are having trouble breathing - what is a fever? - childhood illnesses - common reactions - vaccines - what do i do about my child's fever?
some tips: - keep the person dressed lightly - encourage her to stay well hydrated –- drinking plenty of fluids can naturally cool the body and help prevent dehydration - do not bundle someone who has the chills and do not use cold baths or alcohol rubs.
however, not every case of fever warrants worry.
if a child has a fever and does not feel better about an hour after taking acetaminophen or ibuprofen (regardless of whether or not the temperature goes down), call his healthcare provider.
in young children, it is broken down by age: under 3 months: call a doctor for any rectal temperature over 100.2  degrees.
there are also other things you can do to help a person cope with a fever.
the only time the body will sustain damage due to a high temperature is when the body temperature goes over 107.6 degrees.
tylenol is approved for use in children as young as 2 months old, but should never be given to a child under 3 months without first speaking to a doctor.
if you are concerned that someone is overheated and they are unconscious, call 911 immediately.
by kristina duda, r.n., about.com guide updated march 18, 2008 about.com health's disease and condition content is reviewed by our medical review board see more about: - fevers - febrile seizures - brain damage question: do fevers cause brain damage?
sponge the person with cool water.