healthwise  disclaims any warranty or liability for your use of this information.
this includes vitamins, minerals, herbal products, and drugs prescribed by other doctors.
stop using this medication and call your doctor at once if you have any symptoms of bleeding in your stomach or intestines.
symptoms include black, bloody, or tarry stools, and coughing up blood or vomit that looks like coffee grounds.
this list is not complete and there may be other drugs that can interact with aspirin.
what happens if i overdose?
you may report side effects to  fda at 1-800-fda-1088.
organizational structure - magnet force 3: management style - magnet force 4: personnel policies and programs - magnet force 5: professional models of care - magnet force 6: quality of care - magnet force 7: quality improvement - magnet force 8: consultation and resources - magnet force 9: autonomy - magnet force 10: community and the healthcare organization - magnet force 11: nurses as teachers - magnet force 12: image of nursing - magnet force 13: interdisciplinary relationships - magnet force 14: professional development - nursing photo gallery - testimonials from our nurses - awards and recognition - board-certified nurses - careers in nursing - education and resources - 2011 summer nursing camp - volunteering - about volunteering at swedish covenant hospital - how to become a volunteer - volunteer requirements - volunteer opportunities - volunteer benefits - volunteer guidelines and responsibilities - volunteer testimonials - volunteer news secondary menu - about us - your visit to sch - for physicians - media center - health library - my health space you are here:
where can i get more information?
multum's drug information is an informational resource designed to assist licensed healthcare practitioners in caring for their patients and/or to serve consumers viewing this service as a supplement to, and not a substitute for, the expertise, skill, knowledge and judgment of healthcare practitioners.
ibuprofen may make  aspirin less effective in protecting your heart and blood vessels.
alcohol may increase your risk of stomach bleeding.
what should i discuss with my healthcare provider before taking aspirin?
less serious side effects may include: - upset stomach, heartburn; - drowsiness; or - headache.
choosing your child's physician - why are "well-child" exams important?
- asthma or seasonal allergies; - stomach ulcers; - liver disease; - kidney disease; - a bleeding or blood clotting disorder; - heart disease, high blood pressure, or congestive heart failure; - gout; or - nasal polyps.
breaking this pill would cause too much of the drug to be released at one time.
allow it  to dissolve in your mouth without chewing.
call your  doctor for medical advice about side effects.
the absence of a warning for a given drug  or drug combination in no way should be construed to indicate that the drug or  drug combination is safe, effective or appropriate for any given patient.
mg ec-tim round, red, imprinted with tcl 002 slide 3 of 8 aspirin 81
this medication  may be harmful to an unborn baby's heart, and may also reduce birth weight or  have other dangerous effects.
a bleeding or blood clotting disorder; heart disease, high blood pressure, or congestive heart failure; gout; or nasal polyps.
multum does not assume any responsibility for any aspect of healthcare  administered with the aid of information multum provides.
open the package and peel the back cover from the tablet.
you may report side effects to fda at 1-800-fda-1088.
aspirin can cause a serious and sometimes fatal condition called reye's syndrome in children.
do not use the medication in larger or smaller amounts, or use it for longer than recommended.
keep the orally disintegrating tablet in its package until you are ready to take the medicine.
aspirin should not be given to a child or teenager who has a fever, especially if the child also has flu symptoms or chicken pox.
overdose symptoms may include ringing in your ears, headache, nausea,  vomiting, dizziness, confusion, hallucinations, rapid breathing, fever, seizure  (convulsions), or coma.
multum does not assume any responsibility for any aspect of healthcare administered with the aid of information multum provides.
do not use the medication in larger or smaller  amounts, or use it for longer than recommended.
mg ec-tc round, yellow, imprinted with logo heart slide 4 of 8 aspirin 975 mg ec-tim oblong, white, imprinted with tcl 224 slide 5 of 8 aspirin ec 325 mg-ger round, orange, imprinted with t slide 6 of 8 ecotrin 325 mg round, orange, imprinted with ecotrin reg slide 7 of 8 zorprin 800 mg-par oblong, white, imprinted with 57 slide 8 of 8 what is the most important information i should know about aspirin?
if you must use both medications, take  the ibuprofen at least 8 hours before or 30 minutes after you take the aspirin  (non-enteric coated form).
do not use this medication if you are allergic to aspirin, or if you have: - a recent history of stomach or intestinal bleeding; - a bleeding disorder such as hemophilia; or - an allergy to an nsaid (non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug) such as advil, motrin, aleve, orudis, indocin, lodine, voltaren, toradol, mobic, relafen, feldene, and others.
aspirin is sometimes used to treat or prevent heart attacks, strokes, and chest pain (angina).aspirin should be used for cardiovascular conditions only under the supervision of a doctor.
enteric-coated aspirin is specially formulated to be gentle on your stomach, but you may take it with food or milk if desired.
it will begin to  dissolve right away, without water.
do not swallow the tablet whole.
avoid drinking alcohol while  you are taking aspirin.
the extended-release tablet is specially made to release medicine slowly in the  body.
avoid taking an nsaid (non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug) while you are  taking aspirin.
this list is not complete and there may be other drugs that can interact  with aspirin.
revision date: 08/24/2009.
do not take this medication if you smell a strong vinegar odor  in the aspirin bottle.
if you have questions about the drugs you are taking, check with your  doctor, nurse or pharmacist.
if you must use both medications, take the ibuprofen at least 8 hours before or 30 minutes after you take the aspirin (non-enteric coated form).
it will begin to dissolve right away, without water.
use this medication exactly as directed on the label, or as it has been  prescribed by your doctor.
your use of the content provided in this service indicates that  you have read, understood and agree to the end-user license agreement, which  can be accessed byclicking on this link.
aspirin may also be used for other purposes not listed in this medication guide.
multum information has been compiled for use by healthcare  practitioners and consumers in the united states and therefore multum does not  warrant that uses outside of the united states are appropriate, unless  specifically indicated otherwise.
do not start using a new medication without  telling your doctor.
top of page this information does not replace the advice of a doctor.
store  aspirin at room temperature away from moisture and heat.
definitions - wound care frequently asked questions - location and contact - events & classes - careers - employment opportunities - physician opportunities - benefits - health - time - knowledge - spirit - money - lifeworks program - residency programs - residency opportunities - family medicine residency program - osteopathic internal medicine residency program - traditional rotating internship - salary and benefits - requirements and contracts - residency photo gallery - medical students - testimonials from our residents - meet our current residents - nursing - journey to magnet excellence - magnet force 1: quality of nursing leadership - magnet force 2:
do not take this medication if you smell a strong vinegar odor in the aspirin bottle.
revision date:  08/24/2009.
swedish covenant hospital
ibuprofen can make aspirin less effective in protecting your heart and blood vessels.
tell your doctor if you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant while you are taking aspirin.
the extended-release tablet is specially made to release medicine slowly in the body.
get emergency medical  help if you have any of thesesigns of an allergic reaction: hives;  difficulty breathing; swelling of your face, lips, tongue, or throat.
if you are using the medication regularly, take the missed dose as soon as you  remember.
stop using this medication and call your doctor at once if you have any of  these serious side effects: black, bloody, or tarry stools; coughing up blood or vomit that looks like coffee grounds; severe nausea, vomiting, or stomach pain; fever lasting longer than 3 days; swelling, or pain lasting longer than 10 days; or hearing problems, ringing in your ears.
aspirin can pass into  breast milk and may harm a nursing baby.
avoid taking ibuprofen (advil, motrin) if you are taking aspirin to prevent stroke or heart attack.
avoid drinking alcohol while you are taking aspirin.
the information contained herein is not intended to cover all possible uses, directions, precautions, warnings, drug interactions, allergic reactions, or adverse effects.
if you are taking aspirin to prevent heart attack  or stroke, avoid also taking ibuprofen (advil, motrin).
you may need to stop using the medicine for a short time.
your use  of this information means that you agree to theterms of use.
what should i avoid while taking aspirin?
as pir in brand: arthritis pain, aspergum cherry, aspergum orginal, aspir 81, aspir-low, aspirin lite coat, aspirin litecoat, aspirin low dose, aspirin low strength, bayer aspirin, bayer aspirin regimen, bayer aspirin sugar free, bayer aspirin with calcium, bayer childrens aspirin, bayer low strength, bayer plus, buffered aspirin, bufferin, bufferin arthritis strength, bufferin extra strength, easprin, ecotrin, ecotrin adult low strength, ecotrin maximum strength, fasprin, genacote, halfprin, litecoat aspirin, norwich aspirin, st. joseph aspirin, st. joseph aspirin adult chewable, st. joseph aspirin adult ec, stanback analgesic, tri-buffered aspirin, ysp aspirin, zorprin aspirin 325
tell your doctor if you are taking an antidepressant such as citalopram  (celexa), duloxetine (cymbalta), escitalopram (lexapro), fluoxetine (prozac,  sarafem, symbyax), fluvoxamine (luvox), paroxetine (paxil), sertraline  (zoloft), or venlafaxine (effexor).
if you take certain products together you may accidentally take too much aspirin.
taking any of these drugs with aspirin may  cause you to bruise or bleed easily.
if you have questions about the drugs you are taking, check with your doctor, nurse or pharmacist.
seek emergency medical attention if you think you have used too much of this medicine.
do not crush, chew, break, or open anenteric-coated or extended-release pill.
home » health library health library aspirin (oral) aspirin (oral)
if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and wait until your next regularly scheduled dose.
taking aspirin with food or milk can lessen  stomach upset.
what happens if i miss a dose?
avoid taking an nsaid (non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug) while you are taking aspirin.
the enteric-coated pill has a special  coating to protect your stomach.
swallow the pill whole.
aspirin is in a group of drugs called salicylates (sa-lis-il-ates).
if you need to have any type of surgery, tell the surgeon ahead of time that you are taking aspirin.
resources - childbirth - childbirth services - family birthing center - midwifery services - technology - resources and faq’s - childbirth classes - preregistration information - dermatology - emergency services - services - resources and faqs - family health - family health services - family practice center - pediatric services - affordable pre-natal and pediatric services - emergency situations - diabetes community center - medical nutrition counseling - adolescent programs - resources and faqs
if you need to have any type of surgery, tell the surgeon ahead of time  that you are taking aspirin.
if you take  certain products together you may accidentally take too much aspirin.
drug information contained herein may be time  sensitive.
healthwise disclaims any warranty or liability for your use of this information.
the absence of a warning for a given drug or drug combination in no way should be construed to indicate that the drug or drug combination is safe, effective or appropriate for any given patient.
what other drugs will affect aspirin?
do not use any other over-the-counter medication without first asking your doctor or pharmacist.
aspirin can pass into breast milk and may harm a nursing baby.
nsaids include ibuprofen (motrin, advil), diclofenac (voltaren), diflunisal (dolobid), etodolac (lodine), flurbiprofen (ansaid), indomethacin (indocin), ketoprofen (orudis), ketorolac (toradol), mefenamic acid (ponstel), meloxicam (mobic), nabumetone (relafen), naproxen (aleve, naprosyn), piroxicam (feldene), and others.
multum's drug information does not endorse  drugs, diagnose patients or recommend therapy.
do not start using a new medication without telling your doctor.
allow it to dissolve in your mouth without chewing.
tell your doctor about all the prescription and over-the-counter medications you use.
how should i take aspirin?
breaking the pill could damage this coating.
multum's drug information does not endorse drugs, diagnose patients or recommend therapy.
the medicine may no longer be effective.
if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and wait  until your next regularly scheduled dose.
if you are using the medication regularly, take the missed dose as soon as you remember.
open the package and peel the back cover from the  tablet.
this is not a complete list of side effects and others may occur.
this includes vitamins, minerals, herbal products, and  drugs prescribed by other doctors.
do not use extra medicine to make up the missed dose.
tell your doctor if you are taking an antidepressant such as citalopram (celexa), duloxetine (cymbalta), escitalopram (lexapro), fluoxetine (prozac, sarafem, symbyax), fluvoxamine (luvox), paroxetine (paxil), sertraline (zoloft), or venlafaxine (effexor).
before taking aspirin, tell your doctor if you are using any of the following drugs: - a blood thinner such as warfarin (coumadin); or - another salicylate such as choline salicylate and/or magnesium salicylate (magan, doan's, bayer select backache pain formula, mobidin, arthropan, trilisate, tricosal), or salsalate (disalcid).
this medication may be harmful to an unborn baby's heart, and may also reduce birth weight or have other dangerous effects.
do not use this medication without telling your doctor if you are breast-feeding a baby.
do not use any other  over-the-counter medication without first asking your doctor or pharmacist.
using dry hands, place the tablet into your mouth.
enteric-coated aspirin is specially formulated to be gentle on  your stomach, but you may take it with food or milk if desired.
- swedish covenant hospital -
the enteric-coated pill has a special coating to protect your stomach.
every effort has been made to ensure that the information provided by cerner multum, inc. ('multum') is accurate, up-to-date, and complete, but no guarantee is made to that effect.
well community - mobile version - swedish covenant medical group - galter lifecenter skip to main content main menu - find a doc - medical services - cancer services - cancer services - screening and diagnostics - mammogram availability - breast health program - treatment options - support and rehabilitation services - specialties - breast cancer - colon cancer - liver cancer - prostate cancer - technology - imrt delivers radiation with pinpoint precision - resources and faqs - guidelines for yearly cancer screenings - cancer services publications - patient and family support services - screening events and community-based programs - myths and misunderstandings on breast cancer - philosophy of care - accreditations and awards - swedish covenant hospital nurse recognized as 2008 yoplait champion - cardiology and heart services - cardiac services - cardiac testing - cardiac treatment - cardiac rehabilitation - pulmonary rehabilitation - cardiac facilities - philosophy of care - chicago back institute - chicago back institute overview - back pain treatments - minimally invasive herniated disk procedures - si joint stabilization - team of clinicians - philosophy of care - chicago back institute location and contact - chicago back institute in our community - spine and back
take this medication with a full glass of water.
when pediatric hospitalization is necessary - common questions on childhood asthma - discover the fact and fiction behind many popular home remedies - all kids, familycare and moms and babies - health care and services at home - services - home health care - housecalls: mobile medical program - team of clinicians - meet the home health care team - meet the housecalls medical director and nurse practitioners - resources and faqs - home health care faqs - housecalls frequently asked questions - education and services for care givers - education and services for patients - location and contact - home health care contact information and service area - housecalls contact information and service area - philosophy of care - laboratory and blood work - mental health services - mental health services - psychological services - psychiatric services - team of clinicians - midwifery - services - team of clinicians - resources and faq's - location and contact - philosophy of care - ophthalmology (eye health) - orthopedic program - orthopedic program overview - orthopedic services and treatments - joint replacement program - resources and faqs - articles by dr. levi: cartilage injuries - miniminally invasive hip surgery - unique orthopedic offerings - physical therapy and rehabilitation - physicians - location and contact - pain management - pain management services - conditions treated with pain management - pain management procedures - lidocaine infusions - team of clinicians - resources and faqs - scheduling your appointment - preparing for your appointment - performance outcomes - pediatrics - well-child exams - team of clinicians - resources and faqs - preparing for your child’s appointment - common health advice for parents - prenatal visit faqs - new born guide - other health resources - baby 411 - location and contact - philosophy of care - physical therapy - post-hospital services - resources and faqs - nursing home evaluation checklists - living in a nursing home: myths and realities - skilled nursing facility and other resources - pulmonary rehabilitation - radiology services - radiology services - interventional radiology - uterine fibroid embolization - vertebroplasty: advanced treatment for osteoporosis - bone density screening - cardiac scoring - technology - mri technology - ct technology - rehabilitation services - physical therapy - specialty programs - occupational therapy - speech-language pathology - work conditioning - resources and faq’s - balance center - primary stroke center certification - sleep and neurodiagnostic center - services - overnight sleep studies - treatment options - resources and faqs - surgical services - surgical procedures - robotic surgery - da vinci si robotic surgery system - benefits of the da vinci si robotic surgery system - our expert surgeons - how to schedule a robotic surgery appointment - resources and faq’s
there are many brands and forms of aspirin available and not all brands are listed on this leaflet.
do not use this medication without  telling your doctor if you are breast-feeding a baby.
read the label of any other medicine you are using to see if it contains aspirin.
take this medication with a  full glass of water.
since aspirin is often used as needed, you may not be on a dosing schedule.
aspirin is used to treat mild to moderate pain, and also to reduce fever or inflammation.
aspirin is contained in many medicines available over the counter.
stop using this medication and call your doctor at once if you have any of these serious side effects: - black, bloody, or tarry stools; - coughing up blood or vomit that looks like coffee grounds; - severe nausea, vomiting, or stomach pain; - fever lasting longer than 3 days; - swelling, or pain lasting longer than 10 days; or - hearing problems, ringing in your ears.
before taking aspirin, tell your doctor if you are using any of the  following drugs: a blood thinner such as warfarin (coumadin); or another salicylate such as choline salicylate and/or magnesium salicylate  (magan, doan's, bayer select backache pain formula, mobidin, arthropan,  trilisate, tricosal), or salsalate (disalcid).
your pharmacist can provide more information about aspirin.
call your doctor for medical advice about side effects.
ibuprofen may make aspirin less effective in protecting your heart and blood vessels.
what are the possible side effects of aspirin?
avoid taking ibuprofen (advil, motrin) if you are taking aspirin to  prevent stroke or heart attack.
- a growing problem: obesity in kids -
get emergency medical help if you have any of thesesigns of an allergic reaction: hives; difficulty breathing; swelling of your face, lips, tongue, or throat.
the chewable tablet form of aspirin must be chewed before swallowing.
multum information has been compiled for use by healthcare practitioners and consumers in the united states and therefore multum does not warrant that uses outside of the united states are appropriate, unless specifically indicated otherwise.
remember, keep this and all other medicines out of the reach of  children, never share your medicines with others, and use this medication only  for the indication prescribed.
read the  label of any other medicine you are using to see if it contains aspirin.
your use of this information means that you agree to theterms of use.
less serious side effects may include: upset stomach, heartburn; drowsiness; or headache.
breaking this pill would cause too much of the drug to be released at one  time.
- our patient stories - vascular services - vascular services - vascular disease risk factors - treating vascular problems - vascular screenings - vital screening package - online assessment - weight management - weight management services - weight management comprehensive evaluation - weight management surgical options - weight management non-surgical options - team of clinicians - weight management resources and faqs - location and contact - our patient stories - obesity win means fewer medications, more happiness for mom - women's health - women's health services - ob/gyn practice - family birthing center - breast health - incontinence and pelvic pain - treatments - surgical options - menopause - osteoporosis - team of clinicians - resources and faq’s - embracing menopause: preparing for a healthy transition - tips for a great mammogram - wound care center - wound care services - wound care procedures and treatments - prevention and home treatment techniques - wound care center team of clinicians - wound care center resources and faqs - preparing for your visit - wound care
use this medication exactly as directed on the label, or as it has been prescribed by your doctor.
- © 2011 swedish covenant hospital - contact us - site map - copyright and legal - vendor compliance - privacy statement - spanish (pdf) - korean (pdf) - russian (pdf) 5145 n california avenue, chicago, illinois 60625 773.878.8200
overdose symptoms may include ringing in your ears, headache, nausea, vomiting, dizziness, confusion, hallucinations, rapid breathing, fever, seizure (convulsions), or coma.
store aspirin at room temperature away from moisture and heat.
if you must  use both medications, take the ibuprofen at least 8 hours before or 30 minutes  after you take the aspirin (non-enteric coated form).
ibuprofen can make aspirin less effective in  protecting your heart and blood vessels.
taking aspirin with food or milk can lessen stomach upset.
tell your doctor if you are pregnant or plan to  become pregnant while you are taking aspirin.
drug information contained herein may be time sensitive.
do not use extra medicine to  make up the missed dose.
tell your doctor about all the prescription and over-the-counter  medications you use.
multum's drug information is an  informational resource designed to assist licensed healthcare practitioners in  caring for their patients and/or to serve consumers viewing this service as a  supplement to, and not a substitute for, the expertise, skill, knowledge and  judgment of healthcare practitioners.
taking any of these drugs with aspirin may cause you to bruise or bleed easily.
mg ec orange-tim round, orange, imprinted with t slide 1 of 8 aspirin 325 mg ec red-tim round, red, imprinted with t slide 2 of 8 aspirin 650
it works by reducing substances in the body that cause pain, fever, and inflammation.
how this information was developed to help you make better health decisions.
the information  contained herein is not intended to cover all possible uses, directions,  precautions, warnings, drug interactions, allergic reactions, or adverse  effects.
your use of the content provided in this service indicates that you have read, understood and agree to the end-user license agreement, which can be accessed byclicking on this link.
every effort has been made to ensure that the information provided by  cerner multum, inc. ('multum') is accurate, up-to-date, and complete, but no  guarantee is made to that effect.
do  not crush, chew, break, or open anenteric-coated or extended-release pill.
keep the orally disintegrating tablet in its package until you are  ready to take the medicine.
this information does not replace the advice of a doctor.
seek emergency medical attention if you  think you have used too much of this medicine.
nsaids include ibuprofen (motrin, advil), diclofenac  (voltaren), diflunisal (dolobid), etodolac (lodine), flurbiprofen (ansaid),  indomethacin (indocin), ketoprofen (orudis), ketorolac (toradol), mefenamic  acid (ponstel), meloxicam (mobic), nabumetone (relafen), naproxen (aleve,  naprosyn), piroxicam (feldene), and others.
remember, keep this and all other medicines out of the reach of children, never share your medicines with others, and use this medication only for the indication prescribed.
you may need to stop using the medicine for a  short time.
copyright 1996-2010 cerner multum, inc.
if you have any of these other conditions, you may need a dose adjustment or special tests to safely take aspirin:
if you are taking aspirin to prevent heart attack or stroke, avoid also taking ibuprofen (advil, motrin).