mg, like other  opioid-containing analgesics, may impair mental and/or physical abilities  required for the performance of potentially hazardous tasks such as driving a  car or operating machinery; patients should be cautioned accordingly.
all nsaids, both cox-2 selective and nonselective, may have a similar risk.
patients  should be apprised of the importance of this follow-up (see warnings,  cardiovascular effects).
following an acute overdosage, toxicity may result from hydrocodone and/or ibuprofen.
when combined therapy is contemplated, the dose of one or both agents should be reduced.
hydrocodone bitartrate and  ibuprofen tablets may be habit-forming.
the intensity of the syndrome does not always correlate with the duration of maternal opioid use or dose.
caution should be used when hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets are administered concomitantly with methotrexate.
thinking abnormalities.
only one in five patients who develops a serious upper gi adverse event on nsaid therapy, is symptomatic.
distribution ibuprofen is highly protein-bound (99%) like most other non-steroidal  anti-inflammatory agents.
a patient with symptoms and/or signs suggesting liver dysfunction, or in  whom an abnormal liver test has occurred, should be evaluated for evidence of  the development of more severe hepatic reactions while on hydrocodone  bitartrate and ibuprofen tablet therapy.
gastric emptying may be useful in removing unabsorbed drug.
both the r- and s-isomers are metabolized to two primary metabolites:  (+)-2-4’-(2hydroxy-2-methyl-propyl) phenyl propionic acid and  (+)-2-4’-(2carboxypropyl) phenyl propionic acid, both of which circulate  in the plasma at low levels relative to the parent.
please help improve this article byadding to it.
this should be considered  when prescribing or dispensing hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets in  situations where the physician or pharmacist is concerned about an increased  risk of misuse, abuse or diversion (see drug abuse and dependence).
its mode action, like that of other nsaids, is not completely understood, but may be related to inhibition of cyclooxygenase activity and prostaglandin synthesis.
the effects of warfarin and nsaids on gi bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious gi bleeding higher than users of either drug alone.
these serious adverse events can occur at any  time, with or without warning symptoms, in patients treated with nsaids.
maois have been reported to intensify the effects of at least one opioid drug causing anxiety, confusion and significant depression of respiration or coma.
the mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%.
therefore, treatment with hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets is not recommended in these patients with advanced renal disease.
abrupt  discontinuation of corticosteroids may lead to disease exacerbation.
the safety and effectiveness of hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen in pediatric patients below the age of 16 have not been established.
talk to your healthcare provider or pharmacist for more information about nsaid medicines.
in addition to supportive measures the use of oral activated charcoal may help to reduce the absorption and reabsorption of ibuprofen.
hydrocodone, as well as other opioid analgesics, may enhance the neuromuscular blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increased degree of respiratory depression.
the concurrent use of aspirin and an nsaid does increase the risk of serious gi events (see gastrointestinal (gi) effects - risk of gi ulceration, bleeding and perforation).
patients on long-term treatment with nsaids including ibuprofen, should have their hemoglobin or hematocrit checked if they exhibit any signs or symptoms of anemia.
advanced renal disease no information is available from controlled clinical studies regarding the  use of hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets in patients with advanced  renal disease.
digestive: chalky stool; “clenching teeth”; dysphagia; esophageal spasm; esophagitis; gastroenteritis; glossitis; liver enzyme elevation.
these serious events may occur without warning.
indications and usage carefully consider the potential benefits and risks of hydrocodone  bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets and other treatment options before deciding to  use hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets.
administration  of hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets is not recommended during labor  and delivery.
misuse, abuse and diversion of opioids hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets contain hydrocodone, an opioid  agonist, and are a schedule iii controlled substance.
patients with  cardiovascular disease or risk factors for cardiovascular disease may be at  greater risk.
unlike aspirin, their effect on platelet function is quantitatively less, of shorter duration, and reversible.
its structural formula is: c13h18o2 m.w. 206.29 inactive ingredients in hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets  include: colloidal silicon dioxide, corn starch, hypromellose, lactose  monohydrate, pregelatinized starch, polyethylene glycol, stearic acid, titanium  dioxide, and triacetin.
dialysis is not likely to be effective for removal of ibuprofen because it is very highly bound to plasma proteins.
the effects of warfarin and nsaids on gi bleeding are synergistic, such  that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious gi bleeding higher  than users of either drug alone.
the use of aspirin in patients with aspirin-sensitive asthma has been associated with severe bronchospasm, which may be fatal.
as with other drugs known to inhibit prostaglandin synthesis, an increased  incidence of dystocia and delayed parturition occurred in rats.
hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets should be used with caution in patients with fluid retention or heart failure.
the concurrent use of aspirin and an nsaid does increase the risk of serious gi  events (see gastrointestinal (gi) effects - risk of gi ulceration, bleeding and  perforation).
contraindications hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets are contraindicated in  patients with known hypersensitivity to hydrocodone or ibuprofen.
most  spontaneous reports of fatal gi events are in elderly or debilitated patients  and therefore, special care should be taken in treating this population.
skin reactions products containing nsaids, including hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen  tablets, can cause serious skin adverse events such as exfoliative dermatitis,  stevens-johnson syndrome (sjs), and toxic epidermal necrolysis (ten), which can  be fatal.
patients  known to be hypersensitive to other opioids may exhibit cross-sensitivity to  hydrocodone.
these laboratory abnormalities may progress,  may remain unchanged, or may be transient with continued therapy.
this symptom complex typically occurs  in asthmatic patients who experience rhinitis with or without nasal polyps, or  who exhibit severe, potentially fatal bronchospasm after taking aspirin or  other nsaids.
no significant pharmacokinetic differences based on age or gender have been demonstrated.
a schedule cs-iii controlled substance.
metabolism hydrocodone exhibits a complex pattern of metabolism, including  o-demethylation, n-demethylation, and 6-keto reduction to the corresponding  6-α and 6-β-hydroxy metabolites.
although it is probably more likely to occur in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus and related connective tissue diseases, it has been reported in patients who do not have an underlying chronic disease.
when combined therapy is contemplated, the dose of one or both  agents should be reduced.
(see the end of this medication guide for a list of prescription nsaid medicines.)
emergency help should be sought in cases where an anaphylactoid reaction occurs.
the following lists adverse events that occurred with an incidence of 1% or greater in clinical trials of hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets, without regard to the causal relationship of the events to the drug.
the concurrent use of anticholinergics with hydrocodone preparations may produce paralytic ileus.
the o- and n-demethylation processes are mediated by separate p-450 isoenzymes: cyp2d6 and cyp3a4, respectively.
patients on long-term treatment with nsaids, should have their cbc and a  chemistry profile checked periodically.
hydromorphone, a potent opioid, is formed from the o-demethylation of hydrocodone and contributes to the total analgesic effect of hydrocodone.
this may indicate that ibuprofen could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate.
the effects of hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets on labor and delivery in pregnant women are unknown.
the precise mechanism of  action of hydrocodone and other opioids is not known, although it is believed  to relate to the existence of opiate receptors in the central nervous system.
in addition, rare cases of severe hepatic reactions, including jaundice and fatal fulminant hepatitis, liver necrosis and hepatic failure, some of them with fatal outcomes have been reported.
a patient with symptoms and/or signs suggesting liver dysfunction, or in whom an abnormal liver test has occurred, should be evaluated for evidence of the development of more severe hepatic reactions while on hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablet therapy.
cardiovascular: arrhythmia; hypotension; tachycardia.
abuse and addiction are separate and distinct from physical dependence and tolerance.
furthermore, opioids produce adverse reactions which may obscure the  clinical course of patients with head injuries.
hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets, like other nsaid-containing  products, may cause serious cv side effects, such as mi or stroke, which may  result in hospitalization and even death.
the mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15%  and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%.
nonteratogenic effects because of the known effects of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs on  the fetal cardiovascular system (closure of ductus arteriosus), use during  pregnancy (particularly late pregnancy) should be avoided.
lithium ibuprofen has been shown to elevate plasma lithium concentration and reduce  renal lithium clearance.
use the lowest effective dose  for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals  (see warnings).
these events can occur at any time during use and without  warning symptoms.
physicians and patients should remain alert for the development of such events, even in the absence of previous cv symptoms.
ibuprofen is a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agent that possesses analgesic and antipyretic activities.
no advantage was demonstrated for the two-tablet dose.
patients on prolonged corticosteroid therapy should have their therapy tapered slowly if a decision is made to discontinue corticosteroids.
patients should also be encouraged to read the hydrocodone bitartrate and  ibuprofen tablet medication guide that accompanies each prescription dispensed.
since cross-reactivity between aspirin and  other nsaids has been reported in such aspirin-sensitive patients, hydrocodone  bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets should not be administered to patients with  this form of aspirin sensitivity and should be used with caution in patients  with preexisting asthma.
borderline elevations of one or more liver enzymes may occur in up to 15% of patients taking nsaids including ibuprofen as found in hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets.
special senses: altered vision; bad taste; dry eyes.
its structural formula is: c18h21no3•c4h6o6•2½ h2o m.w. 494.50 ibuprofen is a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agent [non-selective cox  inhibitor] with analgesic and antipyretic properties.
renal effects long-term administration of nsaids has resulted in renal papillary necrosis  and other renal injury.
proper assessment of the patient, proper prescribing practices, periodic re-evaluation of therapy, and proper dispensing and storage are appropriate measures that help to limit abuse of opioid drugs.
the overall incidence rates  of adverse experiences in the trials were fairly similar for this patient group  and those who received the comparison treatment, acetaminophen 600 mg with  codeine 60 mg.
serious overdose with hydrocodone is characterized by respiratory depression (a decrease in respiratory rate and/or tidal volume, cheyne-stokes respiration, cyanosis) extreme somnolence progressing to stupor or coma, skeletal muscle flaccidity, cold and clammy skin, and sometimes bradycardia and hypotension.
nsaid medicines can cause ulcers and bleeding in the stomach and intestines at any time during treatment.
hydrocodone bitartrate is a semisynthetic and centrally acting opioid  analgesic.
hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen, administered to rats  at 166 mg/kg (10.0 and 1.66 times the maximum clinical dose based on body  weight and surface area, respectively), a maternally toxic dose, did not result  in any reproductive toxicity.
ibuprofen does not have any known effects on opiate receptors.
furthermore, opioids produce adverse reactions which may obscure the clinical course of patients with head injuries.
during concomitant therapy with hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see warnings, renal effects), as well as diuretic efficacy.
aspirin when hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets are administered with  aspirin, the protein binding of aspirin is reduced, although the clearance of  free hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen is not altered.
geriatric use in controlled clinical trials there was no difference in tolerability  between patients < 65 years of age and those ≥ 65, apart from an  increased tendency of the elderly to develop constipation.
the respiratory depressant effects of opioids and their capacity to elevate cerebrospinal fluid pressure may be markedly exaggerated in the presence of head injury, intracranial lesions or a preexisting increase in intracranial pressure.
or if abnormal liver tests persist or worsen, hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets should be discontinued.
hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets can be abused in a manner  similar to other opioid agonists, legal or illicit.
upper gi ulcers, gross bleeding, or perforation caused  by nsaids occur in approximately 1% of patients treated for 3 to 6 months, and  in about 2 to 4% of patients treated for one year.
as with any opioid analgesic agent, hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets should be used with caution in elderly or debilitated patients, and those with severe impairment of hepatic or renal function, hypothyroidism, addison’s disease, prostatic hypertrophy or urethral stricture.
blood pressure (bp) should be monitored closely  during the initiation of nsaid treatment and throughout the course of therapy.
this effect has  been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by ibuprofen.
patients at greatest risk of this reaction are those with impaired renal function, heart failure, liver dysfunction, those taking diuretics and ace inhibitors, and the elderly.
the pharmacological activity of hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets in reducing fever and inflammation may diminish the utility of these diagnostic signs in detecting complications of presumed noninfectious, painful conditions.
fluid retention and edema have been observed in some patients taking nsaids.
aseptic meningitis with fever and coma has been observed on rare occasions in patients on ibuprofen therapy as found in hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets.
[#footnote-reference-1 1] 1
ibuprofen component ibuprofen is a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agent that possesses  analgesic and antipyretic activities.
laboratory tests because serious gi tract ulcerations and bleeding can occur without warning  symptoms, physicians should monitor for signs or symptoms of gi bleeding.
primary attention should be given to the re-establishment of adequate respiratory exchange through provision of a patent airway and the institution of assisted or controlled ventilation.
nsaid medicines are used to treat pain and redness, swelling, and heat (inflammation) from medical conditions such as: who should not take a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (nsaid)?
if these occur,  patients should be instructed to seek immediate emergency help (see warnings).
only  one in five patients who develops a serious upper gi adverse event on nsaid  therapy, is symptomatic.
this interaction should be given consideration in patients  taking hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets concomitantly with  ace-inhibitors.
digestive: anorexia; constipation (22%); diarrhea*; dry mouth*; dyspepsia (12%); flatulence*; gastritis; melena; mouth ulcers; nausea (21%); thirst; vomiting*.
patients taking thiazides or loop diuretics may have impaired response to these therapies when taking nsaids.
mixed agonist/antagonist opioid analgesics agonist/antagonist analgesics (i.e., pentazocine, nalbuphine, butorphanol  and buprenorphine) should be administered with caution to patients who have  received or are receiving a course of therapy with a pure opioid agonist  analgesic such as hydrocodone.
cough reflex hydrocodone suppresses the cough reflex; as with opioids, caution should be  exercised when hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets are used  postoperatively and in patients with pulmonary disease.
urogenital: urinary frequency.
methotrexate ibuprofen, as well as other nsaids, has been reported to competitively  inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices.
hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets are indicated for the  short-term (generally less than 10 days) management of acute pain.
fatal reactions to nsaids have been reported in such patients  (see contraindications and precautions, preexisting asthma).
patients should be apprised of the importance of this follow-up (see warnings,  gastrointestinal (gi) effects - risk of gi ulceration, bleeding and  perforation).
in addition to analgesia, opioids may produce drowsiness, changes in mood, and mental clouding.
patients receiving other opioids, antihistamines, antipsychotics, antianxiety agents, or other cns depressants (including alcohol) concomitantly with hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets may exhibit an additive cns depression.
hydrocodone suppresses the cough reflex; as with opioids, caution should be exercised when hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets are used postoperatively and in patients with pulmonary disease.
if clinical signs and symptoms  consistent with liver or renal disease develop, systemic manifestations occur  (e.g., eosinophilia, rash, etc.) or if abnormal liver tests persist or worsen,  hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets should be discontinued.
ibuprofen is present in this product as a racemate, and following  absorption it undergoes interconversion in the plasma from the r-isomer to the  s-isomer.
if clinical signs and symptoms  consistent with liver disease develop, or if systemic manifestations occur  (e.g., eosinophilia, rash, etc.), hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets  should be discontinued.
although  serious gi tract ulcerations and bleeding can occur without warning symptoms,  patients should be alert for the signs and symptoms of ulcerations and  bleeding, and should ask for medical advice when observing any indicative sign  or symptoms including epigastric pain, dyspepsia, melena, and hematemesis.
if hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablet therapy must be initiated, close monitoring of the patient's renal function is advisable.
there is no consistent evidence that concurrent use of aspirin mitigates the increased risk of serious cv thrombotic events associated with nsaid use.
hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets are contraindicated for the treatment of peri-operative pain in the setting of coronary artery bypass graft (cabg) surgery (see warnings).
nsaid-containing products, including hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets, should be used with caution in patients with hypertension.
ibuprofen is present in this product as a racemate, and following absorption it undergoes interconversion in the plasma from the r-isomer to the s-isomer.
hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets are contraindicated for the  treatment of peri-operative pain in the setting of coronary artery bypass graft  (cabg) surgery (see warnings).
if clinical signs and symptoms consistent with liver or renal disease develop, systemic manifestations occur (e.g., eosinophilia, rash, etc.)
hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets should not be  given to patients with the aspirin triad.
its chemical name is: 4,5 α-epoxy-3-methoxy-17-methylmorphinan-6-one tartrate (1:1) hydrate (2:5).
two large, controlled, clinical trials of a cox-2 selective nsaid for the treatment of pain in the first 10 to 14 days following cabg surgery found an increased incidence of myocardial infarction and stroke (see contraindications).
anaphylactoid reactions as with other nsaid-containing products, anaphylactoid reactions may occur  in patients without known prior exposure to hydrocodone bitartrate and  ibuprofen tablets.
renal toxicity has also been seen in patients in whom renal prostaglandins have a compensatory role in the maintenance of renal perfusion.
in limited  studies, an assay capable of detecting 1 mcg/ml did not demonstrate ibuprofen  in the milk of lactating mothers.
the effect of  food on the absorption of either component from the hydrocodone bitartrate and  ibuprofen tablet has not been established.
the use of aspirin  in patients with aspirin-sensitive asthma has been associated with severe  bronchospasm, which may be fatal.
diuretics ibuprofen has been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and  thiazides in some patients.
the following lists adverse events that occurred with an incidence of 1% or  greater in clinical trials of hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets,  without regard to the causal relationship of the events to the drug.
however, even short-term therapy is not without risk.
mg are available as: white, film-coated, round, convex tablets debossed with “5161” on one side and plain on the other side, in bottles of 100.
ibuprofen, as well as other nsaids, has been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices.
reproductive studies conducted in rats and rabbits have not demonstrated evidence of developmental abnormalities.
the concurrent use of anticholinergics with hydrocodone preparations may  produce paralytic ileus.
hematological effects anemia is sometimes seen in patients receiving nsaids, including ibuprofen  as found in hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets.
however, even short-term  therapy is not without risk.
central nervous system: agitation; abnormal dreams; decreased libido; depression; euphoria; mood changes; neuralgia; slurred speech; tremor; vertigo.
patients should be instructed to report any signs of blurred vision or  other eye symptoms.
maois have been reported to intensify the effects of at least one opioid  drug causing anxiety, confusion and significant depression of respiration or  coma.
[see usp controlled room temperature].
notable  elevations of sgpt (alt) or sgot (ast) (approximately three or more times the  upper limit of normal) have been reported in approximately 1% of patients in  clinical trials with nsaids.
drug-seeking tactics include emergency calls or visits near the end of office hours, refusal to undergo appropriate examination, testing or referral, repeated “loss” of prescriptions, tampering with prescriptions and reluctance to provide prior medical records or contact information for other treating physician(s).
physical dependence usually assumes clinically significant dimensions only after several weeks of continued opioid use, although a mild degree of physical dependence may develop after a few days of opioid therapy.
the use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (maois) or tricyclic antidepressants with hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets may increase the effect of either the antidepressant or hydrocodone.
acute abdominal conditions the administration of opioids may obscure the diagnosis or clinical course  of patients with acute abdominal conditions.
drug interactions ace-inhibitors reports suggest that nsaids may diminish the antihypertensive effect of  ace-inhibitors.
adverse reactions hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets were administered to  approximately 300 pain patients in a safety study that employed dosages and a  duration of treatment sufficient to encompass the recommended usage (see dosage  and administration).
patients should be advised to stop  the drug immediately if they develop any type of rash and contact their  physicians as soon as possible.
other information about non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (nsaids) nsaid medicines that need a prescriptiongeneric name tradename this medication guide has been approved by the u.s. food and drug administration.
the effect of food on the absorption of either component from the hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablet has not been established.
hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus.
patients with known cv disease or risk factors for cv disease may be at greater risk.
to minimize the potential risk for an adverse gi event in patients treated with an nsaid, the lowest effective dose should be used for the shortest possible duration.
do not take an nsaid medicine: tell your healthcare provider: what are the possible side effects of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (nsaids)?serious side effects include: other side effects include: get emergency help right away if you have any of the following symptoms: stop your nsaid medicine and call your healthcare provider right away if you have any of the following symptoms: these are not all the side effects with nsaid medicines.
because serious gi tract ulcerations and bleeding can occur without warning symptoms, physicians should monitor for signs or symptoms of gi bleeding.
hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets are contraindicated for the  treatment of peri-operative pain in the setting of coronary artery bypass graft  (cabg) surgery.
pediatric use the safety and effectiveness of hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen in  pediatric patients below the age of 16 have not been established.
this may be due to fluid retention, occult or gross gi blood loss, or an incompletely described effect upon erythropoiesis.
ibuprofen is a peripherally acting analgesic.
as with other drugs known to inhibit prostaglandin synthesis, an increased incidence of dystocia and delayed parturition occurred in rats.
after observing the response to initial therapy with hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets, the dose and frequency should be adjusted to suit an individual patient's needs.
hydrocodone bitartrate and  ibuprofen tablets combine the opioid analgesic agent, hydrocodone bitartrate,  with the non-steroidal anti-inflammatory (nsaid) agent, ibuprofen.
after oral dosing with the hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablet, a  peak hydrocodone plasma level of 27 ng/ml is achieved at 1.7 hours, and a peak  ibuprofen plasma level of 30 mcg/ml is achieved at 1.8 hours.
its chemical name is:  (±)-2-(p-isobutylphenyl) propionic acid.
the rate of development of tolerance varies among patients.
if  signs or symptoms of meningitis develop in a patient on hydrocodone bitartrate  and ibuprofen tablets, the possibility of its being related to ibuprofen should  be considered.
antidepressants the use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (maois) or tricyclic  antidepressants with hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets may increase  the effect of either the antidepressant or hydrocodone.
emergency help  should be sought in cases where an anaphylactoid reaction occurs.
its structural formula is: c18h21no3•c4h6o6•2½ h2o m.w. 494.50 ibuprofen is a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agent [non-selective cox inhibitor] with analgesic and antipyretic properties.
ibuprofen is highly protein-bound (99%) like most other non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents.
other factors that increase the risk for gi bleeding in patients treated with nsaids include concomitant use of oral corticosteroids or anticoagulants, longer duration of nsaid therapy, smoking, use of alcohol, older age, and poor general health status.
special risk patients as with any opioid analgesic agent, hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen  tablets should be used with caution in elderly or debilitated patients, and  those with severe impairment of hepatic or renal function, hypothyroidism,  addison’s disease, prostatic hypertrophy or urethral stricture.
hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets combine the opioid analgesic agent, hydrocodone bitartrate, with the non-steroidal anti-inflammatory (nsaid) agent, ibuprofen.
this effect has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by ibuprofen.
in single-dose studies of post surgical pain (abdominal, gynecological, orthopedic), 940 patients were studied at doses of one or two tablets.
patients known to be hypersensitive to other opioids may exhibit cross-sensitivity to hydrocodone.
ibuprofen is excreted in the urine, 50% to 60% as metabolites and approximately 15% as unchanged drug and conjugate.
elimination hydrocodone and its metabolites are eliminated primarily in the kidneys,  with a mean plasma half-life of 4.5 hours.
in cases where consciousness is impaired it may be inadvisable to perform gastric lavage.
metabolic and nutritional: weight decrease.
if you are anyone else, learn how to suggest changes.
musculoskeletal: arthralgia; myalgia.
body as a whole: abdominal pain*; asthenia*; fever; flu syndrome; headache (27%); infection*; pain.
rev. d 12/2006 manufactured by: teva pharmaceuticals usa sellersville, pa 18960 to suggest changes to this page, you must create an account on medpedia.
the overall incidence rates of adverse experiences in the trials were fairly similar for this patient group and those who received the comparison treatment, acetaminophen 600 mg with codeine 60 mg.
products containing nsaids, including hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets, can cause serious skin adverse events such as exfoliative dermatitis, stevens-johnson syndrome (sjs), and toxic epidermal necrolysis (ten), which can be fatal.
this chance increases: nsaid medicines should never be used right before or after a heart surgery called a “coronary artery bypass graft (cabg).”
adverse event rates generally increased with increasing daily dose.
“doctor shopping” to obtain additional prescriptions is common among drug abusers and people suffering from untreated addiction.
patients taking thiazides or loop diuretics may have impaired response  to these therapies when taking nsaids.
to  distinguish different rates of occurrence in clinical studies, the adverse  events are listed as follows: name of adverse event= less than 3% adverse events marked with an asterisk *= 3% to 9% adverse event rates over 9% are in parentheses.
hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets produced greater efficacy than placebo and each of its individual components given at the same dose.
hydrocodone and its metabolites are eliminated primarily in the kidneys, with a mean plasma half-life of 4.5 hours.
hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets can be abused in a manner similar to other opioid agonists, legal or illicit.
patients with asthma may have aspirin-sensitive asthma.
the pharmacokinetics of hydrocodone and ibuprofen from hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets has not been evaluated in children.
if you are a physician or phd,learn how to edit.
body as a whole: abdominal pain*; asthenia*; fever; flu syndrome; headache  (27%); infection*; pain.
this should be considered when prescribing or dispensing hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets in situations where the physician or pharmacist is concerned about an increased risk of misuse, abuse or diversion (see drug abuse and dependence).
hypertension nsaid-containing products, including hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen  tablets, can lead to onset of new hypertension or worsening of preexisting  hypertension, either of which may contribute to the increased incidence of cv  events.
since the duration of action of hydrocodone may exceed that of the naloxone, the patient should be kept under continuous surveillance and repeated doses of the antagonist should be administered as needed to maintain adequate respiration.
two large, controlled, clinical trials of a cox-2 selective nsaid for the  treatment of pain in the first 10 to 14 days following cabg surgery found an  increased incidence of myocardial infarction and stroke (see contraindications).
in this situation, mixed agonist/antagonist analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect of hydrocodone and/or may precipitate withdrawal symptoms in these patients.
its chemical name is: 4,5  α-epoxy-3-methoxy-17-methylmorphinan-6-one tartrate (1:1) hydrate (2:5).
hepatic effects borderline elevations of one or more liver enzymes may occur in up to 15%  of patients taking nsaids including ibuprofen as found in hydrocodone  bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets.
gastrointestinal (gi) effects - risk of gi ulceration, bleeding and  perforation nsaids, including hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets, can cause  serious gastrointestinal (gi) adverse events including inflammation, bleeding,  ulceration, and perforation of the stomach, small intestine, or large  intestine, which can be fatal.
it is not known whether hydrocodone is excreted in human milk.
fatal reactions to nsaids have been reported in such patients (see contraindications and precautions, preexisting asthma).
hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets should not be given to patients with the aspirin triad.
it is characterized by behaviors that include one or more of the following: impaired control over drug use, compulsive use, continued use despite harm, and craving.
although the extent of protein binding of hydrocodone in human plasma has not been definitely determined, structural similarities to related opioid analgesics suggest that hydrocodone is not extensively protein bound.
its structural formula is: c13h18o2 m.w. 206.29 inactive ingredients in hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets include: colloidal silicon dioxide, corn starch, hypromellose, lactose monohydrate, pregelatinized starch, polyethylene glycol, stearic acid, titanium dioxide, and triacetin.
the precise mechanism of action of hydrocodone and other opioids is not known, although it is believed to relate to the existence of opiate receptors in the central nervous system.
patients should be informed about the signs and/or symptoms of serious cv events and the steps to take if they occur.
nsaids inhibit platelet aggregation and have been shown to prolong bleeding time in some patients.
however, animal reproduction studies are not  always predictive of human response.
abrupt discontinuation of corticosteroids may lead to disease exacerbation.
for high-risk patients, alternate therapies that do  not involve nsaids should be considered.
physicians and patients should remain alert for the  development of such events, even in the absence of previous cv symptoms.
the plasma half-life is 2.2 hours.
most of these  involve the central nervous system and smooth muscle.
patients on long-term treatment with nsaids, should have their cbc and a chemistry profile checked periodically.
urogenital: cystitis; glycosuria; impotence; urinary incontinence; urinary retention.
as with other nsaid-containing products, anaphylactoid reactions may occur in patients without known prior exposure to hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets.
anemia is sometimes seen in patients receiving nsaids, including ibuprofen as found in hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets.
this should include discontinuation of the nsaid until a serious gi  adverse event is ruled out.
to minimize the potential risk for an adverse cv event in patients treated with an nsaid, the lowest effective dose should be used for the shortest duration possible.
the pharmacokinetics of hydrocodone and ibuprofen from  hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets has not been evaluated in children.
patients and physicians should remain alert for signs and  symptoms of gi ulceration and bleeding during nsaid therapy and promptly  initiate additional evaluation and treatment if a serious gi adverse event is  suspected.
in these patients, administration of a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug may cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation and, secondarily, in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation.
the use of hydrocodone is not recommended for patients taking maois or  within 14 days of stopping such treatment.
although  serious skin reactions may occur without warning, patients should be alert for  the signs and symptoms of skin rash and blisters, fever, or other signs of  hypersensitivity such as itching, and should ask for medical advice when  observing any indicative signs or symptoms.
thus, when hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets and lithium are administered concurrently, patients should be observed for signs of lithium toxicity.
renal toxicity has also been seen in patients in whom  renal prostaglandins have a compensatory role in the maintenance of renal  perfusion.
the use of hydrocodone is not recommended for patients taking maois or within 14 days of stopping such treatment.
addiction is a primary, chronic, neurobiologic disease, with genetic, psychosocial, and environmental factors influencing its development and manifestations.
the carcinogenic and mutagenic potential of hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen has not been investigated.
if gastric lavage is performed, little drug will likely be recovered if more than an hour has elapsed since ingestion.
thus, when hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets and lithium are  administered concurrently, patients should be observed for signs of lithium  toxicity.
congestive heart failure and edema fluid retention and edema have been observed in some patients taking  nsaids.
however, because the  elderly may be more sensitive to the renal and gastrointestinal effects of  non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents as well as possible increased risk of  respiratory depression with opioids, extra caution and reduced dosages should  be used when treating the elderly with hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen  tablets.
when hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets are administered with aspirin, the protein binding of aspirin is reduced, although the clearance of free hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen is not altered.
hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets, like other nsaid-containing  products, can cause serious skin side effects such as exfoliative dermatitis,  sjs, and ten, which may result in hospitalizations and even death.
this may indicate  that ibuprofen could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate.
other factors that increase the  risk for gi bleeding in patients treated with nsaids include concomitant use of  oral corticosteroids or anticoagulants, longer duration of nsaid therapy,  smoking, use of alcohol, older age, and poor general health status.
however, because of the limited nature of the studies, and because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets, a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug, taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother.
nsaid-containing products, including  hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets, should be used with caution in  patients with hypertension.
patients should be  informed about the signs and symptoms of serious skin manifestations and use of  the drug should be discontinued at the first appearance of skin rash or any  other sign of hypersensitivity.
its mode action, like that of other  nsaids, is not completely understood, but may be related to inhibition of  cyclooxygenase activity and prostaglandin synthesis.
hydrocodone bitartrate is a semisynthetic and centrally acting opioid analgesic.
reports suggest that nsaids may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ace-inhibitors.
these laboratory abnormalities may progress, may remain unchanged, or may be transient with continued therapy.
patients should be informed of the following information before initiating therapy with an nsaid and periodically during the course of ongoing therapy.
skin and appendages: pruritus*; sweating*.
babies born to  mothers who have been taking opioids regularly prior to delivery will be  physically dependent.
adverse event rates generally increased with increasing  daily dose.
hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets are not indicated for the treatment of such conditions as osteoarthritis or rheumatoid arthritis.
the o- and n-demethylation processes are  mediated by separate p-450 isoenzymes: cyp2d6 and cyp3a4, respectively.
what is the most important information i should know about medicines called non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (nsaids)?
to distinguish different rates of occurrence in clinical studies, the adverse events are listed as follows: name of adverse event= less than 3% adverse events marked with an asterisk *= 3% to 9% adverse event rates over 9% are in parentheses.
in limited studies, an assay capable of detecting 1 mcg/ml did not demonstrate ibuprofen in the milk of lactating mothers.
hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen, administered to rats at 166 mg/kg (10.0 and 1.66 times the maximum clinical dose based on body weight and surface area, respectively), a maternally toxic dose, did not result in any reproductive toxicity.
ibuprofen does not have any known effects on  opiate receptors.
record-keeping of prescribing information, including quantity, frequency, and renewal requests is strongly advised.
since cross-reactivity between aspirin and other nsaids has been reported in such aspirin-sensitive patients, hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets should not be administered to patients with this form of aspirin sensitivity and should be used with caution in patients with preexisting asthma.
each hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablet contains: hydrocodone bitartrate, usp 7.5 mg ibuprofen, usp 200 mg hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets are supplied in a fixed combination tablet form for oral administration.
notable elevations of sgpt (alt) or sgot (ast) (approximately three or more times the upper limit of normal) have been reported in approximately 1% of patients in clinical trials with nsaids.
ibuprofen has been shown to elevate plasma lithium concentration and reduce renal lithium clearance.
hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets should not be given to patients who have experienced asthma, urticaria, or allergic-type reactions after taking aspirin or other nsaids.
however, because of the limited nature of the  studies, and because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing  infants from hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets, a decision should be  made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug, taking into  account the importance of the drug to the mother.
nursing mothers it is not known whether hydrocodone is excreted in human milk.
this response has been attributed to inhibition of  renal prostaglandin synthesis.
body as a whole: allergic reaction.
hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to hydrocodone or ibuprofen.
no information is available from controlled clinical studies regarding the use of hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets in patients with advanced renal disease.
opioid agonists have the potential for being abused and are sought by abusers and people with addiction disorders, and are subject to diversion.
if  hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablet therapy must be initiated, close  monitoring of the patient's renal function is advisable.
because of the known effects of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs on the fetal cardiovascular system (closure of ductus arteriosus), use during pregnancy (particularly late pregnancy) should be avoided.
special populations no significant pharmacokinetic differences based on age or gender have been  demonstrated.
pregnancy pregnancy category c reproductive studies conducted in rats and rabbits have not demonstrated  evidence of developmental abnormalities.
pharmacokinetics absorption
hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets, 7.5 mg/200
the event rates reported below are from approximately 150 patients who were in a group that received one tablet of hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen an average of three to four times daily.
the information on this page is seed content provided by an organization.
hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets were administered to approximately 300 pain patients in a safety study that employed dosages and a duration of treatment sufficient to encompass the recommended usage (see dosage and administration).
the usual  precautions should be observed and the possibility of respiratory depression  should be kept in mind.
hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets cannot be expected to substitute for corticosteroids or to treat corticosteroid insufficiency.
patients should be informed of the warning signs and symptoms of  hepatotoxicity (e.g., nausea, fatigue, lethargy, pruritus, jaundice, right  upper quadrant tenderness, and "flu-like" symptoms).
naloxone, a narcotic antagonist, can reverse respiratory depression and coma associated with opioid overdose or unusual sensitivity to opioids, including hydrocodone.
ibuprofen is excreted in the urine,  50% to 60% as metabolites and approximately 15% as unchanged drug and  conjugate.
patients should promptly report signs or symptoms of unexplained weight  gain or edema to their physicians.
digestive: anorexia; constipation (22%); diarrhea*; dry mouth*; dyspepsia  (12%); flatulence*; gastritis; melena; mouth ulcers; nausea (21%); thirst;  vomiting*.
in controlled clinical trials there was no difference in tolerability between patients < 65 years of age and those ≥ 65, apart from an increased tendency of the elderly to develop constipation.
patients should be informed about the signs and/or symptoms of serious cv  events and the steps to take if they occur.
14 medication guide for non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (nsaids) boxed warning cardiovascular risk nsaids1[#footnote-1 1] may cause an increased risk of serious  cardiovascular thrombotic events, myocardial infarction, and stroke, which can  be fatal.
use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals (see warnings).
patients should be informed of the signs of an anaphylactoid reaction  (e.g., difficulty breathing, swelling of the face or throat).
ibuprofen is a  peripherally acting analgesic.
these trends continue with  longer duration of use, increasing the likelihood of developing a serious gi  event at some time during the course of therapy.
the effects of hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets on  labor and delivery in pregnant women are unknown.
hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets should not be given to  patients who have experienced asthma, urticaria, or allergic-type reactions  after taking aspirin or other nsaids.
warnings cardiovascular effects cardiovascular thrombotic events clinical trials of several cox-2 selective and nonselective nsaids of up to  three years duration have shown an increased risk of serious cardiovascular  (cv) thrombotic events, myocardial infarction, and stroke, which can be fatal.
unlike aspirin, their effect on platelet function is  quantitatively less, of shorter duration, and reversible.
in these patients, administration of a non-steroidal  anti-inflammatory drug may cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin  formation and, secondarily, in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt  renal decompensation.
clinical trials of several cox-2 selective and nonselective nsaids of up to three years duration have shown an increased risk of serious cardiovascular (cv) thrombotic events, myocardial infarction, and stroke, which can be fatal.
cardiovascular: palpitations; vasodilation.
severe, rarely fatal, anaphylactic-like reactions to nsaids have been reported in such patients (see warnings, anaphylactoid reactions and precautions, preexisting asthma).
as with other nsaid-containing products, hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets should be avoided in late pregnancy because they may cause premature closure of the ductus arteriosus.
there is no consistent evidence that concurrent use of aspirin mitigates  the increased risk of serious cv thrombotic events associated with nsaid use.
elderly patients are at greater risk for serious  gastrointestinal events.
alcohol and other cns depressants may produce an additive cns depression,  when taken with this combination product, and should be avoided.
description each hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablet contains: hydrocodone bitartrate, usp 7.5 mg ibuprofen, usp 200 mg hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets are supplied in a fixed  combination tablet form for oral administration.
cns depressants patients receiving other opioids, antihistamines, antipsychotics,  antianxiety agents, or other cns depressants (including alcohol) concomitantly  with hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets may exhibit an additive cns  depression.
hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets, like other nsaid-containing  products, can cause gi discomfort and serious gi side effects, such as ulcers  and bleeding, which may result in hospitalization and even death.
in addition to analgesia, opioids may produce drowsiness, changes in mood, and  mental clouding.
the intensity of the syndrome  does not always correlate with the duration of maternal opioid use or dose.
patients receiving  hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets who may be adversely affected by  alterations in platelet function, such as those with coagulation disorders or  patients receiving anticoagulants, should be carefully monitored.
hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets, like other opioids, may be diverted for non-medical use.
therefore, an appropriate dose of naloxone hydrochloride should be administered intravenously with simultaneous efforts at respiratory resuscitation.
in late pregnancy, as with other nsaids, hydrocodone bitartrate and  ibuprofen tablets should be avoided because they may cause premature closure of  the ductus arteriosus.
as most agents in the 5-ring morphinan group of semi-synthetic opioids bind plasma protein to a similar degree (range 19% [hydromorphone] to 45% [oxycodone]), hydrocodone is expected to fall within this range.
therefore, treatment with hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen  tablets is not recommended in these patients with advanced renal disease.
however, animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response.
dosage should not exceed 5 tablets in a 24 hour period.
patients with known cv disease or risk factors for cv disease may be at greater  risk.
preexisting asthma patients with asthma may have aspirin-sensitive asthma.
renal impairment the effect of renal insufficiency on the pharmacokinetics of the  hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen dosage form has not been determined.
babies born to mothers who have been taking opioids regularly prior to delivery will be physically dependent.
carcinogenesis, mutagenesis, impairment of fertility the carcinogenic and mutagenic potential of hydrocodone bitartrate and  ibuprofen has not been investigated.
if these occur,  patients should be instructed to stop therapy and seek immediate medical  therapy.
the event rates reported below are from approximately 150 patients  who were in a group that received one tablet of hydrocodone bitartrate and  ibuprofen an average of three to four times daily.
this risk may increase with duration of use.
patients on long-term treatment with nsaids  including ibuprofen, should have their hemoglobin or hematocrit checked if they  exhibit any signs or symptoms of anemia.
at high doses or in opioid-sensitive patients, hydrocodone may produce dose-related respiratory depression by acting directly on the brain stem respiratory centers.
neuromuscular blocking agents hydrocodone, as well as other opioid analgesics, may enhance the  neuromuscular blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an  increased degree of respiratory depression.
although serious cv events can occur  without warning symptoms, patients should be alert for the signs and symptoms  of chest pain, shortness of breath, weakness, slurring of speech, and should  ask for medical advice when observing any indicative sign or symptoms.
the pharmacological activity of hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen  tablets in reducing fever and inflammation may diminish the utility of these  diagnostic signs in detecting complications of presumed noninfectious, painful  conditions.
hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets, and other opioids used in analgesia can be abused and are subject to criminal diversion.
patients should also be encouraged to read the hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablet medication guide that accompanies each prescription dispensed.
dispense in a tight, light-resistant container as defined in the usp, with a child-resistant closure (as required).
ulcers and bleeding: the chance of a person getting an ulcer or bleeding increases with: nsaid medicines should only be used: what are non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (nsaids)?
clinical pharmacology hydrocodone component hydrocodone is a semisynthetic opioid analgesic and antitussive with  multiple actions qualitatively similar to those of codeine.
throughout this package insert, the term nsaid refers to a non-aspirin  non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug.
upper gi ulcers, gross bleeding, or perforation caused by nsaids occur in approximately 1% of patients treated for 3 to 6 months, and in about 2 to 4% of patients treated for one year.
during concomitant therapy with hydrocodone  bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets, the patient should be observed closely for  signs of renal failure (see warnings, renal effects), as well as diuretic  efficacy.
hydrocodone is a semisynthetic opioid analgesic and antitussive with multiple actions qualitatively similar to those of codeine.
nsaids should be prescribed with extreme caution in those with a prior  history of ulcer disease or gastrointestinal bleeding.
in single-dose studies of post surgical pain (abdominal, gynecological,  orthopedic), 940 patients were studied at doses of one or two tablets.
discontinuation of nsaid therapy is usually followed by recovery to the pretreatment state.
hydrocodone exhibits a complex pattern of metabolism, including o-demethylation, n-demethylation, and 6-keto reduction to the corresponding 6-α and 6-β-hydroxy metabolites.
the lowest effective dose or the longest dosing interval should be sought for each patient (see warnings), especially in the elderly.
this may be due to  fluid retention, occult or gross gi blood loss, or an incompletely described  effect upon erythropoiesis.
hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen, administered to rabbits at 95 mg/kg  (5.72 and 1.9 times the maximum clinical dose based on body weight and surface  area, respectively), a maternally toxic dose, resulted in an increase in the  percentage of litters and fetuses with any major abnormality and an increase in  the number of litters and fetuses with one or more nonossified metacarpals (a  minor abnormality).
respiratory: dyspnea; hiccups; pharyngitis; rhinitis.
patients receiving hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets who may be adversely affected by alterations in platelet function, such as those with coagulation disorders or patients receiving anticoagulants, should be carefully monitored.
severe, rarely fatal, anaphylactic-like  reactions to nsaids have been reported in such patients (see warnings,  anaphylactoid reactions and precautions, preexisting asthma).
hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets contain hydrocodone, an opioid agonist, and are a schedule iii controlled substance.
discontinuation of nsaid therapy  is usually followed by recovery to the pretreatment state.
hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets should be used with  caution in patients with fluid retention or heart failure.
as most agents in the 5-ring morphinan group of semi-synthetic opioids  bind plasma protein to a similar degree (range 19% [hydromorphone] to 45%  [oxycodone]), hydrocodone is expected to fall within this range.
“drug seeking” behavior is very common in addicts and drug abusers.
the effect of renal insufficiency on the pharmacokinetics of the hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen dosage form has not been determined.
for high-risk patients, alternate therapies that do not involve nsaids should be considered.
there are currently no lead editors of this article.
most spontaneous reports of fatal gi events are in elderly or debilitated patients and therefore, special care should be taken in treating this population.
central nervous system: anxiety*; confusion; dizziness (14%); hypertonia; insomnia*; nervousness*; paresthesia; somnolence (22%);
this symptom complex typically occurs in asthmatic patients who experience rhinitis with or without nasal polyps, or who exhibit severe, potentially fatal bronchospasm after taking aspirin or other nsaids.
most of these involve the central nervous system and smooth muscle.
no  advantage was demonstrated for the two-tablet dose.
nsaid medicines may increase the chance of a heart attack or stroke that can lead to death.
agonist/antagonist analgesics (i.e., pentazocine, nalbuphine, butorphanol and buprenorphine) should be administered with caution to patients who have received or are receiving a course of therapy with a pure opioid agonist analgesic such as hydrocodone.
long-term administration of nsaids has resulted in renal papillary necrosis and other renal injury.
information for patients patients should be informed of the following information before initiating  therapy with an nsaid and periodically during the course of ongoing therapy.
hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets produced greater efficacy than  placebo and each of its individual components given at the same dose.
hydrocodone also affects the center that controls  respiratory rhythm, and may produce irregular and periodic breathing.
physicians should be aware that abuse of opioids can occur in the absence of true addiction and is characterized by misuse for non-medical purposes, often in combination with other psychoactive substances.
head injury and increased intracranial pressure the respiratory depressant effects of opioids and their capacity to elevate  cerebrospinal fluid pressure may be markedly exaggerated in the presence of  head injury, intracranial lesions or a preexisting increase in intracranial  pressure.
hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets are indicated for the short-term (generally less than 10 days) management of acute pain.
hydromorphone, a potent opioid, is  formed from the o-demethylation of hydrocodone and contributes to the total  analgesic effect of hydrocodone.
hydrocodone  bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets are not indicated for the treatment of such  conditions as osteoarthritis or rheumatoid arthritis.
if clinical signs and symptoms consistent with liver disease develop, or if systemic manifestations occur (e.g., eosinophilia, rash, etc.), hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets should be discontinued.
gastrointestinal risk nsaids cause an increased risk of serious gastrointestinal adverse events  including bleeding, ulceration, and perforation of the stomach or intestines,  which can be fatal.
after observing the initial response to therapy with hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets, the dose and frequency of dosing should be adjusted to suit the individual patient’s need, without exceeding the total daily dose recommended.
blood pressure (bp) should be monitored closely during the initiation of nsaid treatment and throughout the course of therapy.
if signs or symptoms of meningitis develop in a patient on hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets, the possibility of its being related to ibuprofen should be considered.
drug addiction is a treatable disease utilizing a multidisciplinary approach, but relapse is common.
in addition, rare cases of severe hepatic  reactions, including jaundice and fatal fulminant hepatitis, liver necrosis and  hepatic failure, some of them with fatal outcomes have been reported.
patients with a prior history of peptic ulcer disease and/or gastrointestinal bleeding who use nsaids have a greater than 10 fold increased risk for developing a gi bleed compared to patients with neither of these risk factors.
the ability of hydrocodone bitartrate and  ibuprofen to impair fertility has not been assessed.
hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen, administered to rabbits at 95 mg/kg (5.72 and 1.9 times the maximum clinical dose based on body weight and surface area, respectively), a maternally toxic dose, resulted in an increase in the percentage of litters and fetuses with any major abnormality and an increase in the number of litters and fetuses with one or more nonossified metacarpals (a minor abnormality).
skin and appendages: rash; urticaria.
this response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis.
hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets should  be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential  risk to the fetus.
ibuprofen is acidic and is excreted in the urine; therefore, it may be beneficial to administer alkali and induce diuresis.
although it is probably more likely to occur in patients  with systemic lupus erythematosus and related connective tissue diseases, it  has been reported in patients who do not have an underlying chronic disease.
the withdrawal signs include irritability and excessive  crying, tremors, hyperactive reflexes, increased respiratory rate, increased  stools, sneezing, yawning, vomiting, and fever.
tolerance, in which increasingly large doses are required in order to produce the same degree of analgesia, is manifested initially by a shortened duration of analgesic effect, and subsequently by decreases in the intensity of analgesia.
administration of hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets is not recommended during labor and delivery.
hydrocodone also affects the center that controls respiratory rhythm, and may produce irregular and periodic breathing.
carefully consider the potential benefits and risks of hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets and other treatment options before deciding to use hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets.
after oral dosing with the hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablet, a peak hydrocodone plasma level of 27 ng/ml is achieved at 1.7 hours, and a peak ibuprofen plasma level of 30 mcg/ml is achieved at 1.8 hours.
nsaids should be prescribed with extreme caution in those with a prior history of ulcer disease or gastrointestinal bleeding.
these trends continue with longer duration of use, increasing the likelihood of developing a serious gi event at some time during the course of therapy.
there is no consensus on the best method of managing withdrawal.
it should be kept in mind that tolerance to hydrocodone can develop with continued use and that the incidence of untoward effects is dose related.
patients should take the drug only for  as long as it is prescribed, in the amounts prescribed, and no more frequently  than prescribed.
symptoms include gastrointestinal irritation with erosion and hemorrhage or perforation, kidney damage, liver damage, heart damage, hemolytic anemia, agranulocytosis, thrombocytopenia, aplastic anemia, and meningitis.
caution should be  used when hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets are administered  concomitantly with methotrexate.
respiratory depression at high doses or in opioid-sensitive patients, hydrocodone may produce  dose-related respiratory depression by acting directly on the brain stem  respiratory centers.
as with other nsaid-containing products, hydrocodone bitartrate and  ibuprofen tablets should be avoided in late pregnancy because they may cause  premature closure of the ductus arteriosus.
aseptic meningitis aseptic meningitis with fever and coma has been observed on rare occasions  in patients on ibuprofen therapy as found in hydrocodone bitartrate and  ibuprofen tablets.
this interaction should be given consideration in patients taking hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets concomitantly with ace-inhibitors.
however, because the elderly may be more sensitive to the renal and gastrointestinal effects of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents as well as possible increased risk of respiratory depression with opioids, extra caution and reduced dosages should be used when treating the elderly with hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets.
the withdrawal signs include irritability and excessive crying, tremors, hyperactive reflexes, increased respiratory rate, increased stools, sneezing, yawning, vomiting, and fever.
patients should be informed about the signs and symptoms of serious skin manifestations and use of the drug should be discontinued at the first appearance of skin rash or any other sign of hypersensitivity.
store at 20° to 25°c (68° to 77°f)
both the r- and s-isomers are metabolized to two primary metabolites: (+)-2-4’-(2hydroxy-2-methyl-propyl) phenyl propionic acid and (+)-2-4’-(2carboxypropyl) phenyl propionic acid, both of which circulate in the plasma at low levels relative to the parent.
the administration of opioids may obscure the diagnosis or clinical course of patients with acute abdominal conditions.
ibuprofen has been shown to reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients.
although the extent of protein binding of hydrocodone  in human plasma has not been definitely determined, structural similarities to  related opioid analgesics suggest that hydrocodone is not extensively protein  bound.
opioid agonists have the  potential for being abused and are sought by abusers and people with addiction  disorders, and are subject to diversion.
the ability of hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen to impair fertility has not been assessed.
respiratory: asthma; bronchitis; hoarseness; increased cough; pulmonary congestion; pneumonia; shallow breathing; sinusitis.
supportive measures should be employed as indicated.
its chemical name is: (±)-2-(p-isobutylphenyl) propionic acid.
the clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other nsaid-containing products, concomitant administration of hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects.
the clinical  significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other  nsaid-containing products, concomitant administration of hydrocodone bitartrate  and ibuprofen tablets and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the  potential of increased adverse effects.
central nervous system: anxiety*; confusion; dizziness (14%); hypertonia;  insomnia*; nervousness*; paresthesia; somnolence (22%);
nsaid-containing products, including hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets, can lead to onset of new hypertension or worsening of preexisting hypertension, either of which may contribute to the increased incidence of cv events.
patients  on prolonged corticosteroid therapy should have their therapy tapered slowly if  a decision is made to discontinue corticosteroids.
precautions general hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets cannot be expected to  substitute for corticosteroids or to treat corticosteroid insufficiency.
nsaids inhibit platelet aggregation and have been shown to prolong bleeding  time in some patients.
to minimize the potential risk for an adverse cv event in patients  treated with an nsaid, the lowest effective dose should be used for the  shortest duration possible.
nsaids, including hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen tablets, can cause serious gastrointestinal (gi) adverse events including inflammation, bleeding, ulceration, and perforation of the stomach, small intestine, or large intestine, which can be fatal.
this should include discontinuation of the nsaid until a serious gi adverse event is ruled out.
in this situation, mixed agonist/antagonist  analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect of hydrocodone and/or may  precipitate withdrawal symptoms in these patients.
to minimize the potential risk for an adverse gi event in patients treated  with an nsaid, the lowest effective dose should be used for the shortest  possible duration.
the usual precautions should be observed and the possibility of respiratory depression should be kept in mind.
for the short-term (generally less than 10 days) management of acute pain, the recommended dose of hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen is one tablet every 4 to 6 hours, as necessary.
there are no adequate and well-controlled  studies in pregnant women.
metabolic and nutritional disorders: edema*.
other symptoms may include headache, dizziness, tinnitus, confusion, blurred vision, mental disturbances, skin rash, stomatitis, edema, reduced retinal sensitivity, corneal deposits, and hyperkalemia.
in severe overdosage, apnea, circulatory collapse, cardiac arrest and death may occur.
patients and physicians should remain alert for signs and symptoms of gi ulceration and bleeding during nsaid therapy and promptly initiate additional evaluation and treatment if a serious gi adverse event is suspected.
special senses: tinnitus.
patients with a prior  history of peptic ulcer disease and/or gastrointestinal bleeding who use nsaids  have a greater than 10 fold increased risk for developing a gi bleed compared  to patients with neither of these risk factors.
there are no adequate and well-controlled studies in pregnant women.
these serious adverse events can occur at any time, with or without warning symptoms, in patients treated with nsaids.
patients at greatest risk of this reaction are those with  impaired renal function, heart failure, liver dysfunction, those taking  diuretics and ace inhibitors, and the elderly.