some antacids have a lot of salt (sodium).
aspirin can irritate the stomach lining, causing bleeding or ulcers.
for more information, seeuse of ibuprofen in young children.
for more information on diarrhea symptoms and treatment, see the topics  diarrhea, age 12 and older and diarrhea, age 11 and younger.
if your child has taken this kind of medicine and he or she has changes in behavior with nausea and vomiting, call your doctor.
cough preparation precautions - cough preparations can cause problems for people who have certain health problems, such as asthma, heart disease, high blood pressure, or an enlarged prostate (bph).
if you  have kidney problems, check with your doctor before using aluminum-based  antacids.
be careful with cold medicines.
there are several types of nonprescription acid reducers on the market.
antacids and acid reducers antacids are taken to relieve heartburn or indigestion caused by excess stomach acid.
because aspirin can increase the risk of bleeding, it is not recommended  for new injuries.
newer, second-generation antihistamines (such as cetirizine and  loratadine).
these drugs can interact with other medicines and can sometimes cause serious health problems.
decongestants may also interact with some drugs, such as certain antidepressants and high blood pressure medicines.
health tools health tools help you make wise health decisions or take action to improve  your health.
they belong to a class of drugs callednonsteroidal  anti-inflammatory drugs (nsaids).
decongestants can be taken orally or used as nose drops or sprays.
a productive cough produces phlegm or mucus (sputum).
antispasmodic antidiarrheal products slow the spasms of the intestine.
allergy symptoms, especially runny nose, often respond to antihistamines.
they  can cause fluid buildup.
they may not be safe for  young children.
do not take nsaids if you have had an allergic reaction to this type of  medicine in the past.
examples include  maalox, mylanta, and riopan.
they  help relieve heartburn.
aspirin comes as adult-strength (325 mg) or low-dose (81 mg).
there are two types: - older, first-generation antihistamines (such as chlorpheniramine and diphenhydramine).
for more information, see the topicsconstipation, age 12 and older and  constipation, age 11 and younger.
- drink extra fluids when you are taking cold medicines.
- read the label so you know what the ingredients are.
these three drugs, as well as naproxen, relieve pain and reduce fever.
a nonproductive cough does not produce  sputum.
you can make a simple and soothing cough syrup at home by mixing 1 part  lemon juice with 2 parts honey.
for cold symptoms, home treatment and perhaps a decongestant will probably be more helpful.
and you can become dependent on using them all the time to have a bowel movement.
one screening could save your life.
if you take a blood thinner (anticoagulant), such as warfarin, or if you  have gout, talk to your doctor before you take aspirin.
for  cold symptoms, home treatment and perhaps a decongestant will probably be more  helpful.
- talk to your doctor before taking nsaids if you have: - ulcers or a history of bleeding in your stomach or intestines.
aspirin aspirin is widely used for relieving pain and reducing fever in adults.
read and carefully follow the  instructions included with the package.
products such as chlorpheniramine (chlor-trimeton) and diphenhydramine (benadryl) are single-ingredient antihistamine products.
don't suppress a productive cough too much (unless  it is keeping you from getting enough rest).
bulking agents, stool softeners, and laxatives there are four types of products used to prevent or treat constipation: bulking agents, stool softeners, osmotic laxatives, and stimulant laxatives.
- read and follow all label directions.
talk to your doctor or pharmacist if the medicine still makes you drowsy or if the medicine isn't helping your symptoms after 1 week.
use them with caution if you are  older than 60 or if you have chronic respiratory problems.
many of these types of antacids contain  simethicone to help break down gas bubbles in your stomach.
if your runny nose is caused by allergies, an antihistamine may help.
stool softeners can be most effective if you drink plenty of water throughout the day.
because of the danger of side effects and the interactions aspirin may have with other medicines, do not try these uses of aspirin without a doctor's supervision.
antacid and acid reducer precautions - try to eliminate the cause of frequent heartburn instead of taking antacids regularly.
antihistamine precautions don't give antihistamines to your child unless you've checked with the  doctor first.
if you need help having regular bowel movements, use a  bulking agent.
acid reducers decrease the amount of acid produced by the stomach.
all specialties - cancer - children's - heart - orthopedics & sports - women's - search services by keyword search view all medical services - find services alphabetically view all medical services - a - b - c - d - e - f - g - h - i - j - k - l - m - n - o - p - q - r - s - t - u - v - w - x - y - z - patients & visitors - - email a patient - newborns - gift shop - volunteer opportunities - caringbridge - contact us - patient services - pay your bill - pre-register - patient information - view current wait times - my sanford chart - health information - search the healthwise information database
they also help relieve runny nose and postnasal drip, which can cause a sore throat.
unintentional drug poisoning in the united states.
cold and allergy remedies
if you are pregnant, check with your doctor or pharmacist before using an antihistamine.
- high doses may result in aspirin poisoning (salicylism).
phone: 1-888-info-fda (1-888-463-6332)
heart attack and stroke: aspirin in low but regular doses may help prevent heart attacks and strokes in certain people.
read the package carefully or ask your pharmacist or doctor to help you choose one that will not cause problems.
to avoid constipation, stop taking  antidiarrheal medicines as soon as stools thicken.
do not exceed the dosage limits, and follow the instructions on the package if you have health problems that may make it unsafe for you to take the usual dosage of a product.
antacids may interfere with the absorption and action of some  prescription medicines.
stop taking aspirin and call a doctor if any of these symptoms occur: - ringing in the ears - visual disturbances - nausea - dizziness - rapid, deep breathing - if you are pregnant, check with your doctor or pharmacist before taking a pain reliever.
- medicine for arthritis or diabetes.
antihistamines can cause problems for some people with health problems  such as asthma, glaucoma, epilepsy, or an enlarged prostate.
sprays and drops are  less likely to interact with other drugs than oral decongestants are.
although it seems familiar and safe, aspirin is a very powerful drug.
- throw aspirin away if it starts to smell like vinegar.
this increases your risk of stomach bleeding.
antihistamines are also found in many cold medicines, often together with a  decongestant.
- a habit of drinking more than 3 alcoholic drinks a day.
acetaminophen precautions - the product's package label will tell you how many milligrams (mg) of medicine are in each pill or liquid dose, how much you should take; and how often you should take it.
they can also affect your coordination, even when they do not make  you drowsy.
antihistamines antihistamines dry up nasal secretions and are commonly used to treat allergy symptoms and itching.
stimulant  laxatives change the tone and feeling in the large intestine, and you can  become dependent on using laxatives all the time to have a bowel movement.
it's generally best if you don't try  to stop (suppress) a productive cough.
it  also relieves minor itching and reduces swelling and inflammation.
but nonprescription medicines help relieve some cold  symptoms, such as nasal congestion and cough.
- antihistamines can cause problems for some people with health problems such as asthma, glaucoma, epilepsy, or an enlarged prostate.
if  aspirin upsets your stomach, try a coated brand, such as ecotrin.
there are two types of antidiarrheal drugs, those that thicken the stool  and those that slow intestinal spasms.
for more information, see the topicsconstipation, age 12 and older and constipation, age 11 and younger.
these drugs can interact with other medicines and can sometimes cause serious  health problems.
learn what ingredients are  in each type so that you can avoid any adverse effects.
continued use will cause a "rebound effect " in which your mucous membranes swell up more than before you used the  spray.
stool softeners (such as colace and docusate calcium) soften the stool, making it easier to pass.
- be careful with cold medicines.
oral  decongestants (pills) provide longer relief, but they cause more side effects.
if you are pregnant, always check with your pharmacist or doctor before using any nonprescription medicine, to make sure it is safe to use during pregnancy.
look for expectorants containing guaifenesin.
it does not have the anti-inflammatory effect of nsaids, such as aspirin and ibuprofen, but it also does not cause stomach upset and other side effects.
precautions take any laxative or bulking agent with plenty of water or other liquids.
this helps bulk  up the stool and make it more firm.
thickening mixtures (such as psyllium) absorb water.
- do not take laxatives regularly.
learn what ingredients are in each type so that you can avoid any adverse effects.
do not give aspirin to anyone younger than 20 unless your doctor tells you to do so.
antihistamines may also interact with certain antidepressants, sedatives, and tranquilizers.
use of antihistamines to treat the stuffiness of a cold will often thicken  the mucus, making it harder to get rid of.
- drink extra fluids when taking antihistamines.
high doses may result in aspirin poisoning (salicylism).
if you need help having regular bowel movements, use a bulking agent.
magnesium compounds (such as phillips' milk of magnesia) may cause  diarrhea.
some may cause calcium loss and should not be taken by women who are past menopause.
- avoid alcohol if you are taking medicine with dextromethorphan in it.
fit major medical centers - sanford usd medical center sioux falls - sanford medical center fargo general information - fargo, nd - 800-437-4010 - sioux falls, sd - 605-333-1000 nurse by phone - ask-a-nurse - fargo, nd - 800-821-5167 - 701-234-5000 - healthformation - sioux falls, sd - 800-445-5788 - 605-333-4444 physician finder - fargo, nd - 877-234-4240 - 701-234-5570 - sioux falls, sd - 877-945-5678 latest sanford health news view all rss newsfeed - sanford research takes its work to international level - sanford health adds 13 radiologists - sanford health recognized for integration - sanford partners with ndsu on research - 12th annual cares for kids radiothon starts
they change the tone and feeling in the large intestine.
these symptoms could be an early sign ofreye syndrome, a rare but serious  illness.
many of the newer antihistamines  cause less drowsiness than older antihistamines or cause no drowsiness at all.
your use of this information means that you agree to theterms of use.
use as often as needed.
you may want to try an antihistamine that doesn't cause  drowsiness.
- a - b - c - d - e - f - g - h - i - j - k - l - m - n - o - p - q - r - s - t - u - v - w - x - y - z list all categories kids health topics - for kids - for teens - for parents learning resources - find classes / events - watch educational videos - locations & doctors - search for a doctor by last name specialty locations - find a sanford health location select state california iowa minnesota nebraska north dakota oklahoma south dakota select community search all locations health information - video library - family health - for kids - family health -
regular use of bulking agents is safe and helps make them more  effective.
if you are pregnant, check with your doctor or pharmacist before using a decongestant.
osmotic laxatives, such as fleet phospho-soda, milk of magnesia, or  miralax, and nonabsorbable sugars (such as lactulose or sorbitol), hold fluids  in the intestine.
spanish materials are also available.
so it can be coughed up  more easily.
cough suppressants can stifle breathing.
- magnesium compounds (such as phillips' milk of magnesia) may cause diarrhea.
a nonproductive cough does not produce sputum.
also like aspirin, they can cause nausea, stomach irritation, and heartburn.
each has slightly different cautions for use.
a productive  cough produces phlegm or mucus (sputum).
they  help soothe the throat and also moisten and thin mucus
many of these types of antacids contain simethicone to help break down gas bubbles in your stomach.
loperamide (theactive ingredient in products such as imodium a-d and  pepto diarrhea control) is an example of this type of preparation.
do not give  aspirin to anyone younger than 20 unless your doctor tells you to do so.
- regular use of laxatives may change your body's ability to absorb vitamin d andcalcium.
bulking agents, such as bran or psyllium (found in metamucil, for example) ease constipation by increasing the volume of stool and making it easier to pass.
antacids and acid reducers antacids are taken to relieve heartburn or indigestion caused by excess  stomach acid.
long-term use is not recommended.
contain baking soda.
if you have a problem with the function of your kidneys or liver, you  should be careful with using antacids.
sometimes, though, coughs are severe enough to impair  breathing or prevent rest.
antibiotics will not help.
- do not take nsaids if you have had an allergic reaction to this type of medicine in the past.
aluminum-based antacids (such as amphojel) are less potent and work more  slowly than other products do.
ask your  pharmacist for help in finding a nonprescription drug best suited to your  needs.
oral decongestants (pills) provide longer relief, but they cause more side effects.
they may also cause constipation.
- kidney, liver, or heart disease.
for more information, see the topicheartburn.
pain relievers there are dozens of pain-relief products.
stimulant laxatives (such as correctol, ex-lax, and senokot) make  stool move faster through the intestines by irritating the lining of the  intestines.
but  do not use antacids that have sodium bicarbonate (such as alka-seltzer).
look for suppressant medicines containing dextromethorphan.
- read and carefully follow all the instructions on the medicine bottle and box before giving your child acetaminophen.
but nonprescription medicines help relieve some cold symptoms, such as nasal congestion and cough.
- suppressants control or suppress the cough reflex and work best for a dry, hacking cough that keeps you awake.
if you use these medicines, always follow the directions about how much to  use based on age and in some cases weight.
- medicine to treat mental health problems.
- long-term use is not recommended.
and if you take more than the normal or recommended amount, overdose may occur.
- do not use antacids for more than 2 weeks unless you have talked with your doctor about taking them on a long-term basis.
regular use of bulking agents is safe and helps make them more effective.
this information does not replace the advice of a doctor.
migraines: regular, low-dose aspirin use may reduce the frequency of migraine headaches.
- decongestants can cause problems for people who have certain health problems, such as heart disease, high blood pressure, glaucoma, diabetes, or an overactive thyroid.
see why this one test is so important and how to schedule yours.#sanfordcancer http://t.co/f9cozsxr 09:25
don't suppress a productive cough too much (unless it is keeping you from getting enough rest).
- talk to your doctor before using nsaids if you take: - blood thinners, such as warfarin, heparin, or aspirin.
the following tips will help you use common nonprescription drugs wisely and safely.
bulking agents, laxatives, and stool softeners.
aspirin, ibuprofen, and naproxen also relieve inflammation.
but do not use antacids that have sodium bicarbonate (such as alka-seltzer).
be sure to  read the package instructions carefully, or ask apharmacist before giving any  product to an infant or young child.
aspirin precautions keep all aspirin out of children's reach.
osmotic laxatives, such as fleet phospho-soda, milk of magnesia, or miralax, and nonabsorbable sugars (such as lactulose or sorbitol), hold fluids in the intestine.
decongestants decongestants make breathing easier by shrinking swollen mucous membranes in the nose, allowing air to pass through.
these have fewer side effects.
how this information was developed to help you make better health decisions.
do not take laxatives regularly.
if you do give these medicines to a child, always  follow the directions about how much to give based on the child’s age and  weight.
these drugs can be very helpful when used properly but can cause serious  problems if used incorrectly.
some may cause  calcium loss and should not be taken by women who are past menopause.
- consult your doctor or pharmacist before taking an antacid if you take other medicines.
antihistamines are also found in many cold medicines, often together with a decongestant.
don't use medicated nasal sprays or drops more than 3 times a day or for  more than 3 days in a row.
stool softeners can be most effective if you  drink plenty of water throughout the day.
some common nonprescription medicines include: - antacids and acid reducers.
- don't use medicated nasal sprays or drops more than 3 times a day or for more than 3 days in a row.
some  products contain both thickening and antispasmodic ingredients.
avoid these antacids if you have high blood pressure or are on a salt-restricted diet.
decision points focus on key medical care decisions that are important to many health problems.
bulking agents, stool softeners, and laxatives there are four types of products used to prevent or treat constipation:  bulking agents, stool softeners, osmotic laxatives, and stimulant laxatives.
©2012 sanford health.
they belong to a class of drugs callednonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (nsaids).
employee login - privacy of health information - privacy statement - terms & conditions - fargo region - sioux falls region - sanfordlearn
take other medicines such as ibuprofen or naproxen for the  first 2 or 3 days after an injury.
antispasmodic antidiarrheal products slow the spasms of the  intestine.
there are two types: older, first-generation antihistamines (such as chlorpheniramine and  diphenhydramine).
rest and liquids are the best treatment for a cold.
also consult your doctor if you have ulcers or kidney  problems.
alka-seltzer contains aspirin, which is linked to reye syndrome, a rare but serious illness in children.
topics include the following: medicines, food and nutrition, medical devices, cosmetics, and animal health.
- sodium bicarbonate antacids (such as alka-seltzer and bromo seltzer)
- read and follow all the instructions on the medicine bottle and box carefully before giving your child ibuprofen.
web address: www.fda.gov/consumer/default.htm this web site has health information for people of all ages.
read the package carefully or ask your pharmacist or doctor to help you choose the best decongestant for you.
decongestants may also interact with some drugs, such as  certain antidepressants and high blood pressure medicines.
antacids with alginic acid (such as gaviscon) contain a foaming agent that  floats on top of the stomach contents.
during pregnancy it is okay to use antacids that have calcium carbonate (such as tums).
saline nose drops are not decongestants but may help keep nasal tissues moist so the tissues can filter air.
if you are or could be pregnant, do not take any kind of pain reliever unless your doctor has told you to.
antidiarrheal precautions - use antidiarrheals if you have diarrhea for longer than 6 hours.
avoid alcohol if you are taking medicine with dextromethorphan in it.
healthwise, incorporated disclaims any warranty or liability for your use of this information.
antacids may interfere with the absorption and action of some prescription medicines.
by keyword search by category - conditions / diseases - medications - medical tests by topic not sure where to look?
acetaminophen (the active ingredient in products such as tylenol) reduces fever and relieves pain.
cough preparation precautions cough preparations can cause problems for people who have certain health  problems, such as asthma, heart disease, high blood pressure, or an enlarged  prostate (bph).
if you are pregnant, check with your doctor or pharmacist before using a cough preparation.
consult your doctor or pharmacist before taking an antacid if you take  other medicines.
products such as coricidin, dristan, and triaminic contain both a  decongestant and an antihistamine.
it is usually best to take only single-ingredient allergy or cold preparations, instead of those containing manyactive ingredients.
- talk to your doctor before you give fever medicine to a baby who is 3 months of age or younger.
if you are pregnant, check with your doctor or pharmacist before using a  decongestant.
- avoid cold remedies that combine medicines to treat many symptoms.
cough preparations coughing is your body's way of getting foreign substances and mucus out of  yourrespiratory tract.
some common nonprescription medicines include: antacids and acid reducers.
cough preparations may also interact with sedatives, certain  antidepressants, and other medicines.
these may make you sleepy or make it harder for you to  concentrate.
when you buy pain relievers, keep in mind that generic products are  chemically equivalent to more expensive brand-name products, and they usually  work equally well.
they may not be safe for young children.
not everyone needs the same amount of medicine.
read the label so you know what the ingredients are.
antacid and acid reducer precautions try to eliminate the cause of frequent heartburn instead of taking  antacids regularly.
regular use of stimulant laxatives is not recommended.
decongestant precautions - check the label before you use these medicines.
take other medicines such as ibuprofen or naproxen for the first 2 or 3 days after an injury.
in some cases, you may find that you  don't need to take them at all.
all drugs are broken down and removed  from the body by the combined action of the liver and kidneys.
sometimes, though, coughs are severe enough to impair breathing or prevent rest.
look for suppressant medicines  containing dextromethorphan.
all drugs are broken down and removed from the body by the combined action of the liver and kidneys.
read the package  carefully or ask your pharmacist or doctor to help you choose the best  decongestant for you.
antihistamines antihistamines dry up nasal secretions and are commonly used to treat  allergy symptoms and itching.
- aspirin can irritate the stomach lining, causing bleeding or ulcers.
in general, whether you take medicines for your cold or not, you'll get  better in about a week.
these three drugs, as well as naproxen, relieve  pain and reduce fever.
- because aspirin can increase the risk of bleeding, it is not recommended for new injuries.
sanford health - for medical professionals - careers - contact us search item# or keyword search - medical services - centers of excellence view
suppressants control or suppress the cough reflex and work best for  a dry, hacking cough that keeps you awake.
to help prevent taking a high dose, follow what the label says or what your doctor told you.
read the package carefully, or ask your pharmacist or doctor to help you choose.
read and follow all label directions.
if your child or teen gets chickenpox or flu, do not treat the symptoms with over-the-counter medicines that contain bismuth subsalicylate (such as kaopectate and pepto-bismol).
stool softeners (such as colace and docusate calcium) soften the  stool, making it easier to pass.
this may help keep stomach juices from coming in contact with your esophagus.
aspirin: should i take  daily aspirin to prevent a heart attack or stroke?
drink extra fluids when you are taking cold medicines.
- calcium carbonate antacids (such as tums and alka-mints) are sometimes used as calcium supplements.
if your kidneys are not working correctly, it is possible that too much of the drug will build up in your body.
precautions - take any laxative or bulking agent with plenty of water or other liquids.
they can cause fluid buildup.
do not use these medicines if you have bloody diarrhea, a high fever, or othersigns of serious illness.
but don't assume that all nonprescription drugs are safe for you.
phm., pharmd - pharmacy last revised july 6, 2011 - top of page - next section: health tools - previous section: overview - top of page - next section: antacids and acid reducers - previous section: health tools - top of page - next section: bulking agents, stool softeners, and
decongestants can cause problems for people who have certain health  problems, such as heart disease, high blood pressure, glaucoma, diabetes, or an  overactive thyroid.
if you are on a low-salt diet, talk with your doctor or pharmacist before  choosing an antacid.
- ask your doctor if your child younger than 12 should take these medicines.
read  the package carefully or ask your pharmacist or doctor to help you choose one  that will not cause problems.
nonprescription medicines and products overview a nonprescription medicine—sometimes called an over-the-counter, or  otc, medicine—is any drug that you can buy without a doctor's  prescription.
if your kidneys  are not working correctly, it is possible that too much of the drug will build  up in your body.
look for expectorants containing  guaifenesin.
these symptoms could be an early sign ofreye syndrome, a rare but serious illness.
calcium carbonate antacids (such as tums and alka-mints) are sometimes  used as calcium supplements.
there are many choices.
when you take an antihistamine that makes you drowsy, the drowsiness  usually decreases with continued use.
in some cases, you may find that you don't need to take them at all.
sprays and drops provide rapid but temporary relief.
if you are pregnant, check with your doctor or pharmacist before using a  cough preparation.
if you do give these medicines to a child, always follow the directions about how much to give based on the child’s age and weight.
it also relieves minor itching and reduces swelling and inflammation.
other pain relievers ibuprofen (the active ingredient in products such as advil and motrin) andnaproxen (in products such as aleve) are other nsaids.
- bleeding or easy bruising.
they also draw fluids into the intestine from other tissue and blood vessels.
- medicine to decrease swelling (water pills).
examples include maalox, mylanta, and riopan.
this is to make sure a young baby's fever is not a sign of a serious illness.
decongestant precautions check the label before you use these medicines.
other places to get help organization food and drug administration (fda): consumer health information 10903
- when you take an antihistamine that makes you drowsy, the drowsiness usually decreases with continued use.
the following tips will help you use common  nonprescription drugs wisely and safely.
to help prevent  taking a high dose, follow what the label says or what your doctor told you.
ask your pharmacist for help in finding a nonprescription drug best suited to your needs.
some products contain both thickening and antispasmodic ingredients.
although it seems  familiar and safe, aspirin is a very powerful drug.
- aspirin increases the risk of reye syndrome in children.
this helps bulk up the stool and make it more firm.
new hampshire avenue silver spring, md 20993
these drugs can be very helpful when used properly but can cause serious problems if used incorrectly.
they can also affect your coordination, even when they do not make you drowsy.
your pharmacist can suggest a medicine for your cold and allergy symptoms.
talk with your doctor orpharmacist to find out what may work best for you.
stimulant laxatives (such as correctol, ex-lax, and senokot) make stool move faster through the intestines by irritating the lining of the intestines.
if you are pregnant, always check with  your pharmacist or doctor before using any nonprescription medicine, to make  sure it is safe to use during pregnancy.
use thesetips on how to avoid common medicine problems.
aspirin: should i take daily aspirin to prevent a heart attack or stroke?
and you can become dependent on using them all the time to  have a bowel movement.
aspirin increases the risk of reye syndrome in children.
these may make you sleepy or make it harder for you to concentrate.
if you have a problem with the function of your kidneys or liver, you should be careful with using antacids.
it is usually best to take only single-ingredient allergy or cold  preparations, instead of those containing manyactive ingredients.
in addition to relieving pain and inflammation, aspirin is effective against many other ailments.
- bulking agents, laxatives, and stool softeners.
read and carefully follow the instructions included with the package.
for more information, see: - coronary artery disease.
aluminum-magnesium antacids are less likely to cause constipation or  diarrhea than are aluminum-only or magnesium-only antacids.
antihistamines may  also interact with certain antidepressants, sedatives, and tranquilizers.
- aluminum-magnesium antacids are less likely to cause constipation or diarrhea than are aluminum-only or magnesium-only antacids.
ask your doctor if your child younger than 12 should take these medicines.
so it can be coughed up more easily.
this extra fluid in the intestines makes the stool softer and easier to pass.
am mar 13 find a location find a doctor my sanford chart newsletter signup sign up follow us!
they change the tone and feeling in the  large intestine.
cold and allergy remedies.
they help relieve heartburn.
it's generally best if you don't try to stop (suppress) a productive cough.
antihistamine precautions - don't give antihistamines to your child unless you've checked with the doctor first.
health tools health tools help you make wise health decisions or take action to improve your health.
like aspirin, these drugs relieve pain and reduce fever and inflammation.
be sure to read the package instructions carefully, or ask apharmacist before giving any product to an infant or young child.
they may not be safe for young children,  so check the label first.
they also draw fluids into the intestine from other tissue  and blood vessels.
decision points focus on key medical care decisions  that are important to many health problems.
throw aspirin away if it starts to smell like vinegar.
avoid alcohol when taking antihistamines.
laxatives - previous section: antacids and acid reducers - top of page - next section: antidiarrheals - previous section: bulking agents, stool softeners, and laxatives - top of page - next section: cold and allergy remedies - previous section: antidiarrheals - top of page - next section: pain relievers - previous section: cold and allergy remedies - top of page - next section: other places to get help - previous section: pain relievers - top of page - next section: related information - previous section: other places to get help - top of page - next section: references - previous section: related information - top of page - next section: credits - previous section: references - top of page last revised: july 6, 2011 author: healthwise staff medical review: e. gregory thompson, md - internal medicine & margaret hetherington, b.sc.
if your child has taken this kind of medicine and  he or she has changes in behavior with nausea and vomiting, call your doctor.
ask your pharmacist to advise you.
when you buy pain relievers, keep in mind that generic products are chemically equivalent to more expensive brand-name products, and they usually work equally well.
phm., pharmd - pharmacy
this can lead to weakened bones.
regular use of laxatives may change your body's ability to absorb vitamin d  andcalcium.
if you have kidney problems, check with your doctor before using aluminum-based antacids.
also consult your doctor if you have ulcers or kidney problems.
continued use will cause a "rebound effect " in which your mucous membranes swell up more than before you used the spray.
read the package carefully, or ask your  pharmacist or doctor to help you choose.
if aspirin upsets your stomach, try a coated brand, such as ecotrin.
- avoid alcohol when taking antihistamines.
if you are pregnant, antacids are safe to use for heartburn symptoms.
cough preparations coughing is your body's way of getting foreign substances and mucus out of yourrespiratory tract.
- stomach pain, upset stomach, or heartburn that lasts or comes back.
for more information, see the topicmigraine headaches.
aspirin, ibuprofen, and naproxen also relieve  inflammation.
- newer, second-generation antihistamines (such as cetirizine and loratadine).
aspirin precautions - keep all aspirin out of children's reach.
for more information, seeuse of acetaminophen in young children.
nsaid precautions (also see aspirin precautions) - do not use an nsaid for longer than 10 days without talking to your doctor.
some cough  preparations contain a large percentage of alcohol, and others contain codeine.
use them with caution if you are older than 60 or if you have chronic respiratory problems.
tomorrow resources from twitter - contact media relations - search the video library - view the newsroom
you can make a simple and soothing cough syrup at home by mixing 1 part lemon juice with 2 parts honey.
they help soothe the throat and also moisten and thin mucus
carefully read the label of any nonprescription drug you use, especially if you also take prescription medicines for other health problems.
there are two types of coughs: productive and nonproductive.
- use of antihistamines to treat the stuffiness of a cold will often thicken the mucus, making it harder to get rid of.
this may help keep stomach juices from  coming in contact with your esophagus.
in general, whether you take medicines for your cold or not, you'll get better in about a week.
if you use these medicines, always follow the directions about how much to use based on age and in some cases weight.
healthwise, healthwise for every health decision, and the healthwise logo are trademarks of healthwise, incorporated.
if your child or teen gets chickenpox or flu, do not treat the symptoms  with over-the-counter medicines that contain bismuth subsalicylate (such as  kaopectate and pepto-bismol).
drink extra fluids when taking antihistamines.
they may not be safe for young children, so check the label first.
decongestants decongestants make breathing easier by shrinking swollen mucous membranes  in the nose, allowing air to pass through.
credits by healthwise staff primary medical reviewer e. gregory thompson, md - internal medicine
saline  nose drops are not decongestants but may help keep nasal tissues moist so the  tissues can filter air.
sodium bicarbonate antacids (such as alka-seltzer and bromo seltzer)
there are many other ways to treat constipation, such as drinking more  water.
drink plenty of water when you use this type of laxative.
to avoid constipation, stop taking antidiarrheal medicines as soon as stools thicken.
there are two kinds of cough medicines: - expectorants help thin the mucus and make it easier to cough mucus up when you have a productive cough.
stimulant laxatives change the tone and feeling in the large intestine, and you can become dependent on using laxatives all the time to have a bowel movement.
avoid cold remedies that combine medicines to treat many symptoms.
there are several kinds of antacids.
- quick links - important numbers - newsroom general information - current wait times - about sanford health - initiatives and priorities - contact us external sites - edith sanford foundation - sanford health research - sanford health plan - sanford health foundation - sanford & webmd
some medicines should only be used by adults or older children.
most contain either aspirin, ibuprofen, or acetaminophen.
antidiarrheal precautions use antidiarrheals if you have diarrhea for longer than 6 hours.
- high blood pressure.
most contain either aspirin,  ibuprofen, or acetaminophen.
if you take a blood thinner (anticoagulant), such as warfarin, or if you have gout, talk to your doctor before you take aspirin.
there are two types of antidiarrheal drugs, those that thicken the stool and those that slow intestinal spasms.
for more information, seeacetaminophen use during pregnancy.
water and other liquids, such as fruit juices, are good cough syrups.
products such as coricidin, dristan, and triaminic contain both a decongestant and an antihistamine.
specialist medical reviewer margaret hetherington, b.sc.
there are two kinds of cough medicines: expectorants help thin the mucus and make it easier to cough mucus  up when you have a productive cough.
talk with  your doctor orpharmacist to find out what may work best for you.
be sure to take the recommended dose.
related information - allergic rhinitis - choosing a vitamin and mineral supplement - constipation, age 11 and younger - constipation, age 12 and older - coughs, age 11 and younger - coughs, age 12 and older - dealing with medicine side effects and interactions - dehydration - diarrhea, age 11 and younger - diarrhea, age 12 and older - dietary supplements (herbal medicines and natural products) - headaches - heartburn - keeping track of medicines - laxatives - medicines during pregnancy - poisoning - prevent medical errors - quick tips: giving over-the-counter medicines to children - quick tips: taking medicines wisely - respiratory problems, age 11 and younger - respiratory problems, age 12 and older - reye syndrome - your home health center references other works consulted - centers for disease control and prevention (2010).
you may want to try an antihistamine that doesn't cause drowsiness.
- aluminum-based antacids (such as amphojel) are less potent and work more slowly than other products do.
if you are on a low-salt diet, talk with your doctor or pharmacist before choosing an antacid.
available online: http://www.cdc.gov/homeandrecreationalsafety/pdf/poison-issue-brief.pdf.
examples include h2 blockers (such as famotidine and  ranitidine) and proton pump inhibitors (such as lansoprazole and omeprazole).
bulking agents, such as bran or psyllium (found in metamucil, for  example) ease constipation by increasing the volume of stool and making it  easier to pass.
these products may cause constipation.
there are many other ways to treat constipation, such as drinking more water.
avoid these antacids if you have high blood pressure or  are on a salt-restricted diet.
to learn more visit healthwise.org © 1995-2011 healthwise, incorporated.
some cough preparations contain a large percentage of alcohol, and others contain codeine.
- cold and allergy remedies.
do not  use these medicines if you have bloody diarrhea, a high fever, or othersigns of  serious illness.
talk to your doctor or pharmacist if the  medicine still makes you drowsy or if the medicine isn't helping your symptoms  after 1 week.
sprays and drops are less likely to interact with other drugs than oral decongestants are.
this extra fluid in the intestines makes the stool softer  and easier to pass.
stop taking aspirin and call a doctor if any of these symptoms occur: ringing in the ears
this can be given to  children 1 year and older.
products such as chlorpheniramine (chlor-trimeton) and diphenhydramine  (benadryl) are single-ingredient antihistamine products.
loperamide (theactive ingredient in products such as imodium a-d and pepto diarrhea control) is an example of this type of preparation.
if you are pregnant, check with your doctor or pharmacist before using an  antihistamine.
do not use antacids for more than 2 weeks unless you have talked with your  doctor about taking them on a long-term basis.
- aspirin: should i take daily aspirin to prevent a heart attack or stroke?
cough preparations may also interact with sedatives, certain antidepressants, and other medicines.
this can be given to children 1 year and older.
not everyone needs the same amount  of medicine.
there are several types of nonprescription acid  reducers on the market.
aspirin  comes as adult-strength (325 mg) or low-dose (81 mg).
- antacids with alginic acid (such as gaviscon) contain a foaming agent that floats on top of the stomach contents.
for more information on diarrhea symptoms and treatment, see the topics diarrhea, age 12 and older and diarrhea, age 11 and younger.
carefully read the label of any nonprescription drug you use, especially if  you also take prescription medicines for other health problems.
during pregnancy it is okay to use antacids that have  calcium carbonate (such as tums).
many of the newer antihistamines cause less drowsiness than older antihistamines or cause no drowsiness at all.
- cough suppressants can stifle breathing.
for teens - family health - for parents - find classes & events topic contents - overview - health tools - antacids and acid reducers - bulking agents, stool softeners, and laxatives - antidiarrheals - cold and allergy remedies - pain relievers - other places to get help - related information - references - credits nonprescription medicines and products overview a nonprescription medicine—sometimes called an over-the-counter, or otc, medicine—is any drug that you can buy without a doctor's prescription.
examples include h2 blockers (such as famotidine and ranitidine) and proton pump inhibitors (such as lansoprazole and omeprazole).