wash your hands often with soap and water.
seek medical attention immediately if your child: is breathing fast or having trouble breathing
i am breastfeeding and have the flu.
for more information, visithealthy pets, healthy people.
my child is younger than 6 months, what can i do to protect him or her  from the flu?
you will need the latest version of adobe flash player to watch the video.
- parents and caregivers of children younger than 5 or with chronic health conditions should get the flu vaccine.
children  6 months to 8 years of age who have never gotten a flu vaccination should get  two doses of this season’s vaccine.
if you need help paying for your child’s flu vaccine, the vaccines  for children program can provide assistance.
- children 6 months and older should get the flu vaccine.
keep your child at home and away from healthy people for at least 24 hours after his or her fever is gone.
the flu vaccine is not approved for infants younger than 6  months.
related links children, the flu, and the flu vaccine pandemic flu flu information for parents with young children la influenza: una guia para los padres the flu: a guide for parents a federal government website managed by the u.s. department of health & human services 200 independence avenue, s.w. - washington, d.c. 20201 - of interest - accessibility - privacy policy - plain writing - disclaimers - no fear act - viewers & players - whitehouse.gov - usa.gov - gobiernousa.gov - flu basics - symptoms - prevention - treatment - vaccination - types of flu - about us - the flu & you - children & infants - pregnant women - travelers - business planning - partners - cdc.gov - dhs.gov - ed.gov - ftc.gov - fda.gov - nih.gov - healthcare.gov - vaccines.gov - stay connected - get email updates - - - flu.gov rss - â podcasts - widgets & badges
skip navigation - home - | newsroom - | videos - | faqs - | resources - | text size a a a - | en español search flu.gov home >
- children younger than 6 months cannot get the flu vaccine.
giving aspirin to children with the flu can cause a rare but serious illness calledreye’s syndrome.
fever should be gone without the use of a fever-reducing medicine.
if you need help paying for your child’s flu vaccine, the vaccines for children program can provide assistance.
to safely treat children under 2, use a suction bulb to help clear mucus  and a cool-mist humidifier to make breathing easier.
family  members and caregivers should vaccinate themselves to protect the baby.
severe flu-related  complications are most common in children younger than 2 young children, 6  months to 5 years, are at risk offebrile seizures.
if your child has flu-like symptoms and he or she is younger than 5 years  old or has any chronic medical conditions, contact a health care provider as  soon as possible.
who's at risk > children & infants - symptoms & treatment - symptoms - treatment - caring for someone with the flu - prevention & vaccination - who's at risk - children & infants - pregnant women - seniors - people with disabilities - people with health conditions - travelers & people living abroad - types of flu - seasonal flu - h3n2v - h1n1 (swine flu) - h5n1 (avian/bird flu) - planning & preparedness - business planning - community planning - school planning - transportation planning - health professionals - state & local government - federal government - pandemic awareness - about pandemics - current situation - global activities - research activities - history - - - - - add this to... - - bookmark children & infants on delicious - bookmark stop children & infants on linkedin - bookmark children & infants on stumbleupon - rank prevention children & infants on digg - rank prevention children & infants on reddit - close who's at risk - children & infants - pregnant women - seniors - people with disabilities - people with health conditions - arthritis & the flu - asthma & the flu - cancer & the flu - diabetes & the flu - heart disease & the flu - hiv/aids & the flu - travelers & people living abroad children & infants children are at higher risk for the flu because their immune systems are not fully developed.
if your child has flu-like symptoms and he or she is younger than 5 years old or has any chronic medical conditions, contact a health care provider as soon as possible.
if you are breastfeeding you should continue to nurse your baby while being treated for the flu.
read ingredient labels on over-the-counter medications carefully to ensure they do not contain aspirin.
vaccination is especially important  for children: between 6 months and 5 years old with a chronic health condition like asthma, diabetes, or heart disease
children younger than 6 months cannot get the flu vaccine.
antibodies help fight off infection.
everyone 6 months of age and older should get the vaccine as soon as it becomes available.
if you and your children are sick with flu-like illness, take the same precautions that you would to keep your friends and family healthy.
giving aspirin to children with the flu can cause a rare but  serious illness calledreye’s syndrome.
for more  information, visithealthy pets, healthy people.
children 6 months and older should get the flu vaccine.
family members and caregivers should vaccinate themselves to protect the baby.
in addition, follow our every day steps to keep your family healthy this  flu season.
everyone 6 months of  age and older should get the vaccine as soon as it becomes available.
the pneumococcal vaccine will protect your child against pneumonia.
- if your child is younger than 5 or has any chronic health conditions and experiencesflu-like symptoms contact a health care provider as soon as possible.
children with chronic health conditions such as asthma and diabetes have an extremely high risk of developing seriousflu-related complications.
the best way to protect your child is to follow our prevention guidelines and have caregivers and household members get the flu vaccine.
travelers & people living abroad children & infants children are at higher risk for the flu because their immune systems are  not fully developed.
should i continue breastfeeding?
if possible, only adults who are not sick should care for infants,  including providing feedings.
give children and teens 5 years and older cold medicines with  acetaminophen (tylenol®) or ibuprofen (advil®, motrin®,  nuprin®), to relieve symptoms.
follow these special instructions, in addition to the recommendations in  caring for someone with the flu, when caring for children and infants with the  flu: do not give aspirin (acetylsalicylic acid) to children or teenagers who  have the flu.
children 6 months to 8 years of age who have never gotten a flu vaccination should get two doses of this season’s vaccine.
your child’s provider may want to prescribeantiviral medications to make your child’s symptoms less severe and help him or her feel better faster.
seek medical attention immediately if your child: - is breathing fast or having trouble breathing - has a bluish skin color - is not drinking enough fluids - has severe or persistent vomiting - is not waking up or interacting - is irritable and does not want to be held - has flu-like symptoms that improve but then return with fever and worse cough -
because children are at an increased risk of getting pneumonia, a complication of the flu, talk to a health care provider about thepneumococcal vaccine.
when should i seek emergency medical assistance?
in infants, watch for the signs above as well as: inability to eat no tears when crying significantly fewer wet diapers than normal
why are children at higher risk for getting the flu?
how can we keep them healthy?
children withchronic health conditions are at even higher risk of getting the flu and experiencing complications.
if your child is younger than 5 or has any chronic health conditions and  experiencesflu-like symptoms contact a health care provider as soon as possible.
infants younger than 6 months are, however, at especially high risk of flu-related complications.
how do i protect my child from the flu?
my child has the flu, how do i care for him or her?
infants younger than 6 months are, however, at especially high risk of  flu-related complications.
- do not give children younger than 4 over-the-counter cold medicines without consulting a health care provider.
you will need the latest version of adobe flash player  to watch the video.
in infants, watch for the signs above as well as: - inability to eat - trouble breathing - no tears when crying - significantly fewer wet diapers than normal
do not give children younger than 4 over-the-counter cold medicines  without consulting a health care provider.
parents and caregivers of children younger than 5 or with chronic health  conditions should get the flu vaccine.
keep your child at home and away from healthy people for at least 24 hours  after his or her fever is gone.
has other health conditions and develops flu symptoms, including a fever and/or cough
- be careful not to cough or sneeze in the baby’s face.
if you are too sick to breastfeed, pump and have someone give your milk to  your baby.
related links children, the flu, and the flu vaccine pandemic flu flu information for parents with young children la influenza: una guia para los padres the flu: a guide for parents a federal government website managed by the u.s. department of health &  human services 200 independence avenue, s.w. - washington, d.c. 20201 of interest
in addition, follow our every day steps to keep your family healthy this flu season.
each year in the u.s. an average of20,000 children under the age of 5 are hospitalized for flu-related complications.
wash your  hands often with soap and water.
get vaccinated  yourself and follow ourprevention tips to keep them healthy.
vaccination is the best protection against the flu.
how can i protect my newborn from the flu?
your child’s provider may want to prescribeantiviral  medications to make your child’s symptoms less severe and help him or her  feel better faster.
children withchronic health conditions are at even higher  risk of getting the flu and experiencing complications.
if you and your children are sick with flu-like illness, take the same  precautions that you would to keep your friends and family healthy.
children are more likely to get the flu or have flu-related complications because their immune systems are still developing.
my child is younger than 6 months, what can i do to protect him or her from the flu?
if you are breastfeeding you should continue to nurse your baby while being  treated for the flu.
- give children and teens 5 years and older cold medicines with acetaminophen (tylenol®) or ibuprofen (advil®, motrin®, nuprin®), to relieve symptoms.
because children are at an increased risk of getting pneumonia, a  complication of the flu, talk to a health care provider about thepneumococcal  vaccine.
â  each year in  the u.s. an average of20,000 children under the age of 5 are  hospitalized for flu-related complications.
read ingredient labels on  over-the-counter medications carefully to ensure they do not contain aspirin.
be careful not to cough or sneeze in the baby’s face.
fever should be gone without the use of a  fever-reducing medicine.
babies under 6 months of age should not get the flu shot.
breast milk passes antibodies from you to your baby.
children with chronic health  conditions such as asthma and diabetes have an extremely high risk of  developing seriousflu-related complications.
the best way to protect your child is to follow our prevention guidelines and have caregivers and household members get the flu  vaccine.
- to safely treat children under 2, use a suction bulb to help clear mucus and a cool-mist humidifier to make breathing easier.
severe flu-related complications are most common in children younger than 2 young children, 6 months to 5 years, are at risk offebrile seizures.
children are more likely to get the flu or have flu-related complications  because their immune systems are still developing.
vaccination is especially important for children: - between 6 months and 5 years old - with a chronic health condition like asthma, diabetes, or heart disease
get vaccinated yourself and follow ourprevention tips to keep them healthy.
has a bluish skin color is not drinking enough fluids has severe or persistent vomiting is not waking up or interacting is irritable and does not want to be held has flu-like symptoms that improve but then return with fever and worse  cough has other health conditions and develops flu symptoms, including a fever  and/or cough
the flu vaccine is not approved for infants younger than 6 months.
- if possible, only adults who are not sick should care for infants, including providing feedings.
when can he or she go to back to school or day care?
if you are too sick to breastfeed, pump and have someone give your milk to your baby.
follow these special instructions, in addition to the recommendations in caring for someone with the flu, when caring for children and infants with the flu: - do not give aspirin (acetylsalicylic acid) to children or teenagers who have the flu.
my child has the flu.