psychologic and social factors psychological factors are known to play a strong influential role in three phases of low back pain: it should be strongly noted that the presence of psychological factors in no way diminishes the reality of the pain and its disabling effects.
and why you need to avoid it vo2 max: how fit is an athlete?
injections of anesthetics such as xylocaine or bupivacaine may also help some patients.
about 20% of people with inflammatory bowel disease and about 20% of people with psoriasis develop a form of ankylosing spondylitis.
- kidney abnormalities have been reported in people taking nsaids, which resolves when the drugs are withdrawn.
it  should be noted that surgery does not always improve outcome and in some cases  can even make it worse.
studies suggest that surgery reduces back pain in many  patients, at least for a few years.
(often, the patient cannot describe an event that produced the pain.)
intravenous drug use.
if pain persists, then x-rays are usually  warranted.
percutaneous discectomy (pad) uses a tube with a device at the tip that  cuts away some of the nucleus pulposus and a vacuum that then sucks this  gelatinous matter out.
patients often take pain-relievers, particularly nsaids, although they can have severe effects on the gastrointestinal tract over time.
any very severe back pain warrants attention,  particularly if any of the following conditions are present: being over 50.
bus drivers with back pain had a significantly higher absentee rate in spite of less stress on their backs.
evidence of a herniated disc and nerve compression, however, is not an automatic indication for surgery.
it is advised only for selected patients.
events surrounding the onset and whether the pain was triggered by an  event, such as lifting a heavy object.
the annular ring contains a dense nerve network and high levels of peptides that heighten perception of pain: - tears in the annular ring are a frequent finding in patients with degenerative disk disease.
- diabetics taking oral hypoglycemics may need to adjust the dosage if they also need to take nsaids because of possible harmful interactions between the drugs.
atherosclerosis atherosclerosis (commonly called hardening of the arteries) reduces blood supply in the arteries.
low back pain low back pain is usually defined as eitheracute or chronic.
cases of cauda equina syndrome, in which an emergency operation may need  to be performed to avoid permanent damage.
anyone who has acupuncture should be sure it is performed in a reputable location with experienced practitioners who use sterilized equipment.
although less invasive techniques are being developed and described below, at this time they are no more effective than the standard approach.
treatments that provide no benefits patients should be aware  of and avoid certain approaches that are not helpful and, in some cases may be  harmful for acute low back pain: bed rest.
the direct physical connection through spinal manipulation reinforces the patient-practitioner relationship.
some people experience sharp pain in one part of the leg or hip and numbness in other parts.
fusion employs a bone graft or some other device to join the vertebrae together.
the potential for serious adverse effects from low back manipulations is low.
(drugs within this group vary in risk.
and, sciatica pain  is sometimes present when there is no bulging or extruding of the discs.
however, the  risk for low back pain does not mount steadily with ever-increasing age, which  suggests that at a certain point, the conditions causing low back pain plateau.
osteomyelitis is infection in the spine, a rare cause of back pain.
[see what causes the pain in low back  pain or sciatica?.]
problems with urination or defecation (symptom of cauda equina syndrome).
national arthritis and musculoskeletal and skin diseases, information clearinghouse, national institutes of health, 1 ams circle, bethesda, maryland 20892-3675.
cognitive-behavioral therapy.
unlike chiropractic, however, osteopathy uses manipulation of the bones, muscles, and tendons to optimize blood circulation.
symptoms include a slow development of back discomfort, with pain lasting for more than three months.
non  surgical procedures include spinal manipulation, massage therapy, and physical  therapy.
importantly, studies are reporting a lower incidence of ulcers and other toxic side effects in patients taking the cox-2 inhibitors than in those taking nsaids.
still it may be helpful for certain patients with back pain, such as pregnant women, who must avoid medications.
a one-time injection of a corticosteroid (commonly called a steroid) is directed as close to the injured location as possible.
computed tomography (ct) or magnetic resonance imaging (mri)  are not painful and can identify disc abnormalities.
- pain awakens the person at night.
endoscopic laser foraminoplasty (elf) is a minimally-invasive procedure  that is proving to be effective and to have fewer complications than other  spinal surgeries.
researchers attempted to identify factors most likely to predict an  elevated risk for recurrent pain and found that only depression was a  significant factor in the majority of those who had not recovered.
bed rest for low back pain, including most cases of sciatica, is no more effective and may even be worse than simply continuing normal activities to the degree possible.
the standard approach is to give 80 to 100 pulses per second for 45 minutes three times a day.
call (847-823-7186) or (800-346-aaos) on the internet (http://www.aaos.org/)
- some cases of chronic low back pain may be caused by inward growth of nerve fibers into the annular ring, which trigger pain within the intervertebral.
some physicians are approaching the problem as they would any chronic illness, one that is not necessarily curable and that needs a consistent on-going approach.
some recurrence of back pain and sciatica occurs in half to two-thirds of postoperative patients.
- pain increased by lying down.
(heat or cold treatments do not have much effect on  sciatica.)
their use has been demonstrated to reduce nsaid-ulcer rates by as much as 80%  compared with no treatment.
" each vertebra  can be designated by using a letter and number; the letter reflects the region  (c=cervical, t=thoracic, and l=lumbar) and the number signifies its location  within that region.
studies show, for example, that short-term use of naproxen is twice as likely as ibuprofen to be associated with hospitalization from gi bleeding.
- be sure to breathe evenly.
and, if someone is on disability  for more than six months, the person has only a 50% chance of returning to work.
this association believes that chiropracty should be limited to treating joint conditions using scientific prinicples.
half the truck drivers reported low back pain but only 24%  lost time at work.
a skin patch containing an opioid called transdermal fentanyl (duragesic) may relieve chronic back pain more effectively than oral opioids.
a 2000 analysis of studies report that either  tens or pens appears to offer some relief for chronic low back pain, at least  temporarily.
the sessions were two and a half hours each week for 12 weeks.
epidural injections of saline are being investigated for breaking up scar tissue.
office workers should have chairs, desks, and equipment that support the back or help maintain good posture.
physical therapy typically includes the following: - the first stage involves patient education and training the patient in correct movement.
alternative treatments herbal remedies.
some physicians have recommended  long-term opioids for patients with severe chronic pain, but studies suggest  they do not improve activity levels and can have significant side effects.
exercises to avoid during recovery.
narcotics are usually needed; adding an injected nsaid may speed resolution of pain.
other medical conditions sometimes back  pain can be caused by problems in other organs, usually near the spine, which  is then called referred pain.
other infections that cause back pain include lyme disease, septic arthritis,  bacterial endocarditis, reiter's syndrome, mycobacterial and fungal arthritis,  and viral arthritis.
provocative discometry is a test that uses  an injection of saline solution into the suspected disc to reproduce the pain,  which is then followed by injection of an anesthetic to dull the pain.
chronic back pain has become one of the most expensive causes of disability among workers under the age of 45.
a 2000 analysis of previous studies reported that it appeared to offer faster relief than medical treatment, but long-term superiority is uncertain.
it should  be noted that magnets can deactivate heart devices and must be kept at least  six inches away from pacemakers or implantable cardioverter defibrillators.
many experts now  believe that relying on images of disc abnormalities to determine treatment has  resulted in many unnecessary surgeries.
(patients should wait at least two to three weeks before using spinal manipulation, since early effectiveness and safety are not yet clear.)
office workers should have chairs, desks, and  equipment that support the back or help maintain good posture.
the international  chiropractors' association still advocates 19th century principles of relating  pinched nerves to overall health.)
in nearly all cases of early back pain, however, plain x-rays offer no benefit for diagnosis or determining treatment unless a specific underlying cause is suspected.
what are the lifestyle risk factors for low back pain?
some chiropractors overuse  x-rays, particularly those of the full spine, which may have harmful  consequences.
it may help men more than women.
the potential for serious adverse effects  from low back manipulations is low.
people who are depressed are more likely to have vague physical symptoms, including low back pain.
the patient should report the following: - previous episodes of back pain.
medium risk: diclofenac (voltaren), ibuprofen (motrin, advil, nuprin,  rufen), aspirin, naproxen (aleve, naprosyn, naprelan, anaprox), and tolmetin  (tolectin).
osteoarthritis osteoarthritis occurs in joints where cartilage is damaged and then destroyed.
recognizing it as a strong player in many cases of low back pain, however, can help determine the full range of treatment options.
- hypertonic saline (salt water solution).
chairs should either have  straight backs or low-back support.
these drugs are available over the counter and include famotidine  (pepcid ac), ranitidine (zantac), cimetidine (tagamet), and nizatidine (axid).
call (847-375-4715) or on the internet ( http://www.ampainsoc.org) international association for the study of pain, 909 ne 43rd st., suite 306, seattle, wa 98105-6020.
- the lumbar (l) vertebrae are the five lowest and largest bones of the spinal column.
retraining deep muscles.
chiropractic was founded in the us in the late 1800s and has been associated throughout its history with shamanism and folklore as well as with potentially genuine health benefits.
it is often aggravated by sneezing, coughing, or laughing.
- in older patients (over 65 years of age).
- pain accompanied by fever (possible infection).
recently, however, researchers are finding that the  presence of such a pinched nerve does not necessarily relate to the severity of  the pain.
approach for patients with chronic back pain of unknown causes a major review of 12 studies indicated that only intensive  treatment using a combination of physical and psychologic rehabilitation  programs reduced pain and improved function in patients with chronic low back  pain.
one 2001 study found the defective gene was present in twice as many patients with disk problems as in patients without back pain.
patients should also be aware that some chiropractors use alternative treatments that have not been proven or rigorously studied.
exercise for chronic back pain exercise  plays a very beneficial role in chronic back pain.
all content on this site may be copied, without permission, whether  reproduced digitally or in print, provided copyright, reference and source  information are intact and use is strictly for not-for-profit purposes.
piriformis syndrome some experts believe that one cause of sciatica pain is the entrapment of the sciatic nerve deep in the buttock by thepiriformis muscle.
new york committee for occupational safety and health.
even if studies report positive  benefits from herbal remedies, the compounds used in such studies are, in most  cases, not what are being marketed to the public.
approach for patients with herniated discs: approach for patients with spinal stenosis - nonsurgical procedures.
they are expensive, however, and  many experts believe they are overused and, in most cases of back pain, are not  very useful.
keeping arms at the  sides, slowly roll the knees over to one side until totally relaxed.
it may take four to six weeks for full  recovery.
a major study of work-related injuries reported that, in 1994, there were nearly 330,000 cases of back injury due to overexertion in handling objects.
many people find that alternating ice packs and heating pads is helpful  in relieving the pain.
this is a temporary, not permanent,  solution.
over time increase this exercise  until it is held for five seconds.
american chiropractors' association stresses vitamins and natural diets as well as joint conditioning.
on the other side of the coin, improper or excessive exercise is also an important risk factor for back pain.
it has value only for select patients with pain on moving and standing.
- stand as close as possible to the object being lifted.
preventdisease.com does not advocate the use of any pharmaceutical drug treatments.
it involves inserting small  pins or exerting pressure on certain "energy" points in the body.
to date no studies support such claims  and one 2000 study reported no effect in alleviating low back pain.
some of the most common are aspirin, ibuprofen, naproxen, and ketoprofen, but many others are now available.
in severe cases, the patient must  continually stoop over.
the spine is a column of small bones, orvertebrae, that support the entire upper body.
- studies are reporting a higher incidence of heart attacks in patients taking vioxx and possibly celebrex than in those taking the standard nsaid naproxen.
stress reducing techniques, including relaxation methods and meditation, may be helpful.
it can be quite mild, however, and it rarely affects a person's ability to work.
- a previous accident or injury that might have affected the back.
studies report only a weak association between obesity and low back pain, however.
about a third of patients with uncomplicated low back pain are significantly improved after a week and two thirds have recovered by seven weeks.
long-term bed rest results in loss of muscle  tone and bone strength, increases susceptibility to blood clots, and causes  depression and lethargy.
[see what are treatments for uncomplicated acute low back  pain?] exercise and physical therapy.
effects on work studies have found that  when people stay home because of back injury, only 65% are back within a week  and nearly 14% are still absent at one month.
- other relevant symptoms (eg, morning stiffness, weakness or numbness in the legs).
there are small risks to the operation and it is not always successful.
medications medications may trigger back pain.
- evidence of some physical abnormality of the spine, such as a bone spur.
the physician will also move the patient's legs in different positions and bend and straighten the knees.
the discs have no blood supply of their own, however, but rely on nearby blood vessels to keep them nourished.
three-dimensional ct scans and mri refinements may soon make diagnosis more accurate.
[see warnings on alternative and so-called natural remedies.]
programs that use strengthening exercises  while swimming may be a particularly beneficial approach for many patients with  back pain.
some h2 blockers may help prevent nsaid-induced  ulcers.
stand up without bending forward from the waist.
- while supported on hands and knees, lift and straighten right hand and left leg at the same time.
approach for patients with chronic back pain of unknown causes a major review of 12 studies indicated that only intensive treatment using a combination of physical and psychologic rehabilitation programs reduced pain and improved function in patients with chronic low back pain.
a number of surgical techniques are available for relieving pain by impairing nerves that are causing pain due to impingement.
when the spinal cord reaches the lumbar region, it splits into four bundled strands of nerve roots called the cauda equina (meaning horsetail in latin).
call (847-823-7186) or  (800-346-aaos) on the internet (http://www.aaos.org/)
one study suggested that any benefits derived from flexibility exercises are lost unless the exercise regimens are sustained.
repeat with other knee.
increasingly, research is focusing on tears in the annular ring, which is the fibrous band that surrounds and protects the disc.
although disc abnormalities are certainly a cause of low back pain, many people with disc rupture or tears do not experience back pain.
specific and regular exercise under the guidance of a trained professional is important for reducing pain and improving function, although it is often very difficult to sustain.
cauda equina syndrome cauda equina syndrome is the impingement of the cauda equina (the four strands of nerves leading through the lowest part of the spine) and can have severe complications in the bowel or bladder.
at the end of the sacrum are two to four tiny, partially fused vertebrae  known as thecoccyx or "tail bone.
social and psychologic factors play a role in how severely someone experiences pain.
the therapy employs a special table that controls adjustments along the lines of the spinal column.
(scoliosis, an abnormal curvature of the spine in children, does not usually  cause back pain.)
mris are  able to detect annular tears or disc fragments and can detect non-spinal causes  of back pain, including infection and cancer.
postoperative period: complications and outlook many patients still have back pain after discectomy that delays discharge from  the hospital.
the affected leg may  feel weak.
spinal stenosis stabilizes in about 70% of cases and worsens in 15%.
- they may have negative effects on pregnancy and fertility.
research now indicates that in many people, preexisting depression and the inability to cope may be more likely to predict the onset of pain than physical abnormalities.
reasons are as follows: studies have reported that mris miss between 6% and 23% of damaged discs  that were revealed during surgery.
the gene is  normally involved in producing collagen, the protein building block in all  structural tissue in the body.
a procedure called a facet block is also useful in  locating areas of specific damage.
the patients are barely aware of the sensation.
in one study, 16 out  of 100 warehouse workers reported back injuries in one year, and in two major  food service organizations 30% of all injuries involved the back.
such questions can usually be answered with a medical history and  physical examination.
they are a common cause  of back pain in young athletes.
a few cases of psychiatric side effects (hallucinations), fluid build up,  high blood pressure, and excess potassium in the blood has been observed with  higher doses of celecoxib or rofecoxib.
it is usually sharp, localized,  and accompanied by numbness or tingling.
osteoporosis osteoporosis is a disease of the skeleton in which the amount of calcium present in the bones slowly decreases to the point where the bones become fragile and prone to fracture.
[see what are treatments for uncomplicated acute low back pain?] - exercise and physical therapy.
other tests blood and urine samples may be used to test for infections, arthritis, or other conditions.
(scoliosis, an abnormal curvature of the spine in children, does not usually cause back pain.)
using a low stool, alternate resting each foot on it.
men and women are equally at risk.
(other side effects found with  short-term use include headache, and dizziness.)
such lack of control causes instability in the spine that can lead to pain.
(in one study, recovery from acute back pain was slower for patients who immediately embarked on flexibility exercises than for those who gradually resumed normal activity.)
it has value only for select patients with pain on moving and  standing.
long-term bed rest results in loss of muscle tone and bone strength, increases susceptibility to blood clots, and causes depression and lethargy.
the facet joints can wear down.
- any situation that relieves the pain (lying down, exercise).
discectomy standard surgery.
in  any case, neither approach appears to be helpful for relief of acute low back  pain in most patients.
massage therapy to date, no strong studies have been conducted to verify the effects of massage therapy.
it most often occurs on one side.
any history of injuries or accidents involving the neck, back, or hips.
acupuncture is now a common alternative treatment for certain kinds of pain.
(possible indication of a tumor particularly in people with a history of  cancer).
muscle relaxants a combination of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (nsaids) and muscle relaxants such as cyclobenzaprine (flexeril), diazepam (valium), carisoprodol (soma), or methocarbamol (robaxin) may be useful for some patients with acute low back pain.
(rheumatoid arthritis, which is an arthritic condition caused by inflammation in the joints, can damage joints throughout the body, but rarely affects the lower back.)
- they may delay the emptying of the stomach, which could interfere with the actions of other drugs.
if these conditions exist, usually an x-ray is used first.
if pain persists  beyond two to three weeks, at least one session of spinal manipulation may be a  useful treatment.
pain from spinal stenosis can  occur in both legs or can cause sciatic pain.
and some people without disc abnormalities complain of back pain.
bed rest for low back pain, including most cases of sciatica,  is no more effective and may even be worse than simply continuing normal  activities to the degree possible.
vertebral axial decompression vertebral axial  decompression (vax-d) is proving to reduce pain and improve function in  patients wwith chronic low back pain.
the participants  experienced no adverse effects.
scar tissue is a significant problem, since it can cause  persistent low back pain afterward.
because nearly all cases of low back pain clear up in a short time and are not  due to serious problems, a medical history and a brief physical examination are  almost always sufficient.
if the mattress is too soft, a 1/4-inch plywood board can be put between the mattress and box spring.
chronic back pain has become one of the most expensive causes of disability  among workers under the age of 45.
as examples, a single jerky golf swing or incorrect use of exercise equipment (especially free weights, nautilus, and rowing machines) can cause serious back injuries.
although no definitive studies have  been done to prove the relationship between lack of exercise and low back pain,  sedentary living is probably a primary nonmedical culprit contributing to this  condition.
below the lumbar region is the sacrum, a shield-shaped bony  structure that connects with the pelvis at the sacroiliac joints.
intense exercise and  physical activity should be avoided during acute back pain, particularly heavy  lifting and trunk twisting.
the therapy employs a special table that  controls adjustments along the lines of the spinal column.
in fact, as people age, disc bulging and protrusion are very common  occurrences, and in most cases do not cause any back pain.
it constitutes only 1%  to 5% of all low back pain cases.
a common cause of temporary back pain is carrying backpacks that  are too heavy for children (more than 20% of their body weight, or even less  for very young children).
in fact, as people age, disc bulging and protrusion are very common occurrences, and in most cases do not cause any back pain.
programs that use strengthening exercises while swimming may be a particularly beneficial approach for many patients with back pain.
yet.http://www.consumerlab.com/ the food and drug  administration has a program called medwatch for people to report adverse  reactions to untested substances, such as herbal remedies and vitamins (call  800-332-1088).
it can be painful and is generally only used for patients who are undergoing back surgery to identify the location of the injured disc.
patients will be requested to bend forward, backward, and sideways and to  twist.
- patients will be requested to bend forward, backward, and sideways and to twist.
abnormalities in disk strength.
this form of psychologic therapy helps change behavior and attitudes toward pain, and may be helpful for dealing with pain.
some patients consider spinal manipulation to be highly effective for chronic low back pain as well, although evidence in this case is much weaker.
some evidence supports its benefits.
any sudden weight gain or swelling should be reported to a physician.
the risk for bleeding is  continuous as long as a patient is on these drugs and may even persist as long  as a year after the drug is discontinued.
the patients  are barely aware of the sensation.
one 2001 study found the defective gene was  present in twice as many patients with disk problems as in patients without  back pain.
similarly, another study  found that pilots (who generally reported "loving" their jobs)  reported far fewer back problems than their flight crews.
there has not been a clear consensus even  among its own practitioners about its specific goals.
some early evidence also suggests they may be protective against colon cancer and possibly even alzheimer's disease.
the back is usually stiff in the morning; pain improves with exercise.
a number of  conditions may make people more or less susceptible to low back pain from such  events.
other medical conditions sometimes back pain can be caused by problems in other organs, usually near the spine, which is then called referred pain.
some  recurrence of back pain and sciatica occurs in half to two-thirds of  postoperative patients.
after that, and by ten years,  however, it is not clear if surgery maintains its advantage over nonsurgical  approaches.
it usually does not cause pain unless the vertebrae collapse suddenly, when pain is often severe.
using specific tasks and self-observation, patients gradually shift their fixed ideas that they are helpless against the pain that dominates their lives to the perception that pain is only one negative and, to a degree, a manageable experience among many positive ones.
the column is grouped into three sections of vertebrae: each vertebra can be designated by using a letter and number; the letter reflects the region (c=cervical, t=thoracic, and l=lumbar) and the number signifies its location within that region.
many people have a genetic susceptibility to low  back pain, usually from inheriting spinal structural abnormalities.
endoscopy employs a catheter (a thin  tube) that contains tiny cameras and surgical instruments that are inserted  through small incisions.
newer agents called cox-2 inhibitors may have fewer effects on the gi tract, but their long-term safety is unknown.
- the cervical (c) vertebrae are the seven spinal bones that support the neck.
- are the nerves in the spine involved in the pain (such as in sciatica)?
- press the lower back to the floor, hold for one second and then relax.
in one 2001 study, for example, 70% of patients with moderate to severe sciatica who had had surgery reported improvement.
sedentary lifestyle people who do not  exercise regularly face an increased risk for low back pain, especially during  times when they suddenly embark on stressful unaccustomed activity, such as  shoveling, digging, or moving heavy items.
although disc abnormalities are certainly a cause  of low back pain, many people with disc rupture or tears do not experience back  pain.
take a warm bath before bedtime, and practice  relaxation techniques.
for  example, in one study of truck drivers and bus drivers, nearly all the truck  drivers liked their work and their bosses while bus drivers reported much lower  job satisfaction.
methodological problems have clouded the results of many studies on manipulation techniques, and it is difficult to draw valid conclusions from most of them.
it should be noted that even with the best treatments, patients with chronic back pain may not experience complete pain relief and may need to develop methods for improving daily life in the face of some persistent pain.
in another survey, over a one-year period following treatment only  21% of patients had no recurring back pain.
resuming activity levels after acute back pain overexertion may be as unhelpful as prolonged bed rest during acute back  pain.
there are a number of variations, but one example of a spinal manipulation technique is the following: controversy exists over whether on-going manipulations after a first visit work any better for relieving pain than simply gradually resuming normal activity.
- obesity, associated with sedentary lifestyle (may put more weight on the spine and increase pressure on the vertebrae and discs).
it may resemble sciatica.
donate this site is owned and operated by preventdisease.com © 2011.
patients now often remain in bed only three or four days after disc surgery; studies indicate that such patients have the same or even fewer complications than those who stay in bed for weeks.
in most known cases, pain begins with an injury, after lifting a heavy object, or after making an abrupt movement.
- lowest risk: nabumetone (relafen), etodolac (lodine), salsalate, and sulindac (clinoril).
tighten the buttocks and abdomen so that they tip up slightly.
some cases of chronic low back pain may be caused by inward growth  of nerve fibers into the annular ring, which trigger pain within the  intervertebral.
bone is removed from the patient and  packed inside the cage; over time the bone grows through the holes and around  the device, fusing the vertebrae.
specific exercises for low back strength perform the following exercises at least three times a week: partial sit-ups.
when the needles have been placed successfully, the patient is supposed to experience a sensation known as teh chi, which brings a feeling of fullness, numbness, tingling, and warmth with some soreness around the acupuncture point.
one study, for example, reported that  meditation was beneficial in reducing pain and improving mood among chronic  pain sufferers who had not responded to traditional care.
one medical device uses a tiny hollow metal cage,  which is implanted into the disc space.
a herniated disc, sometimes, but incorrectly, called a slipped disc, is widely  held to be the most common cause of severe back pain and sciatica.
in some cases a segment (consisting of two vertebra and their common joint and disc) becomes unstable when its parts wear down.
it is often difficult to  get a good night's sleep when suffering from back pain, particularly because  the pain can intensify at night.
although many patients with acute and uncomplicated low back pain believe  that plain x-rays of the spinal column are important in a diagnosis, they are  not very helpful in most patients except for reducing anxiety.
simply letting pain be the guide is the best approach for achieving  movement.
warning signs for serious underlying problems certain warning signs should alert a patient to see a physician immediately for low back pain.
advanced imaging techniques should be used only when underlying infection, cancer, or nerve involvement are suspected.
at the onset of  acute low back pain when the cause is unknown the following tips may be helpful: although bed rest is no longer recommended, the patient should stop  normal physical activities for the first couple of days in order to calm  symptoms.
be sure to have a firm mattress.
inflammatory bowel disease and rheumatoid arthritis can produce inflammation in the spine (sacroiliitis).
- is some general medical disorder present that could be causing the pain?
- pain lasts for a month, and is accompanied by unexplained fever or weight loss.
some experts argue that endoscopic procedures are rarely useful and patients often need repeat operations.
it is often difficult to get a good night's sleep when suffering from back pain, particularly because the pain can intensify at night.
ankylosing spondylitis ankylosing  spondylitis is a chronic inflammation of the spine that may gradually result in  a fusion of the spine.
it  used to be grouped under juvenile rheumatoid arthritis but is now defined as a  separate problem.
sometimes heat or electro-therapies are employed, although  their benefits are unproven.
- the spinal canal itself can become narrowed, a disorder called spinal stenosis.
in fact, in some people the tensed back muscles may be  protecting the damaged disc or vertebrae, in which case medication to relax  them could be harmful.
there have been claims for a number of herbal and so-called natural remedies for relief of back pain.
while supported on hands and knees, lift and straighten right hand and  left leg at the same time.
(one 1999 study reported that 70% of cyclists reported improvement simply by adjusting the angle of the bicycle seat.)
early reports are promising, but use is not yet widespread and long-term risks and benefits are unknown.
patients may also experience it after bending backwards or walking more  than 50 to 100 yards, particularly if it is caused by spinal stenosis.
risk factors for back pain in children and adolescents the likelihood of experiencing back pain increases as  children age, and pain is more common among girls than boys, according to a  1999 study.
the national association for chiropractic medicine, 15427 baybrook drive, houston, tx 77062.
a number of companies are developing programs to  protect against back injuries.
some experts  believe that less than 1% of back pain patients need aggressive medical or  surgical treatments.
at that time, the discs are more fluid-filled  and more vulnerable to pressure from this movement.
chiropractors offer a further psychologic advantage, which is availability to  their patients.
any situation that relieves the pain (lying down, exercise).
some patients may require spinal  fusion as well.
hyperlordosis is an inborn exaggerated inward curve in the lumbar area.
in another survey, over a one-year period following treatment only 21% of patients had no recurring back pain.
many people have a genetic susceptibility to low back pain, usually from inheriting spinal structural abnormalities.
- proton-pump inhibitors include omeprazole (prilosec), lansoprazole (prevacid), rabeprazole (aciphex), and pantoprozole.
the affected leg may feel weak.
gastrointestinal complications from the use of nsaids account for almost  100,000 hospitalizations and at least 16,000 deaths a year in the united  states.
exercise for chronic back pain exercise plays a very beneficial role in chronic back pain.
(the other two chiropractice organizations are more controversial and tend toward alternative treatments.
the injection is usually an epidural, which is directed into the spaces between the outer membrane of the spine and the vertebrae.
muscle relaxants a combination of  nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (nsaids) and muscle relaxants such as  cyclobenzaprine (flexeril), diazepam (valium), carisoprodol (soma), or  methocarbamol (robaxin) may be useful for some patients with acute low back  pain.
the back is usually stiff in the  morning; pain improves with exercise.
confusion or bizarre sensation (in some higher-potency nsaids, such as  indomethacin).
- very severe pain, numbness.
evidence of a herniated disc and nerve  compression, however, is not an automatic indication for surgery.
exercises that put the lower  back under pressure should be avoided until the back muscles are well toned.
a myelogram is an x-ray of the spine that requires a spinal  injection and the need to lie still for several hours to avoid a very painful  headache.
it employs lasers to locate the likely source of pain and  remove diseased tissue with minimal complications.
nonetheless, experts believe there is a useful role for these drugs that warrants further investigation.
supportive back belts, braces, or corsets may help some people  temporarily, but they can reduce muscle tone over time and should be used only  briefly.
antidepressants some experts suggest that treating people with low back pain and depression for the psychological condition may be more beneficial and cost-effective than back treatments.
the disease is more common in men, but about 30% of the cases are in women.
these exercises combine low-impact physical movements and meditation.
non surgical procedures include spinal manipulation, massage therapy, and physical therapy.
according to these studies, contraction exercises specifically  designed to retrain these muscles may be effective for patients with both acute  and chronic pain.
it is important that any serious medical causes as well as  cauda equina syndrome and progressive nerve damage be ruled out first.
the pain can vary widely, from a mild tingling to pain, to a dull ache, to a burning sensation, to pain severe enough to cause immobility.
employers and workers, however, should make every effort to create a safe working environment.
stress reducing techniques, including relaxation  methods and meditation, may be helpful.
north american spine society 22 calendar ct.
each then passes down the hip and along the back of the thigh to  the foot.
theoretically, they may even have properties that produce less adverse effects  on cartilage than nsaids may have.
in  addition, any substance that can affect the body's chemistry can, like any  drug, produce side effects that may be harmful.
herbal remedies for back pain may include relaxants such as black haw (viburnum prunifolium) or valerian (valeriana officinalis), anti-inflammatories such as turmeric (curcuma longa) or arnica montana (for external use only), circulatory stimulants such as gingko biloba or rosemary, and pain relievers such as white willow bark (salix alba).
while sitting, the  knees should be a little higher than the hip, so a low stool or hassock is  useful to put the feet on.
pain studies now suggest  that more patients have chronic back pain than previously believed.
what are treatments for severe low back pain (herniated disc  or spinal stenosis)?
- be sure to have a firm mattress.
patients should be aware of and avoid certain approaches that are not helpful and, in some cases may be harmful for acute low back pain: - bed rest.
exhale on the way up and inhale on the way down.
lack of exercise leads to the following conditions that may threaten the back: - muscle inflexibility (can restrict the back's ability to move, rotate, and bend).
this association believes that chiropracty  should be limited to treating joint conditions using scientific prinicples.
- stand up without bending forward from the waist.
more research is needed.
drugs for prevention of nsaid-induced ulcers.
the frequency, duration, and the nature of the pain (eg, whether it is  dull, piercing, throbbing, or burning).
it should be strongly noted that the presence of psychological  factors in no way diminishes the reality of the pain and its disabling effects.
one-third of adults over 20 show evidence of herniated discs (although only 3% of these discs cause symptoms).
this age-related condition is the major source of chronic low back pain.
falling is a risk for patients with spinal stenosis.
improper exercise instruction and inattention to mechanics can be sources  of sudden trouble.
general approach for uncomplicated acute low back pain or sciatica
the general approach is  the following: patients with no indication of any serious underlying cause should stay  as active as possible within the limits of the back pain.
please note that most treatment modalities listed below are based on conventional medicine.
history or chronic use of corticosteroids.
experts increasingly believe, then, that low back pain associated with disc abnormalities may result from factors other then compressed nerves.
those who over-respond to pain tend to feel out of control and become discouraged, increasing their risk for long-term problems.
the back of the seat should be reclined not more than 30° and, if possible, the seat bottom should be tilted slightly up in front.
misoprostol is a prostaglandin, the protective  substance blocked by nsaid use.
- cases of cauda equina syndrome, in which an emergency operation may need to be performed to avoid permanent damage.
it is advised  only for selected patients.
simply letting pain be the guide is the best approach for achieving movement.
- lift using the leg muscles, not those in the back.
other risk factors smokers are at higher risk for back problems, perhaps because smoking decreases blood circulation, but the association may also be due to an unhealthy lifestyle in general.
at some point in this process, any  disruption, such as a minor injury that results in disc inflammation, can cause  impingement on the nerve root and trigger pain.
inside each disc is a jelly-like substance called the nucleus pulposus , which is surrounded by a tough, fibrous shell called theannulus.
studies in 2000 and 2001 reported that botox relieved  pain by at least half in between 60% and 78% of patients compared to between  12% and 28% who reported the same benefit from placebo.
massage therapy may be helpful for pain that has persisted for more  than three weeks.
although either procedure often brings immediate relief from pain, a 1999 statistical study suggested that it is inappropriately performed in 60% or more of sciatica cases.
massage therapy to date, no strong studies  have been conducted to verify the effects of massage therapy.
by identifying the real cause  of cavities why is glycemic load more significant than  glycemic index?
injections of botulinum toxin (botox) in the lower back  are under investigation.
acupuncture has not proven to have any value for acute low back pain in most patients, but may provide some help for patients with chronic low back pain.
sciatica at some time, up to 40% of people experience pain, known assciatica, which occurs when the sciatic nerve is trapped or inflamed.
in fact there is some evidence that patients  can experience a rebound effect within a few months and the pain returns.
keep the knees bent and the lower back flat on the floor while raising the shoulders up three to six inches.
partial sit-ups or crunches strengthen the abdominal muscles.
one study of extracts of  harpagophytum (a south african herb commonly called devil's claw or grapple  plant) showed some promise.
in such cases, pain occurs on arching the back or when walking.
where else can information about low back pain be obtained?
over time increase this exercise until it is held for five seconds.
they should be conducted without strain or stretching.
a 2000 analysis of studies report that either tens or pens appears to offer some relief for chronic low back pain, at least temporarily.
the nerves may become pinched, causing pain and in advanced cases, numbness and muscle weakness.
- physical therapy or spinal manipulations may be helpful if pain continues for more than two weeks.
one study found that although severe back  pain comprised only 10% of workers compensation cases it accounted for 86% of  compensation costs.
call (206-547-6409) or on the internet (http://dasnet02.dokkyomed.ac.jp/iaspm/iasp.html)
piriformis syndrome
all rights  reserved.
piroxicam (feldene), naproxen (aleve), and indomethacin (indocin) appear to pose the greatest risks for high blood pressure.
for example, anticoagulants can cause bleeding or an internal bruise.
this procedure is also being investigated for disks that have tears in the annular rings.
low-impact aerobic exercises, such  as swimming, bicycling, and walking, can strengthen muscles in the abdomen and  back without over-straining the back.
men and women are  equally at risk.
although studies are mixed on the effects of company interventions, one analysis suggested that they do have a positive effect.
within six months,  however, some research suggests that 40% of patients experience another bout of  back pain.
some experts believe  that one cause of sciatica pain is the entrapment of the sciatic nerve deep in  the buttock by thepiriformis muscle.
- sitting puts the most pressure on the back.
the longer a  person is on such jobs, the higher the risk.
the gene is normally involved in producing collagen, the protein building block in all structural tissue in the body.
early  reports are promising, but use is not yet widespread and long-term risks and  benefits are unknown.
experts increasingly believe, then, that low back pain associated with disc  abnormalities may result from factors other then compressed nerves.
most of the body's weight and stress falls on the lumbar  vertebrae.
- bend at the knees; tighten stomach muscles and tuck buttocks in so that the pelvis is rolled under and the small of the back is flexed slightly.
researchers believe that in most cases it is hereditary.
in one 2000 study, ranitidine and famotidine were associated with a lower risk for bleeding in patients taking nsaids, but another study found no protection from cimetidine.
- the use of cox-2 inhibitors can interfere with many other drugs taken concurrently, including many taken for heart disease and high blood pressure.
- history or chronic use of corticosteroids.
resources for injured workers:http://www.workerscompensationinsurance.com.
the practitioner grasps the exposed shoulder and either the hip or knee  and then presses the upper and lower portions of the body in opposite  directions, so that the torso rotates.
- often this results in a greater sense of ease and mobility.
the disc is 80% water.
[for more information see the report fibromyalgia.]
one 2000 study observed that the cox-2 inhibitors had some adverse  effects on kidney function, particularly in elderly people, that were similar  to the effects of standard nsaids.
unfortunately, the strongest evidence to date suggests that, in general,  acupuncture does not have a major effect on low back pain.
pain accompanied by fever can indicate an infection.
if back pain has continued beyond five weeks, physical therapy is used  for rehabilitation.
studies, in fact, indicate that at least 40% of all adults have bulging or protruding vertebrae discs, and most have no  back pain.
and yet another study  reported that low rank, low social support, and high stress in soldiers was  associated with a higher risk for disabling back pain.
in the older adults, osteoporosis and osteoarthritis are also common.
spinal manipulations are typically performed by chiropractors but osteopathic doctors also perform them.
the way a patient perceives and copes with pain at  the beginning of an acute attack may actually condition the patient to either  recover or develop a chronic condition.
bend at the knees; tighten stomach muscles and tuck buttocks in so that  the pelvis is rolled under and the small of the back is flexed slightly.
call  (301-495-4484 )
controversy exists over whether  on-going manipulations after a first visit work any better for relieving pain  than simply gradually resuming normal activity.
when osteoarthritis affects the spine, it may damage the cartilage  in the discs, the moving joints of the spine, or both.
lying curled up in a fetal position with a pillow between the knees or lying on the back with a pillow under the knees may help.
some physicians are approaching the problem as they would  any chronic illness, one that is not necessarily curable and that needs a  consistent on-going approach.
if common pain relievers, such as nsaids are not  effective, narcotic agents may be needed for a limited period.
pressure on a weakened disc may cause it to rupture so the nucleus  pulposus protrudes out from the spinal column, a condition known as a herniated disc.
(often, the patient cannot describe an  event that produced the pain.)
their use has been demonstrated to reduce nsaid-ulcer rates by as much as 80% compared with no treatment.
take a warm bath before bedtime, and practice relaxation techniques.
never be sick again: understanding disease email address back pain and sciatica *
what are the treatments for chronic back pain of unknown causes?
sometimes heat or electro-therapies are employed, although their benefits are unproven.
psychologic and social factors psychological factors are known to play a strong influential role in three  phases of low back pain: onset of pain.
patients with heart disease who are  taking low-dose aspirin should continue it even while they are taking cox-2  inhibitors.
the positive benefits of exercise not only  affect strength and flexibility but they also alter and improve the patients'  attitudes toward their disability and pain.
nonetheless,  experts believe there is a useful role for these drugs that warrants further  investigation.
the international chiropractors' association still advocates 19th century principles of relating pinched nerves to overall health.)
weak stomach muscles (can increase the strain on the back and can cause  an abnormal tilt of the pelvis).
for people who need to take  nsaids regularly, some agents are available that may protect against bleeding  and ulcers.
this procedure is also being investigated for disks that  have tears in the annular rings.
one study, in fact, reported that in patients with existing back  problems, the fear of pain was actually more disabling than the pain itself.
in general, normal activity should be resumed in a gradual fashion as  soon as the patient feels ready, reserving therapeutic exercises until after  the acute pain has resolved.
- intravenous drug use.
nevertheless, there is a  strong movement within the practice aimed at a scientific and realistic  approach.
between 60% and 90% of the population experience back pain at one time or another during their lifetimes.
some exercise programs used  for prevention or for chronic low back pain include the following: low impact aerobic exercises.
please review ourcopyright policy for full details.
- lie on the back with knees bent and legs together.
awaits msg lurks as a slow poison in common food items  without knowing avoid ice creams with toxic ingredients cure tooth decay naturally
juvenile chronic arthropathy.
this age-related condition  is the major source of chronic low back pain.
the effect of high-impact exercise on the back is not entirely clear.
a number of conditions may make people more or less susceptible to low back pain from such events.
- in some cases they are asked to walk on a treadmill to test for weakness in toe or heel walking (which may indicate stenosis).
some workers wear back support  belts, but evidence strongly suggests that they are useful only for people who  are currently suffering from low back pain.
lowest risk: nabumetone (relafen), etodolac (lodine), salsalate, and  sulindac (clinoril).
lying curled up in a fetal position with a pillow  between the knees or lying on the back with a pillow under the knees may help.
the shifting vertebrae make a cracking or popping sound, indicating that  they have exceeded the normal range of motion.
stand as close as possible to the object being lifted.
each of the two branches of the sciatic nerve is about as wide as a thumb.
as examples, a single jerky golf swing or incorrect use of  exercise equipment (especially free weights, nautilus, and rowing machines) can  cause serious back injuries.
- many people find that alternating ice packs and heating pads is helpful in relieving the pain.
according to a 2001 review of studies, only intensive programs that include psychologic as well physical rehabilitation therapies were successful in reducing and improving function in patients with chronic low back pain.
indications for surgery the rate of all types of back surgery is more than 40% higher in the us than in any other country.
some h2 blockers may help prevent nsaid-induced ulcers.
perform this exercise slowly eight to ten times with the arms across the chest.
in fact, in some people the tensed back muscles may be protecting the damaged disc or vertebrae, in which case medication to relax them could be harmful.
history of urinary tract infection.
corticosteroid injections may be helpful for some patients.
vioxx may pose a  higher risk for symptoms than celebrex.
awaken your brain: coming alive to  vibrant well-being and a new reality free energy is an  absolute imperative for the future of the earth and humanity how dangerous is fluoride to your health?
according to a 2001 review of studies, only intensive programs that include  psychologic as well physical rehabilitation therapies were successful in  reducing and improving function in patients with chronic low back pain.
proton pump inhibitors are possibly the most protective agents and can actually heal existing ulcers.
injections of botulinum toxin (botox) in the lower back are under investigation.
these conditions can include ulcers, kidney disease (including kidney stones), ovarian cysts, and pancreatitis.
the use of common pain relievers, such as nsaids, physical therapy, and steroid or other spinal injections may be helpful for some patients.
for example a 2001 study  comparing massage therapy with traditional chinese medical acupuncture and  self-care found massage to be more effective than either at ten weeks and it  produced significantly better results than the acupuncture after a year.
many experts now believe that relying on images of disc abnormalities to determine treatment has resulted in many unnecessary surgeries.
it employs lasers to locate the likely source of pain and remove diseased tissue with minimal complications.
in 1990, it cost the us $23 billion in direct medical costs and  possibly as much as $85 billion in total costs (such as lost productivity.
hold for 20 seconds.
not all are available
american physical therapy association, 1111 n. fairfax st., alexandra, va 22314-1148.
chairs should either have straight backs or low-back support.
postoperative period: complications and outlook many patients still have back pain after discectomy that delays discharge from the hospital.
corticosteroid  injections may be helpful for some patients.
over the years, the disc can degenerate and produce low-grade inflammation and irritation.
by four years after surgery, however, 30%  of patients have severe pain again and 10% have had another operation.
others believe there is no real evidence that this condition, known as piriformis syndrome, causes any sciatic pain.
similarly, another study found that pilots (who generally reported "loving" their jobs) reported far fewer back problems than their flight crews.
surgery can be an extremely effective approach,  however, for certain patients with severe back pain that does not respond to  conservative measures.
genetic factors inherited spinal structure abnormalities.
the primary indication for surgery is the following: pain that has existed for over four months, has not responded to conservative treatments, and is so debilitating that it interferes with normal functioning.
one study found that although severe back pain comprised only 10% of workers compensation cases it accounted for 86% of compensation costs.
alcohol abuse may increase the risk for gi bleeding when taking nsaids.
mild and temporary side effects from spinal manipulation are common.
procedures that block nerves in the pelvic area may be used in severe cases.
it should be noted that surgery does not always improve outcome and in some cases can even make it worse.
the specific goal of chiropractors is to perform spinal manipulations  to improve nerve transmission.
fibromyalgia (also called fibrositis or fibromyositis) is a syndrome that causes chronic, sometimes debilitating muscle pain and fatigue.
one 2001 study indicated that  patients who undergo surgery for moderate to severe sciatica have somewhat  better improvement in symptoms after five years than those who receive  nonsurgical treatments.
tips for daily movement and inactivity the  way a person moves, stands, or sleeps during the day plays a major role in back  pain: maintaining good posture is very important.
unless the pain is very severe, experts advise against routinely prescribing pain killers containing opioids (eg, morphine, codeine, meperidine [demerol], oxycodone [oxycontin], or tramadol).
provocative discometry is a test that uses an injection of saline solution into the suspected disc to reproduce the pain, which is then followed by injection of an anesthetic to dull the pain.
(for example, the best spinal stenosis candidates  are those with a condition known as block spinal stenosis.)
[see box ulcers and gastrointestinal bleeding .] increased blood pressure.
in one study, therapists also taught relaxation techniques and  methods to improve posture.
muscular abnormalities some research is  suggesting that some people have motor control abnormalities in the deep  muscles near the spine.
never be  sick again: understanding disease email address back pain and sciatica *
one 1999 study even found the rate of gi problems with celecoxib was equal to that in people who do not take nsaids at all.
it requires injections into discs suspected of being the source of pain and discs nearby.
- never twist from the waist while bending or lifting any heavy object.
small recent  ones, however, have indicated that it is as effective as spinal manipulation  and more effective than acupuncture or self-care.
(other side effects found with short-term use include headache, and dizziness.)
(the other two chiropractice organizations are more controversial and tend  toward alternative treatments.
- studies have reported that mris miss between 6% and 23% of damaged discs that were revealed during surgery.
it should be strongly noted that incorrect movements or long-term high-impact exercise is a cause of back pain.
very severe pain, numbness.
it should be strongly noted, however, that  serious complications (including stroke or spinal cord or neck injury) have  been reported with manipulations of theneck.
- medium risk: diclofenac (voltaren), ibuprofen (motrin, advil, nuprin, rufen), aspirin, naproxen (aleve, naprosyn, naprelan, anaprox), and tolmetin (tolectin).
it is is proving to be very helpful for back pain in the  acute and chronic phases.
studies, in fact, indicate that at least 40% of all adults have bulging or protruding vertebrae discs, and most have no back pain.
this means keeping the ears,  shoulders, and hips in a straight line with the head up and stomach pulled in.
a small pillow or rolled towel behind the lower back helps relieve pressure while either sitting or driving.
osteoarthritis osteoarthritis occurs in  joints where cartilage is damaged and then destroyed.
the spinal cord is the central trunk of nerves that connects the brain with the rest of the body.
within six months, however, some research suggests that 40% of patients experience another bout of back pain.
spinal manipulations are typically performed by chiropractors but  osteopathic doctors also perform them.
what is the role of exercise and movement in low back pain?
sit and reach test assess your active and resting metabolic rate calculate your real age & life expectancy
call (916) 632-0922 or on the internet (http://www.theacpa.org/) national chronic pain outreach association.
studies show, for example,  that short-term use of naproxen is twice as likely as ibuprofen to be  associated with hospitalization from gi bleeding.
this is a particular problem for those on  medications to reduce hypertension.
if results are inconclusive, either computed tomography (ct) or magnetic resonance imaging (mri) may be performed.
some experts argue, however, that it is not clear which patients would benefit from them.
small recent ones, however, have indicated that it is as effective as spinal manipulation and more effective than acupuncture or self-care.
one 2001 study indicated that patients who undergo surgery for moderate to severe sciatica have somewhat better improvement in symptoms after five years than those who receive nonsurgical treatments.
(one 1999 study  reported that 70% of cyclists reported improvement simply by adjusting the  angle of the bicycle seat.)
pregnancy pregnant women are prone to back pain due to a shifting of abdominal organs, the forward redistribution of body weight, and the loosening of ligaments in the pelvic area as the body prepares for delivery.
call (202-690-9000) for general information on exercise and fitness.
the spinal and transverse  processes attach to the muscles in the back and act like little levers,  allowing the spine to twist or bend.
genetic factors inherited spinal  structure abnormalities.
in older people, low back pain may be a sign of paget's disease or parkinson's.
call (301-495-4484 ) or on the internet (http://www.nih.gov/niams/) national institute for occupational safety and health (niosh), 4676 columbia parkway, cincinnati oh 45226.
spinal abnormalities identified by mris often do not predict long-term problems.
call (800-356-4674) or on the internet ( http://www.cdc.gov/niosh/homepage.html)
in addition, the general direction of osteopathy over the  years has widened to employ a broader range of treatments that now approach  those of standard medicine.
among the conditions that cause back pain in  children are the following: spondylolytis are stress fractures in the spine.
this is an inherited form of arthritis that can cause pain in the sacrum and hip joints of children and young people.
it  is commonly believed that that low back pain most often occurs if this material extrudes (that is, it balloons into the area outside the vertebrae or  breaks off from the disc) far enough out to press against the nerve root, most  often the sciatic nerve.
none of these  substances cure the problem.
(none of these approaches, however, offered complete relief.)
aging process intervertebral discs begin deteriorating and growing thinner by age 30.
miscellaneous abnormalities a number of conditions that affect the joints, vertebrae, or nerve roots can cause back pain: - spondylolisthesis is a condition in which one vertebra has slipped forward over the other.
ulcers and gastrointestinal bleeding.
addiction is a risk, although less than is commonly believed when these medications are used for pain relief.
vertebral axial decompression vertebral axial decompression (vax-d) is proving to reduce pain and improve function in patients wwith chronic low back pain.
although little research  has been done on such complications, an english survey indicated that they are  more frequent than commonly thought.
benign tumors (eg, osteoblastoma or neurofibroma).
some experts believe that less than 1% of back pain patients need aggressive medical or surgical treatments.
this typically develops as a person ages and the  discs become drier and start to shrink.
acute low back pain lasts less than a month and is not caused by serious  medical conditions.
corticosteroids reduce inflammation and this approach may short-cut sciatic pain until the body heals itself.
studies that measure the benefits of steroids on sciatica or low back pain, however, are conflicting.
in spite of their promise, some researchers theorize that inhibiting cox-2 may have some negative side effects over the long term: more research is needed to confirm or refute any possible hazard.
sitting puts the most pressure on the back.
- spinal stenosis stabilizes in about 70% of cases and worsens in 15%.
it protects against the major intestinal toxicity of nsaids.
very small amounts of the bacterial toxin temporarily paralyze muscle tissue.
or on the internet (http://dasnet02.dokkyomed.ac.jp/iaspm/iasp.html)
- a myelogram is an x-ray of the spine that requires a spinal injection and the need to lie still for several hours to avoid a very painful headache.
increasingly, research is focusing on tears in the  annular ring, which is the fibrous band that surrounds and protects the disc.
at the onset of acute low back pain when the cause is unknown the following tips may be helpful: treatments that provide no benefits - although bed rest is no longer recommended, the patient should stop normal physical activities for the first couple of days in order to calm symptoms.
the participants experienced no adverse effects.
some patients may require spinal fusion as well.
studies report only a  weak association between obesity and low back pain, however.
specific conditions can determine the rate of improvement: - in the majority of patients with herniated disks, the condition improves (although the actual physical improvement may be slower than the reduction in pain.)
improper or intense exercise
chiropractic or osteopathy.
chronic low back pain persists beyond six months.
central nervous system abnormalities after episodes of back pain, some people may experience changes in brain function that lead them to experience chronic back pain.
in nearly all cases of early back pain, however,  plain x-rays offer no benefit for diagnosis or determining treatment unless a  specific underlying cause is suspected.
three-dimensional ct scans and mri refinements may soon  make diagnosis more accurate.
call (540-862-9437) american pain society, 4700 w. lake  avenue, glenview, il 60025.
if it is necessary, walk as  much as possible and wear shoes without heels, preferably with cushioned soles.
one study reported that the operation in children and young adults can increase the risk for spinal deformity.
in any case, neither approach appears to be helpful for relief of acute low back pain in most patients.
low back pain is second only to upper respiratory infections (such as colds and flus) as the reason for seeing a doctor.
hogwash alert: one flu shot to protect all humans from all flu strains for ten years?
american chronic pain association, p.o. box 850, rocklin, ca 95677.
a previous accident or injury that might have affected the back.
hold this  position for about 20 seconds (while breathing evenly) and then repeat on the  other side.
the practitioner grasps the exposed shoulder and either the hip or knee and then presses the upper and lower portions of the body in opposite directions, so that the torso rotates.
cauda equina syndrome cauda equina syndrome  is the impingement of the cauda equina (the four strands of nerves leading  through the lowest part of the spine) and can have severe complications in the  bowel or bladder.
call (202-690-9000) for general  information on exercise and fitness.
- hyperlordosis is an inborn exaggerated inward curve in the lumbar area.
in one study, the device was successful in  72% of patients, reducing pain without any loss of muscle strength or function.
on the other hand, some people have experienced morning backache from a mattress that is too hard.
according to these studies, contraction exercises specifically designed to retrain these muscles may be effective for patients with both acute and chronic pain.
[see box ulcers and gastrointestinal bleeding .] - increased blood pressure.
importantly, studies are reporting a lower incidence of  ulcers and other toxic side effects in patients taking the cox-2 inhibitors  than in those taking nsaids.
studies suggest that a third of patients with uncomplicated low  back pain are significantly improved after a week with no other treatment than  normal activity and two thirds have recovered by seven weeks.
the emotional effects of such  connections may be as important for healing as the treatments themselves.
it should be noted that even with the best treatments, patients with  chronic back pain may not experience complete pain relief and may need to  develop methods for improving daily life in the face of some persistent pain.
president's council on physical fitness and sports, department w, 200 independence ave., s.w., room 738-h, washington, dc 20201-0004.
in patients with herniated discs, non surgical  methods should be used for at least a month before considering surgery.
the particular processes form the joints between the vertebrae themselves, meeting together and interlocking at the facet joints.
jobs  that involve lifting and forceful movements, bending and twisting into awkward  positions, and whole-body vibration (usually caused by long-distance truck  driving) place workers at particular risk for low back pain.
although ketoprofen (actron, orudis kt) was considered a medium-risk drug, another study reported that even one week of taking the drug at low doses causes significant gi injury.
the physician may also touch parts of the body  lightly with a pin, cotton swab, or feather to test for numbness and nerve  sensitivity.
lumbar degenerative disc disease.
because nsaids reduce the clotting of the blood, anyone undergoing surgery should stop taking the medication a week before the operation.
- endoscopic laser foraminoplasty (elf) is a minimally-invasive procedure that is proving to be effective and to have fewer complications than other spinal surgeries.
- hold objects close to the body to reduce the load on the back.
they showed greater improvement in nearly every area, including reduced pain and increased capacity, compared to patients who did not exercise.
some research suggests that over time, it may increase the risk for degenerative disc disease.
(one study compared celecoxib with the nsaids ibuprofen or diclofenac and  the other compared rofecoxib with the nsaid naproxen.)
some people experience sharp pain in  one part of the leg or hip and numbness in other parts.
transcutaneous electric nerve stimulation (tens) uses  low-level electrical pulses to suppress back pain.
one-third of adults over 20 show  evidence of herniated discs (although only 3% of these discs cause symptoms).
be sure to breathe evenly.
conditions that cause back pain in children persistent low back pain in children is more likely to have a serious cause  that requires treatment than back pain in adults.
these agents block  prostaglandins, the substances that dilate blood vessels and cause inflammation  and pain.
certain antidepressants,  called tricyclics, can even be effective pain killers innon-depressed people with chronic back pain.
for long rides, one should stop and walk around about every hour and avoid lifting or carrying objects immediately after the ride.
in rare cases, bone scintigraphy and single photon emission computed tomography (spect) may be used, such as when bone abnormalities are suspected from conditions that include spinal fracture, cancer that has spread to the bone, or osteoarthritis.
the physician may measure the circumference of the calves and thighs to  look for muscle deterioration.
a herniated  disc pressing on the sciatic nerve is the most common cause of this problem,  although spinal stenosis or other vertebral abnormalities that press on the  sciatic nerve can also cause pain.
it may take four to six weeks for full recovery.
vertebrae in the spinal column are separated from each other by small cushions of cartilage known asintervertebral discs .
pregnancy pregnant women are prone to back  pain due to a shifting of abdominal organs, the forward redistribution of body  weight, and the loosening of ligaments in the pelvic area as the body prepares  for delivery.
general approach to severe low back pain early stage.
(heat or cold treatments do not have much effect on sciatica.)
it used to be grouped under juvenile rheumatoid arthritis but is now defined as a separate problem.
patients often take pain-relievers, particularly nsaids,  although they can have severe effects on the gastrointestinal tract over time.
highest risk: flurbiprofen (ansaid), piroxicam (feldene), fenoprofen, indomethacin (indocin), meclofenamate (meclomen), and oxaprozin.
they offer little added support for the back and do not prevent back injuries.
the patient may also experience muscle spasms and diminished mobility.
this effect can also trigger fluid build up and high blood pressure.
do not  arch the back.
the benefits of surgery decrease over time, however.
this is a particular problem for those on medications to reduce hypertension.
although ketoprofen (actron,  orudis kt) was considered a medium-risk drug, another study reported that even  one week of taking the drug at low doses causes significant gi injury.
for treating short-term acute low back pain, the best results derive from the least aggressive treatments.
discectomy is the surgical removal of the diseased disc, thereby relieving pressure on the spine.
the following website is  building a database of natural remedy brands that it tests and rates.
acupuncture is now a common  alternative treatment for certain kinds of pain.
the back should be straight.
what are low back  pain and sciatica?
this is an inherited form of arthritis that  can cause pain in the sacrum and hip joints of children and young people.
surgical treatments for low back pain rose from 190,000 in 1983 to  335,000 in 1994.
interestingly, standard medical treatments hadworse results than both chiropractic and sham treatments.)
there have been a number of reported cases of serious and even lethal side effects from herbal products.
endoscopy employs a catheter (a thin tube) that contains tiny cameras and surgical instruments that are inserted through small incisions.
physical therapy typically includes the  following: the first stage involves patient education and training the patient in  correct movement.
exhale  on the way up and inhale on the way down.
herbal remedies for back pain may include relaxants  such as black haw (viburnum prunifolium) or valerian (valeriana officinalis),  anti-inflammatories such as turmeric (curcuma longa) or arnica montana (for  external use only), circulatory stimulants such as gingko biloba or rosemary,  and pain relievers such as white willow bark (salix alba).
american chiropractors' association stresses  vitamins and natural diets as well as joint conditioning.
in one 2000 study, ranitidine and famotidine were associated with a lower risk  for bleeding in patients taking nsaids, but another study found no protection  from cimetidine.
such exercises include leg lifts done in a prone (face-down) position, straight  leg sit-ups, and leg curls using exercise equipment.
physical examination the main objectives of  a physical examination are to attempt to locate the specific location of the  pain source and to determine limits of movement: patients are asked to sit, stand, and walk in different ways  (flat-footed, on the toes, and on their heels).
those who over-respond to pain tend to  feel out of control and become discouraged, increasing their risk for long-term  problems.
vioxx may pose a higher risk for symptoms than celebrex.
it is is proving to be very helpful for back pain in the acute and chronic phases.
a patient should be sure  that the surgeon has had significant experience with any procedure to be  performed.
surgery can be an extremely effective approach, however, for certain patients with severe back pain that does not respond to conservative measures.
long-term steroid use can cause infection or compression fractures.
in one study, for example,  patients with back pain lasting for an average of 18 months were assigned eight  one-hour exercise sessions over four weeks.
- problems with urination or defecation (symptom of cauda equina syndrome).
pain lasts for a month, and is accompanied by unexplained fever or weight  loss.
all drug information is for your reference  only and readers are strongly encouraged to research healthier alternatives to  any drug therapies listed.
newer agents called cox-2 inhibitors may have fewer effects on the gi tract,  but their long-term safety is unknown.
- benign tumors (eg, osteoblastoma or neurofibroma).
the sessions were two and a half hours each week  for 12 weeks.
- spread your feet apart to give a wide base of support.
north  american spine society 22 calendar ct.
2nd floor lagrange, il 60525 phone:  (708) 588-8080 fax: (708) 588-1080http://www.spine.org/ american  physical therapy association 1111 north fairfax st. alexandria, va 22314-1488  phone: (703) 684-2782 toll-free: (800) 999-2782 fax: (703) 684-7343 http://www.apta.org/ arthritis foundation 1330 west peachtree st.  atlanta, ga 30309 phone: (404) 872-7100
evidence of some physical abnormality of the spine, such as a bone spur.
however, the risk for low back pain does not mount steadily with ever-increasing age, which suggests that at a certain point, the conditions causing low back pain plateau.
one study, in fact, reported that in patients with existing back problems, the fear of pain was actually more disabling than the pain itself.
pain accompanied by fever (possible infection).
- the facets can become misaligned or deteriorate.
reasons are as follows: -
- weakness or numbness in buttocks, genital area, or thigh.
because nsaids reduce the clotting of the  blood, anyone undergoing surgery should stop taking the medication a week  before the operation.
nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (nsaids) the most commonly prescribed medications for the treatment of chronic back  pain are nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (nsaids).
the primary indication for surgery is the  following: pain that has existed for over four months, has not  responded to conservative treatments, and is so debilitating that it interferes  with normal functioning.
american chronic pain  association, p.o. box 850, rocklin, ca 95677.
these arches,  aligned to run down the spine, form the spinal canal, which encloses the spinal  cord.
the pain increases after prolonged standing or sitting.
proton-pump inhibitors include omeprazole (prilosec), lansoprazole  (prevacid), rabeprazole (aciphex), and pantoprozole.
keeping arms at the sides, slowly roll the knees over to one side until totally relaxed.
general approach for uncomplicated acute low back pain or  sciatica
(possible indication of a tumor particularly in people with a history of cancer).
regular use of even over-the-counter nsaids  may be hazardous for anyone and has been associated with the following side  effects:
ankylosing spondylitis ankylosing spondylitis is a chronic inflammation of the spine that may gradually result in a fusion of the spine.
the facets can become misaligned or deteriorate.
it requires a substantial post-operative recovery  period, but may prove to be a less invasive alternative to surgery.
one study suggested that any benefits  derived from flexibility exercises are lost unless the exercise regimens are  sustained.
illustrations  of back surgery site has good description of back procedures ( http://www.spine-surgery.com) another site with good descriptions of  back operations (http://www.yoursurgery.com) viewer relations about us | contact us | write  for us | advertise | services | media inquires | terms and conditions |
(even when not lifting an object, always try to use this posture  when stooping down).
patients taking anticoagulant drugs may experience a higher risk for  bleeding with the use of these agents.
permanent bipolar magnets have gained some popularity as  a non-invasive method of relieving pain.
there are dozens of nsaids.
(for example, the best spinal stenosis candidates are those with a condition known as block spinal stenosis.)
(even when not lifting an object, always try to use this posture when stooping down).
and, sciatica pain is sometimes present when there is no bulging or extruding of the discs.
(it is not clear, however, whether fusion  is any more effective for stenosis or spondylolisthesis than procedures for  reducing disc pressure.)
in fact, in one study workers who wore the belt for prevention reported more back pain than the workers who didn't wear them.
- the timing of back pain (whether it occurs at night or during the day).
symptoms of the syndrome include the following: - dull back pain.
studies are reporting a higher incidence of heart attacks in patients  taking vioxx and possibly celebrex than in those taking the standard nsaid  naproxen.
other risk factors smokers are at higher  risk for back problems, perhaps because smoking decreases blood circulation,  but the association may also be due to an unhealthy lifestyle in general.
conditions that cause back pain in children persistent low back pain in children is more likely to have a serious cause that requires treatment than back pain in adults.
one medical device uses a tiny hollow metal cage, which is implanted into the disc space.
they should be conducted without strain or  stretching.
studies in 2000 and 2001 reported that botox relieved pain by at least half in between 60% and 78% of patients compared to between 12% and 28% who reported the same benefit from placebo.
riding and particularly driving for long periods in a vehicle increases  stress.
nevertheless, they pose a lower risk for complications than major surgery and some experts urge they be used for selected patients.
and the improvement is superior to that from nonsurgical treatments for about four years in most patients.
the role of physical therapy physical therapy with a trained professional may be useful if pain has not improved within the first three weeks.
they include amitriptyline (elavil, endep),  desipramine (norpramin), doxepin (sinequan), imipramine (tofranil), amoxapine  (asendin), nortriptyline (pamelor, aventyl), and maprotiline (ludiomill).
high-risk occupations
each vertebra in the spine has a number  of bony projections, known asprocesses.
it requires injections into  discs suspected of being the source of pain and discs nearby.
(in one study, recovery from acute back pain was slower for patients who  immediately embarked on flexibility exercises than for those who gradually  resumed normal activity.)
- patients will be asked to lift their leg straight up while lying down.
warning signs for serious underlying problems certain warning signs should alert a patient to see a physician  immediately for low back pain.
the most common reasons for surgery for low back  pain are sciatica and spinal stenosis.
muscle relaxants may be helpful in some patients.
it protects against the major intestinal  toxicity of nsaids.
(bed rest isnot recommended.)
for additional, updated information on osha's ergonomics rule, visit "the clipping file," part of the health &  safety news section of the nycosh website.
in spite of the fact that discectomy has been performed for 40 years, few studies have been conducted to determine its real effectiveness.
physical examination the main objectives of a physical examination are to attempt to locate the specific location of the pain source and to determine limits of movement: - patients are asked to sit, stand, and walk in different ways (flat-footed, on the toes, and on their heels).
nonsurgical treatments.
more importantly, evidence now strongly suggests that the degree of disc  abnormalities revealed by mris have very little to do with the severity of the  pain or the need for surgery.
often this results in a greater sense of ease and mobility.
the column is grouped into three sections of vertebrae: the cervical (c) vertebrae are the seven spinal bones that support  the neck.
the pain usually resolves within six weeks with mild activity.
many medical doctors believe that because low back pain is  self-limited and resolves, the patient can wait for an appointment.
it  may resemble sciatica.
they include amitriptyline (elavil, endep), desipramine (norpramin), doxepin (sinequan), imipramine (tofranil), amoxapine (asendin), nortriptyline (pamelor, aventyl), and maprotiline (ludiomill).
- patients may also experience it after bending backwards or walking more than 50 to 100 yards, particularly if it is caused by spinal stenosis.
- it first branches from the nerve roots that descend off the lowest part of the spinal cord (in the lumbar and sacral areas).
it employs exercises to help the patients keep the spine in neutral positions during all daily activities.
each threads through the pelvis and deep into either side of the buttocks.
what are the treatments for chronic back pain of unknown  causes?
tips for lifting and bending anyone who  engages in heavy lifting should take precautions when lifting and bending: if an object is too heavy or awkward, get help.
in one study, the device was successful in 72% of patients, reducing pain without any loss of muscle strength or function.
- pressure on a weakened disc may cause it to rupture so the nucleus pulposus protrudes out from the spinal column, a condition known as a herniated disc.
invasive surveillance
weak back muscles (may increase the load on the spine and the risk for  disc compression).
to help promote sleep, avoid caffeine in the afternoon and evening.
some workers wear back support belts, but evidence strongly suggests that they are useful only for people who are currently suffering from low back pain.
it should be strongly noted, however, that serious complications (including stroke or spinal cord or neck injury) have been reported with manipulations of theneck.
pregnant women with back pain may find some relief by placing a specially  shaped pillow (eg, ozzlo pillow) under the abdomen while sleeping.
do not arch the back.
- patients with no indication of any serious underlying cause should stay as active as possible within the limits of the back pain.
the risk for bleeding is continuous as long as a patient is on these drugs and may even persist as long as a year after the drug is discontinued.
a procedure called a facet block is also useful in locating areas of specific damage.
any sudden weight gain or swelling  should be reported to a physician.
one 1999 study reported that osteopathy was as  effective as medical treatment in relieving low back pain and patients required  far less medication and physical therapy.
then, extend the legs a little more so that the feet are further away from the body and try it again.
laminectomy or laminotomy operations that shave off part of a  vertebra (laminotomy) or remove all of it (laminectomy) may be used in certain  cases of spinal stenosis or spondylolisthesis to decompress the nerve.
if the physician suspects a serious underlying cause,  the approach to determining the origin of back pain involves answering three  questions: is some general medical disorder present that could be causing the pain?
theoretically, they may even have properties that produce less adverse effects on cartilage than nsaids may have.
- tighten the buttocks and abdomen so that they tip up slightly.
call (703-684-2782) or (800-999-2782) on  the internet (http://www.apta.org/) american academy of orthopaedic  surgeons, 6300 n. river road, rosemont, il 60018-4262.
using specific tasks and  self-observation, patients gradually shift their fixed ideas that they are  helpless against the pain that dominates their lives to the perception that  pain is only one negative and, to a degree, a manageable experience among many  positive ones.
acupuncture has not proven to have any value for acute low  back pain in most patients, but may provide some help for patients with chronic  low back pain.
generally, these  exercises attempt to strengthen the abdomen, improve lower back mobility,  strength, and endurance, and enhance flexibility in the hip and hamstring  muscles and tendons at the back of the thigh.
(sometimes a fracture may not show up for a week or two after an injury.)
awaken your brain: coming alive to vibrant
a survey of people who played tennis, however, found no increased risk for low back pain or sciatica.
the primary goal of cognitive therapy in such cases is to change the distorted perceptions that patients have of themselves and their approach to pain.
- percutaneous discectomy (pad) uses a tube with a device at the tip that cuts away some of the nucleus pulposus and a vacuum that then sucks this gelatinous matter out.
alternative treatments herbal  remedies.
- chronic low back pain persists beyond six months.
is a syndrome that causes chronic, sometimes debilitating muscle pain and  fatigue.
osteoporosis osteoporosis is a disease of  the skeleton in which the amount of calcium present in the bones slowly  decreases to the point where the bones become fragile and prone to fracture.
this is a temporary, not permanent, solution.
symptoms of sciatica  involve the following: the sensation of sciatica is usually experienced along the course of the  sciatic nerve, which travels from the lower back, through the buttock, into the  calf, and sometimes even the foot.
antidepressants some experts suggest that treating people with  low back pain and depression for the psychological condition may be more  beneficial and cost-effective than back treatments.
the physician may also touch parts of the body lightly with a pin, cotton swab, or feather to test for numbness and nerve sensitivity.
the injection is usually an epidural, which is directed into the  spaces between the outer membrane of the spine and the vertebrae.
advanced imaging techniques  should be used only when underlying infection, cancer, or nerve involvement are  suspected.
are the nerves in the spine involved in the pain (such as in sciatica)?
each vertebra and its  processes surround and protect an arch-shaped central opening.
the standard approach is to  give 80 to 100 pulses per second for 45 minutes three times a day.
the use of common pain relievers, such as nsaids,  physical therapy, and steroid or other spinal injections may be helpful for  some patients.
although no definitive studies have been done to prove the relationship between lack of exercise and low back pain, sedentary living is probably a primary nonmedical culprit contributing to this condition.
if it is necessary, walk as much as possible and wear shoes without heels, preferably with cushioned soles.
in fact there is some evidence that patients can experience a rebound effect within a few months and the pain returns.
side effects for all opioids include drowsiness, impaired  judgment, nausea, and constipation.
- over-the-counter pain relievers often provide significant benefits.
the elderly are at special risk.
it may be necessary to take medication to help manage  nighttime pain or treat sleeplessness.
it is best not to stand for long periods of time.
one 1999 study reported that osteopathy was as effective as medical treatment in relieving low back pain and patients required far less medication and physical therapy.
nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (nsaids) the most commonly prescribed medications for the treatment of chronic back pain are nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (nsaids).
a number of companies are developing programs to protect against back injuries.
american physical therapy association, 1111 n.  fairfax st., alexandra, va 22314-1148.
most of the body's weight and stress falls on the lumbar vertebrae.
researchers attempted to identify factors most likely to predict an elevated risk for recurrent pain and found that only depression was a significant factor in the majority of those who had not recovered.
medical history a medical and family history should include heart problems, cancer, arthritis, and any other serious conditions.
[for other nsaids,see box ulcers and gastrointestinal bleeding.]
mris are more accurate  than cts and provide very well-defined images of soft tissue and bone.
transcutaneous electric nerve stimulation.
positive emotional effects.
for example a 2001 study comparing massage therapy with traditional chinese medical acupuncture and self-care found massage to be more effective than either at ten weeks and it produced significantly better results than the acupuncture after a year.
leg strengthening exercises (walking,  cycling) may be helpful, with brief resting if pain occurs.
it should be noted that one study reported that an injected  nsaid after fusion procedures may reduce the chances for successful bone  healing and union.
some evidence  supports its benefits.
in addition, herbal and so-called natural remedies are not regulated, few studies have been conducted on any of these products, and the quality or safety cannot be guaranteed.
by identifying the real cause of cavities why is glycemic load more significant than glycemic index?
each vertebra in the spine has a number of bony projections, known asprocesses.
(pain caused by sciatica can be intensified by lifting the affected leg straight in the air.
whether flexibility exercises alone offer any significant benefit is uncertain.
well-being and a new reality free energy is an absolute imperative for the future of the earth and humanity how dangerous is fluoride to your health?
one study reported that the operation in children and  young adults can increase the risk for spinal deformity.
(some experts believe  ice packs should be applied first.)
resuming normal activity experts now recommend that people with acute low back pain attempt to resume normal activities as soon as possible.
a promising procedure  known as intradiscal electrothermal treatment (idet) employs a probe that uses  electricity to heat the injured disc tissue, specifically the annular ring  nerve fibers.
by four years after surgery, however, 30% of patients have severe pain again and 10% have had another operation.
a number of surgical  techniques are available for relieving pain by impairing nerves that are  causing pain due to impingement.
a 2000 analysis of previous  studies reported that it appeared to offer faster relief than medical  treatment, but long-term superiority is uncertain.
they offer little added support for  the back and do not prevent back injuries.
no one who has allergic reactions, hives, or asthma from sulfa drugs,  aspirin, or other nsaids, should take a cox-2 inhibitor.
it usually develops after an  injury.
long-term drug therapy is very detrimental to human health.
inside each disc is a  jelly-like substance called the nucleus pulposus , which is surrounded  by a tough, fibrous shell called theannulus.
the incidence of low back pain and sciatica increases in women at the time of menopause as they lose bone density.
studies are finding that specific mutations  of the col9a gene may play a role in about 10% of sciatica cases.
in reaction to this  destruction, the bones associated with the joints develop abnormalities.
a skin patch containing an opioid called  transdermal fentanyl (duragesic) may relieve chronic back pain more effectively  than oral opioids.
(it is not clear, however, whether fusion is any more effective for stenosis or spondylolisthesis than procedures for reducing disc pressure.)
imaging techniques imaging techniques such  as x-rays or scans are rarely useful except under certain circumstances that  may include the following: pain that lasts more than a month.
the timing of back pain (whether it occurs at night or during the day).
the sciatic nerve is the one most likely to be affected in  low back pain and has an extensive pathway: it first branches from the nerve roots that descend off the lowest part  of the spinal cord (in the lumbar and sacral areas).
studies that measure the benefits of steroids on sciatica or low back  pain, however, are conflicting.
at that time, the discs are more fluid-filled and more vulnerable to pressure from this movement.
in about 85% of back pain cases, the origin of the pain is unknown and even imaging studies usually fail to determine the cause.
this is also a cause of sciatica.
this typically develops as a person ages and the discs become drier and start to shrink.
it may also be used to remove benign tumors on the spine.
herniated disc and other disc abnormalities disc herniation and disc degeneration due to aging are the most common causes  of low back pain.
they are based on principles of disciplining the mind to achieve a physical and mental balance and can be very helpful in preventing recurrences of lower back pain.
some research suggests that over time, it may increase the risk for  degenerative disc disease.
such exercises include leg lifts done in a prone (face-down) position, straight leg sit-ups, and leg curls using exercise equipment.
exercises  to avoid during recovery.
muscular abnormalities some research is suggesting that some people have motor control abnormalities in the deep muscles near the spine.
sedentary lifestyle people who do not exercise regularly face an increased risk for low back pain, especially during times when they suddenly embark on stressful unaccustomed activity, such as shoveling, digging, or moving heavy items.
toll-free: (800) 283-7800 http://www.arthritis.org/ internet sites the international intradiscal therapy society (iits) (http://www.iits.org) international spinal injection society (http://www.spinalinjection.com/)
although steroid injections had more immediate benefits, both offered improvement, and by three months, patients who had saline injections experienced less pain than the steroid group.
some early evidence also suggests  they may be protective against colon cancer and possibly even alzheimer's  disease.
it  usually does not cause pain unless the vertebrae collapse suddenly, when pain  is often severe.
one in three people with low back pain seek treatment from a  chiropractor.
a history of cancer or other indications of an underlying disease, such  as fever or unexplained weight loss.
in general, early treatments for severe low back pain or for episodes of chronic low back pain are similar to those of acute uncomplicated low back pain, including avoiding bed rest.
- history of urinary tract infection.
pregnant women with back pain may find some relief by placing a specially shaped pillow (eg, ozzlo pillow) under the abdomen while sleeping.
people with hypertension, severe  vascular disease, kidney or liver problems, and those taking diuretics must be  closely monitored if they need to take nsaids.
some evidence suggests that both cox-2 inhibitors may increase the  risk for blood clots.
gentle exercise may be recommended.
addiction is a risk, although less than is  commonly believed when these medications are used for pain relief.
in one 2000 study that used electrical  stimulation to block the nerves, 60% of the patients reported at least 90%  relief of pain after a year, and 87% reported at least 60% relief.
a disc in the lumbar area becomes herniated when it ruptures or thins out and degenerates to the point that the gelatin within the disc protrudes outward.
studies indicate, however, that the incidence of low back pain and sciatica increase around the time of menopause, and very tiny fractures in the vertebrae caused by osteoporosis may be an undetected cause of back pain in many elderly women.
patients now  often remain in bed only three or four days after disc surgery; studies  indicate that such patients have the same or even fewer complications than  those who stay in bed for weeks.
what causes the pain in low back pain or sciatica?
the use of cox-2 inhibitors can interfere with many other drugs taken  concurrently, including many taken for heart disease and high blood pressure.
588-1080http://www.spine.org/ american physical therapy association 1111 north fairfax st. alexandria, va 22314-1488 phone: (703) 684-2782 toll-free: (800) 999-2782 fax: (703) 684-7343 http://www.apta.org/ arthritis foundation 1330 west peachtree st. atlanta, ga 30309 phone: (404) 872-7100
spread your feet apart to give a wide base of support.
anyone who has acupuncture should be sure it is performed in  a reputable location with experienced practitioners who use sterilized  equipment.
- more importantly, evidence now strongly suggests that the degree of disc abnormalities revealed by mris have very little to do with the severity of the pain or the need for surgery.
every year, nearly 15% of american adults visit their doctors because of low back pain episodes.
bleeding and ulcers can occur at any time, with or without symptoms.
research indicates that surgery may have better short-term effects than medical treatment (in terms of immediate employability and functioning), but that in the long-term they are about equal.
pain caused by inflammation is duller  and more generalized and not affected by lifting a straight leg.)
- flexibility exercises.
the pelvic tilt alleviates tight or fatigued lower back muscles.
this regimen should be performed two or  three times during the day.
it may  also be used to remove benign tumors on the spine.
many medical doctors believe that because low back pain is self-limited and resolves, the patient can wait for an appointment.
osteopathic treatment was also far  less expensive.
the longer a person is on such jobs, the higher the risk.
if these conditions  exist, usually an x-ray is used first.
if pain persists, then x-rays are usually warranted.
it can be painful  and is generally only used for patients who are undergoing back surgery to  identify the location of the injured disc.
everything is a lie: the deliberate intent to deceive people is at  an all time high the h1n1 vaccine is a much greater risk  to your health than the flu itself the facts, stats and  dangers of soda pop soy lecithin: how it negatively  affects your health
hypertonic saline (salt water solution).
even if studies report positive benefits from herbal remedies, the compounds used in such studies are, in most cases, not what are being marketed to the public.
these exercises combine low-impact  physical movements and meditation.
half the truck drivers reported low back pain but only 24% lost time at work.
- progressive weakening in the legs.
pain from spinal stenosis can occur in both legs or can cause sciatic pain.
infections infections are a common cause of back pain.
preventdisease.com does not  advocate the use of any pharmaceutical drug treatments.
in spite of the fact  that discectomy has been performed for 40 years, few studies have been  conducted to determine its real effectiveness.
when osteoarthritis affects the spine, it may damage the cartilage in the discs, the moving joints of the spine, or both.
for many of these patients, surgery may bring significant relief.
a promising procedure known as intradiscal electrothermal treatment (idet) employs a probe that uses electricity to heat the injured disc tissue, specifically the annular ring nerve fibers.
injections - preventing falls.
are there social or emotional factors that might be intensifying the pain?
the general approach is the following: back pain attributed to medical conditions, such as arthritis, osteoporosis, or pregnancy, either resolves when the condition does or is treated as part of the overall therapeutic plan.
low back pain low back pain is usually  defined as eitheracute or chronic.
(one study compared celecoxib with the nsaids ibuprofen or diclofenac and the other compared rofecoxib with the nsaid naproxen.)
some experts argue, however, that it is not clear which patients would  benefit from them.
outlook for uncomplicated low back
it should be  strongly noted that if any substance has beneficial effects against serious
- depression has also been noted.
chronic uterine or pelvic infections can cause low back pain in women.
(specific exercises can be important during recovery, however, as well as for patients with chronic low back pain.)
never twist from the waist while bending or lifting any heavy object.
jobs that involve lifting and forceful movements, bending and twisting into awkward positions, and whole-body vibration (usually caused by long-distance truck driving) place workers at particular risk for low back pain.
each of the two branches  of the sciatic nerve is about as wide as a thumb.
the pain can vary widely, from a mild tingling to pain, to a dull ache,  to a burning sensation, to pain severe enough to cause immobility.
kidney abnormalities have been reported in people taking nsaids, which  resolves when the drugs are withdrawn.
lie on the back with the knees bent and feet flat on the floor.
symptoms include a slow development of back discomfort,  with pain lasting for more than three months.
in some cases a segment (consisting of two vertebra and their common  joint and disc) becomes unstable when its parts wear down.
in severe cases, the patient must continually stoop over.
although studies are mixed on the effects of  company interventions, one analysis suggested that they do have a positive  effect.
the spinal and transverse processes attach to the muscles in the back and act like little levers, allowing the spine to twist or bend.
(the effect, however, may be temporary).
although many patients with acute and uncomplicated low back pain believe that plain x-rays of the spinal column are important in a diagnosis, they are not very helpful in most patients except for reducing anxiety.
the spinal canal itself can become narrowed, a disorder called spinal  stenosis.
back pain attributed to medical  conditions, such as arthritis, osteoporosis, or pregnancy, either resolves when  the condition does or is treated as part of the overall therapeutic plan.
in reaction to this destruction, the bones associated with the joints develop abnormalities.
lack of exercise leads to the following conditions that may threaten  the back: muscle inflexibility (can restrict the back's ability to move, rotate,  and bend).
patients should discuss all other medications with their physician.
some patients may have scar tissue that traps the nerve roots in the  lower spine and causes sciatica.
in the 2001 study, however, the benefits of botox injections did subside by six months.
piroxicam (feldene), naproxen (aleve), and  indomethacin (indocin) appear to pose the greatest risks for high blood  pressure.
immediate treatment of acute low back pain of unknown cause specific tips for relieving pain.
possible negative effects.
- an inability to control urination or defecation.
and, if someone is on disability for more than six months, the person has only a 50% chance of returning to work.
the primary goal of cognitive therapy in  such cases is to change the distorted perceptions that patients have of  themselves and their approach to pain.
spinal manipulation spinal manipulation for uncomplicated acute low back pain.
some evidence suggests that both cox-2 inhibitors may increase the risk for blood clots.
exercises that put the lower back under pressure should be avoided until the back muscles are well toned.
narcotics are usually needed; adding an injected nsaid may speed  resolution of pain.
according to one small study,  one third of children being treated at a hospital for back pain were found to  have serious underlying problems.
- patients taking anticoagulant drugs may experience a higher risk for bleeding with the use of these agents.
obesity, associated with sedentary lifestyle (may put more weight on the  spine and increase pressure on the vertebrae and discs).
alternate with the other arm and leg and repeat on each side eight to 20 times.
one study  ranked the sixteen most commonly used nsaids according to risk for ulcers and  bleeding.
dizziness, ringing in the ear.
if the mattress is too soft, a 1/4-inch  plywood board can be put between the mattress and box spring.
walking, stationary biking, swimming, and even light jogging, however, may begin within two weeks of symptoms.
leg strengthening exercises (walking, cycling) may be helpful, with brief resting if pain occurs.
it can be quite mild, however, and it rarely affects a  person's ability to work.
for treating short-term acute low back pain, the best  results derive from the least aggressive treatments.
in the  older adults, osteoporosis and osteoarthritis are also common.
symptoms of sciatica.
a common cause of temporary back pain is carrying backpacks that are too heavy for children (more than 20% of their body weight, or even less for very young children).
this regimen should be performed two or three times during the day.
x-rays ct and mri scans.
- a history of cancer or other indications of an underlying disease, such as fever or unexplained weight loss.
over four years, less than half  were symptom-free.
resuming normal activity experts now  recommend that people with acute low back pain attempt to resume normal  activities as soon as possible.
the most common reasons for surgery for low back pain are sciatica and spinal stenosis.
less invasive endoscopic variations are  proving to be effective for some patients.
the following are three exercises for stretching the lower back: note: no one with low back pain should perform exercises that require bending over right after getting up in the morning.
some exercise programs used for prevention or for chronic low back pain include the following: - low impact aerobic exercises.
- are there social or emotional factors that might be intensifying the pain?
- each threads through the pelvis and deep into either side of the buttocks.
[for other nsaids,see box ulcers and  gastrointestinal bleeding.]
one 2001 study  compared targeted injections of saline and steroids directed at the nerve root.
in fact, in one study workers who  wore the belt for prevention reported more back pain than the workers who  didn't wear them.
after healing, the disc is toughened and desensitized.
in most known cases, pain begins with an injury, after  lifting a heavy object, or after making an abrupt movement.
it should be noted that magnets can deactivate heart devices and must be kept at least six inches away from pacemakers or implantable cardioverter defibrillators.
(rheumatoid arthritis, which is an arthritic condition caused by inflammation  in the joints, can damage joints throughout the body, but rarely affects the  lower back.)
- between 30% and 70% of cyclists experience low back pain.
low back pain accounts for significant losses in work days and  dollars.
- riding and particularly driving for long periods in a vehicle increases stress.
when defective, it may cause the disk to be less  able to resist compressive forces.
lying on the back, hold one knee and pull it gently toward the chest.
one study indicated that taking nsaids for only six months posed a risk for  symptomatic ulcers that was greater than 1%.
the national association for chiropractic medicine, 15427 baybrook drive,  houston, tx 77062.
laminectomy or laminotomy operations that shave off part of a vertebra (laminotomy) or remove all of it (laminectomy) may be used in certain cases of spinal stenosis or spondylolisthesis to decompress the nerve.
it should be strongly noted that if any substance has beneficial effects against serious
for many of these  patients, surgery may bring significant relief.
they showed greater improvement in  nearly every area, including reduced pain and increased capacity, compared to  patients who did not exercise.
the  patient may also experience muscle spasms and diminished mobility.
osteopathic treatment was also far less expensive.
these conditions can include ulcers, kidney  disease (including kidney stones), ovarian cysts, and pancreatitis.
repetition is the key to  increasing flexibility, building endurance, and strengthening the specific  muscles needed to support and neutralize the spine.
heat is applied for about 17 minutes.
over the years, the disc can degenerate  and produce low-grade inflammation and irritation.
exercise in the acute phases of low back pain.
- osteopathy was also founded in the 1800s and also involves physical manipulation as its core approach to healing.
most problems reported occur in herbal remedies imported from asia, with one study reporting a significant percentage of such remedies containing toxic metals.
president's  council on physical fitness and sports, department w, 200 independence ave.,  s.w., room 738-h, washington, dc 20201-0004.
injecting a drug that blocks pain into the nerves in the back helps locate the level in the spine where problems occur.
the lumbar (l) vertebrae are the five lowest and largest bones of  the spinal column.
for example, in one study of truck drivers and bus drivers, nearly all the truck drivers liked their work and their bosses while bus drivers reported much lower job satisfaction.
some people recommend changing from hot to cold every three minutes and repeating this sequence three times.
once started, medications should be taken on a regular schedule in order to maintain consistent effectiveness.
(celebrex may have fewer of these effects than vioxx.)
copyright policy | privacy statement stay connected newsletter | rss | facebook | twitter | youtube | buzz | bloggers | volunteer |
it also, like any drug, most likely has side effects and may even be harmful for some people.
specific and regular exercise under the  guidance of a trained professional is important for reducing pain and improving  function, although it is often very difficult to sustain.
approach for patients  with herniated discs: nonsurgical procedures.
or on the internet (http://www.nih.gov/niams/) national institute for occupational safety and health (niosh), 4676 columbia  parkway, cincinnati oh 45226.
of interest are studies that are finding a link between low back pain and impaired motor control of deep muscles of the back and trunk.
muscle spasms can cause pain.
the pain often starts slowly and typically worsens at night.
- any history of injuries or accidents involving the neck, back, or hips.
chiropractors offer a further psychologic advantage, which is availability to their patients.
in children, any severe neck or back pain or pain that persists for more  than three days.
it occurs mostly in young caucasians in their  mid-twenties.
the annular ring contains a dense nerve network and high levels of peptides  that heighten perception of pain: tears in the annular ring are a frequent finding in patients with  degenerative disk disease.
some of  the most common are aspirin, ibuprofen, naproxen, and ketoprofen, but many  others are now available.
- improper exercise instruction and inattention to mechanics can be sources of sudden trouble.
various endoscopic approaches are proving to be useful.
over four years, less than half were symptom-free.
certain antidepressants, called tricyclics, can even be effective pain killers innon-depressed people with chronic back pain.
low-impact aerobic exercises, such as swimming, bicycling, and walking, can strengthen muscles in the abdomen and back without over-straining the back.
generally, these exercises attempt to strengthen the abdomen, improve lower back mobility, strength, and endurance, and enhance flexibility in the hip and hamstring muscles and tendons at the back of the thigh.
all  patients should require objective evidence on the benefits of their treatments.
specific exercises for low back  strength perform the following exercises at least three times a  week: partial sit-ups.
long-term drug therapy  is very detrimental to human health.
illustrations of back surgery site has good description of back procedures ( http://www.spine-surgery.com) another site with good descriptions of back operations (http://www.yoursurgery.com) viewer relations about us | contact us | write for us | advertise | services | media inquires | terms and conditions | copyright policy | privacy statement stay connected newsletter | rss | facebook | twitter | youtube | buzz | bloggers | volunteer |
the positive benefits of exercise not only affect strength and flexibility but they also alter and improve the patients' attitudes toward their disability and pain.
these drugs are available over the counter and include famotidine (pepcid ac), ranitidine (zantac), cimetidine (tagamet), and nizatidine (axid).
low back pain accounts for significant losses in work days and dollars.
toll-free: (800) 283-7800 http://www.arthritis.org/ internet sites the  international intradiscal therapy society (iits) (http://www.iits.org) international spinal injection society (http://www.spinalinjection.com/)
pain increased by lying down.
although cox-2 inhibitors are very likely to have a lower risk for ulcers and gi bleeding than standard nsaids, studies have been mixed on whether patients taking cox-2 inhibitors have the same gastrointestinalsymptoms (eg, diarrhea, abdominal discomfort) as standard nsaids.
please  review ourcopyright policy for full details.
[see warnings on alternative and  so-called natural remedies.]
studies suggest that a third of patients with uncomplicated low back pain are significantly improved after a week with no other treatment than normal activity and two thirds have recovered by seven weeks.
in one study, for example, patients with back pain lasting for an average of 18 months were assigned eight one-hour exercise sessions over four weeks.
(http://www.consumerlab.com)
medical history a medical and family  history should include heart problems, cancer, arthritis, and any other serious  conditions.
warnings on alternative and so-called natural remedies it should be strongly noted that alternative or natural  remedies are not regulated and their quality is not publicly controlled.
- below the lumbar region is the sacrum, a shield-shaped bony structure that connects with the pelvis at the sacroiliac joints.
these agents block prostaglandins, the substances that dilate blood vessels and cause inflammation and pain.
over-the-counter pain relievers often provide significant benefits.
patients should never force  themselves to exercise if, by doing so, pain increases.
every year, nearly 15% of american  adults visit their doctors because of low back pain episodes.
aging process intervertebral discs begin  deteriorating and growing thinner by age 30.
how is low back pain or sciatica diagnosed?
- supportive back belts, braces, or corsets may help some people temporarily, but they can reduce muscle tone over time and should be used only briefly.
back pain can also be due to abscesses, blood clots, and cancer.
ulcers and gastrointestinal bleeding nsaids  are a major cause of ulcers and gastrointestinal (gi) bleeding.
it  should be noted that tricyclics can have severe side effects.
[for examples of some good exercises for the back,see box. ]
when the needles have been placed successfully, the patient is supposed to  experience a sensation known as teh chi, which brings a feeling of fullness,  numbness, tingling, and warmth with some soreness around the acupuncture point.
alcohol abuse may increase the risk  for gi bleeding when taking nsaids.
it is usually caused by massive  extrusion of the disc material.
if the physician suspects a serious underlying cause, the approach to determining the origin of back pain involves answering three questions: such questions can usually be answered with a medical history and physical examination.
computed tomography (ct) or magnetic resonance imaging (mri) are not painful and can identify disc abnormalities.
- nonsurgical treatments.
in  rare cases, bone scintigraphy and single photon emission computed tomography  (spect) may be used, such as when bone abnormalities are suspected from  conditions that include spinal fracture, cancer that has spread to the bone, or  osteoarthritis.
these agents may prove to be as effective and less harmful to the gi tract than nsaids.
(an analysis of studies reported that chiropractic  treatment was beneficial but not significantly better than sham treatments.
in older people, low back pain may be a sign of paget's disease or  parkinson's.
in such cases, pain occurs on arching the  back or when walking.
gastrointestinal complications from the use of nsaids account for almost 100,000 hospitalizations and at least 16,000 deaths a year in the united states.
in cases where abnormal positioning or vertebrae movement  puts pressure on the nerves, such as spinal stenosis or spondylolisthesis,  surgeons may fuse vertebrae together.
indications for surgery the rate of all  types of back surgery is more than 40% higher in the us than in any other  country.
- in children, any severe neck or back pain or pain that persists for more than three days.
according to a 2001 review of studies, about 10% of patients experience pain after six weeks that is severe enough to warrant consideration of discectomy, the standard procedure for herniated disks.
the council publishes physical activity and fitness research digest.
infections infections are a common cause of  back pain.
a chiropractor, however, is more likely to accept to a patient promptly.
transcutaneous electric nerve  stimulation.
in one study, therapists also taught relaxation techniques and methods to improve posture.
in some cases they are asked to walk on a treadmill to test for weakness  in toe or heel walking (which may indicate stenosis).
injections injections of  different substances are sometimes used to treat low back pain caused by nerve  impingement.
- muscle spasms can cause pain.
call (281-280-8262) or on the internet ( http://www.chiromed.org/)
(the effect,  however, may be temporary).
the source of low back pain can  be from abnormalities in one or more of the many structures in the spine: injuries and small fractures can occur.
very small amounts of the bacterial toxin temporarily  paralyze muscle tissue.
between 30% and 70% of cyclists experience low back pain.
for additional, updated information on osha's ergonomics rule, visit "the clipping file," part of the health & safety news section of the nycosh website.
symptoms of sciatica involve the following: - the sensation of sciatica is usually experienced along the course of the sciatic nerve, which travels from the lower back, through the buttock, into the calf, and sometimes even the foot.
it may be necessary to take medication to help manage nighttime pain or treat sleeplessness.
the spinal cord is the central trunk of  nerves that connects the brain with the rest of the body.
ulcers and gastrointestinal bleeding nsaids are a major cause of ulcers and gastrointestinal (gi) bleeding.
if an object can be moved without lifting, pull it, don't push.
it has largely been replaced by ct and mri scans.
only about 15% of these patients improve.
in patients with herniated discs, non surgical methods should be used for at least a month before considering surgery.
call (540-862-9437) american pain society, 4700 w. lake avenue, glenview, il 60025.
- scar tissue in the lower spine can trap nerves.
- the frequency, duration, and the nature of the pain (eg, whether it is dull, piercing, throbbing, or burning).
lift using the leg muscles, not those in the back.
call (847-375-4715) or on the internet ( http://www.ampainsoc.org) international association for the study of  pain, 909 ne 43rd st., suite 306, seattle, wa 98105-6020.
they are a common cause of back pain in young athletes.
the following are three exercises for  stretching the lower back: lie on the back with knees bent and legs together.
unlike chiropractic, however,  osteopathy uses manipulation of the bones, muscles, and tendons to optimize  blood circulation.
in some patients antidepressants may be helpful, particularly those known as tricyclics.
both chiropractors and osteopaths offer verbal assurance and a precise treatment regimen.
studies report that a course of cognitive-behavioral therapy helps reduce chronic back pain and enhances the patient's ability to deal with it.
(sulindac has the smallest effect.)
most problems reported occur in herbal  remedies imported from asia, with one study reporting a significant percentage  of such remedies containing toxic metals.
pain awakens the person at night.
- some patients may have scar tissue that traps the nerve roots in the lower spine and causes sciatica.
jogging is usually not recommended, at least not until the pain is gone and muscles are stronger.
studies are finding that specific mutations of the col9a gene may play a role in about 10% of sciatica cases.
in about 85% of back pain cases, the origin of the pain is unknown and  even imaging studies usually fail to determine the cause.
the nerves may become  pinched, causing pain and in advanced cases, numbness and muscle weakness.
people who are depressed are  more likely to have vague physical symptoms, including low back pain.
cauda equina syndrome can cause permanent incontinence if not promptly treated with surgery.
they are expensive, however, and many experts believe they are overused and, in most cases of back pain, are not very useful.
fibromyalgia (also called fibrositis or fibromyositis)
one study of extracts of harpagophytum (a south african herb commonly called devil's claw or grapple plant) showed some promise.
it constitutes only 1% to 5% of all low back pain cases.
repetition is the key to increasing flexibility, building endurance, and strengthening the specific muscles needed to support and neutralize the spine.
the direct physical connection through spinal manipulation reinforces  the patient-practitioner relationship.
press the lower back to the floor, hold for one second and then relax.
then, extend the legs a little more so that  the feet are further away from the body and try it again.
although less invasive  techniques are being developed and described below, at this time they are no  more effective than the standard approach.
other, specific indications for surgery  include the following: progressive weakening in the legs.
pain caused by inflammation is duller and more generalized and not affected by lifting a straight leg.)
- the pain usually resolves within six weeks with mild activity.
in addition, the general direction of osteopathy over the years has widened to employ a broader range of treatments that now approach those of standard medicine.
a herniated disc pressing on the sciatic nerve is the most common cause of this problem, although spinal stenosis or other vertebral abnormalities that press on the sciatic nerve can also cause pain.
nevertheless, there is a strong movement within the practice aimed at a scientific and realistic approach.
vertebrae in the spinal column are separated from each other by small cushions  of cartilage known asintervertebral discs .
it is, in fact, important for any person who has  chronic low back pain to have an exercise program guided by professionals who  understand the limitations and special needs of back pain and who can address  individual health conditions.
to test nerve function and reflexes, physicians will tap the knees and  ankles with a rubber hammer.
call (800-959-3746) )
about 20% of  people with inflammatory bowel disease and about 20% of people with psoriasis  develop a form of ankylosing spondylitis.
hogwash alert: one flu shot to protect all humans from all flu  strains for ten years?
although mainly known as a cause of heart disease, atherosclerosis can also  reduce the supply of blood to the back and cause chronic low back pain.
on the other  hand, some people have experienced morning backache from a mattress that is too  hard.
and the improvement is superior to that from nonsurgical  treatments for about four years in most patients.
a major study  of work-related injuries reported that, in 1994, there were nearly 330,000  cases of back injury due to overexertion in handling objects.
although mainly known as a cause of heart disease, atherosclerosis can also reduce the supply of blood to the back and cause chronic low back pain.
this effect can also trigger fluid build up  and high blood pressure.
one study indicated that patients who planned their own exercise did worse than those in physical therapy or physician-directed programs.
(sometimes a fracture may not show up for a  week or two after an injury.)
most cases clear up in a few days without medical  attention, although recurrence after a first attack is common.
the source of low back pain can be from abnormalities in one or more of the many structures in the spine: - acute low back pain lasts less than a month and is not caused by serious medical conditions.
some patients consider spinal  manipulation to be highly effective for chronic low back pain as well, although  evidence in this case is much weaker.
massage therapy may be helpful for pain that has persisted for more than three weeks.
it occurs mostly in young caucasians in their mid-twenties.
some chiropractors overuse x-rays, particularly those of the full spine, which may have harmful consequences.
- at the end of the sacrum are two to four tiny, partially fused vertebrae known as thecoccyx or "tail bone.
one 2001 study compared targeted injections of saline and steroids directed at the nerve root.
the patient first lies on his or her side.
- it most often occurs on one side.
- although not intensively studied, patients report that massage therapy is helpful in some cases.
others believe there is no real evidence that this condition, known as  piriformis syndrome, causes any sciatic pain.
cox-2 inhibitors are currently more expensive than  traditional nsaids, however, and some insurers do not pay for them.
- the thoracic (t) vertebrae are the twelve spinal bones that connect to the rib cage.
in its costs to the country, it is second only to cancer and heart disease.
people with hypertension, severe vascular disease, kidney or liver problems, and those taking diuretics must be closely monitored if they need to take nsaids.
endoscopic discectomy.
the role of physical therapy physical  therapy with a trained professional may be useful if pain has not improved  within the first three weeks.
- healthy sleep plays a vital role in recovery.
the sciatic nerve is the one most likely to be affected in low back pain and has an extensive pathway: each then passes down the hip and along the back of the thigh to the foot.
any very severe back pain warrants attention, particularly if any of the following conditions are present: - being over 50.
- spinal manipulation may be helpful but some experts recommend delaying this treatment until pain has persisted for three weeks, if possible, since in many patients the back pain will have resolved on its own by then.
there have been claims for a number of herbal and so-called  natural remedies for relief of back pain.
healthy sleep plays a vital role in recovery.
muscle and ligament injuries other than age-related degenerative disk disorders injuries in the muscles and ligaments supporting the back are the major causes of low back pain.
calculate your body fat percentage how flexible are you?
spinal abnormalities identified by mris often do not predict  long-term problems.
in such cases, they may reveal signs of injury, infection, tumors, stenosis, or changes in the vertebrae that may be causing inflammation or compression on the nerve.
hold this position for about 20 seconds (while breathing evenly) and then repeat on the other side.
people vulnerable to back pain should avoid activities that put undue stress on the lower back or require sudden twisting movements, such as football, golf, ballet, and weight lifting.
when it blocks arteries in the legs (a condition called intermittent claudication)
what are low back pain and sciatica?
all drug information is for your reference only and readers are strongly encouraged to research healthier alternatives to any drug therapies listed.
central nervous system abnormalities after episodes of back pain, some people may experience changes in brain  function that lead them to experience chronic back pain.
although not intensively studied, patients report that massage therapy is  helpful in some cases.
discs abnormalities in people who have back pain, then, may simply be a coincidence rather than an indication for treatment.
in general, normal activity should be resumed in a gradual fashion as soon as the patient feels ready, reserving therapeutic exercises until after the acute pain has resolved.
and yet another study reported that low rank, low social support, and high stress in soldiers was associated with a higher risk for disabling back pain.
unfortunately, the strongest evidence to date suggests that, in general, acupuncture does not have a major effect on low back pain.
according to a 2001 review of studies, about 10% of patients  experience pain after six weeks that is severe enough to warrant consideration  of discectomy, the standard procedure for herniated disks.
move the seat as far forward as possible to avoid bending forward.
these agents may prove to be as effective and less harmful to the  gi tract than nsaids.
pens may be more effective.
- lumbar extension strength training.
none of these substances cure the problem.
[for more information see the report fibromyalgia.] medications medications may trigger back  pain.
call (916) 632-0922 or on the  internet (http://www.theacpa.org/) national chronic pain outreach  association.
this means keeping the ears, shoulders, and hips in a straight line with the head up and stomach pulled in.
people  vulnerable to back pain should avoid activities that put undue stress on the  lower back or require sudden twisting movements, such as football, golf,  ballet, and weight lifting.
a one-time injection of a corticosteroid  (commonly called a steroid) is directed as close to the injured location as  possible.
this is the major danger with long-term use of nsaids.
only  about 15% of these patients improve.
celecoxib (celebrex), rofecoxib (vioxx), and meloxicam (mobic) are known as cox-2 (cyclooxygenase-2) inhibitors, the so-called super-aspirins.
(some experts believe ice packs should be applied first.)
once started, medications  should be taken on a regular schedule in order to maintain consistent  effectiveness.
patients should also be aware that some chiropractors  use alternative treatments that have not been proven or rigorously studied.
for long rides, one should  stop and walk around about every hour and avoid lifting or carrying objects  immediately after the ride.
it involves inserting small pins or exerting pressure on certain "energy" points in the body.
- to test nerve function and reflexes, physicians will tap the knees and ankles with a rubber hammer.
it requires a substantial post-operative recovery period, but may prove to be a less invasive alternative to surgery.
studies suggest that surgery reduces back pain in many patients, at least for a few years.
tips for daily movement and inactivity the way a person moves, stands, or sleeps during the day plays a major role in back pain: - maintaining good posture is very important.
in one 2001 study, for example,  70% of patients with moderate to severe sciatica who had had surgery reported  improvement.
although little research has been done on such complications, an english survey indicated that they are more frequent than commonly thought.
if you need to move an object to one side, point your toes in that direction and pivot toward it.
injections of different substances are sometimes used to treat low back pain caused by nerve impingement.
a variant (sometimes called percutaneous  electrical nerve stimulation or pens) applies these pulses through a small  needle to acupuncture points.
- juvenile chronic arthropathy.
not all  are available
side effects for all opioids include drowsiness, impaired judgment, nausea, and constipation.
one study indicated that taking nsaids for only six months posed a risk for symptomatic ulcers that was greater than 1%.
unless the pain is very severe, experts advise against routinely prescribing  pain killers containing opioids (eg, morphine, codeine, meperidine [demerol],  oxycodone [oxycontin], or tramadol).
in some patients antidepressants may be helpful,  particularly those known as tricyclics.
a discography is an x-ray of the disc.
experts  recommend waiting six to eight weeks.
a small pillow or rolled towel behind the lower back  helps relieve pressure while either sitting or driving.
specific conditions can determine the  rate of improvement: in the majority of patients with herniated disks, the condition improves  (although the actual physical improvement may be slower than the reduction in  pain.)
spinal stenosis spinal stenosis is the narrowing of the spinal canal.
- yoga, tai chi, and chi kung.
there have been a  number of reported cases of serious and even lethal side effects from herbal  products.
if pain is persistent, patients may require surgery, most often a procedure called decompressive laminectomy.
between 60% and 90% of the population experience back pain at  one time or another during their lifetimes.
employers and workers, however, should make every effort to create a  safe working environment.
it is, in fact, important for any person who has chronic low back pain to have an exercise program guided by professionals who understand the limitations and special needs of back pain and who can address individual health conditions.
in the 2001 study, however, the benefits of  botox injections did subside by six months.
- local anesthetics.
the patients should seek a specialist if pain continues for more than a month (or less than this if there is indications for an underlying disorder, nerve damage, or injury).
[for examples of some good  exercises for the back,see box. ] yoga, tai chi, and chi kung.
- dizziness, ringing in the ear.
low back pain is second only to upper respiratory infections  (such as colds and flus) as the reason for seeing a doctor.
among the conditions that cause back pain in children are the following: - spondylolytis are stress fractures in the spine.
other tests blood and urine samples  may be used to test for infections, arthritis, or other conditions.
methodological problems have clouded the  results of many studies on manipulation techniques, and it is difficult to draw  valid conclusions from most of them.
spinal manipulation may be helpful but some experts recommend delaying  this treatment until pain has persisted for three weeks, if possible, since in  many patients the back pain will have resolved on its own by then.
misoprostol is a prostaglandin, the protective substance blocked by nsaid use.
about a  third of patients with uncomplicated low back pain are significantly improved  after a week and two thirds have recovered by seven weeks.
when defective, it may cause the disk to be less able to resist compressive forces.
spinal stenosis occurs mostly in the elderly with degenerative osteoarthritis, but it can sometimes be caused by other problems, including infection and birth defects.
while sitting, the knees should be a little higher than the hip, so a low stool or hassock is useful to put the feet on.
the thoracic (t) vertebrae are the twelve spinal bones that  connect to the rib cage.
weakness or numbness in buttocks, genital area, or thigh.
the patients should seek a specialist if pain continues for more than a  month (or less than this if there is indications for an underlying disorder,  nerve damage, or injury).
in 1990, it cost the us $23 billion in direct medical costs and possibly as much as $85 billion in total costs (such as lost productivity.
pain accompanied by  fever can indicate an infection.
they are based on principles of disciplining  the mind to achieve a physical and mental balance and can be very helpful in  preventing recurrences of lower back pain.
a disc in  the lumbar area becomes herniated when it ruptures or thins out and degenerates  to the point that the gelatin within the disc protrudes outward.
of interest are studies that are finding  a link between low back pain and impaired motor control of deep muscles of the  back and trunk.
lumbar extension strength training.
it is used to prevent nsaid-induced ulcers, both duodenal  and gastric, but is not useful in healing existing ulcers.
perform this exercise  slowly eight to ten times with the arms across the chest.
tips for lifting and bending anyone who engages in heavy lifting should take precautions when lifting and bending: - if an object is too heavy or awkward, get help.
the drugs were all equally effective in relieving pain.
an incremental  aerobic exercise program is less stressful than stretching or performing  exercises that strengthen the trunk muscles.
it is important that any serious medical causes as well as cauda equina syndrome and progressive nerve damage be ruled out first.
bus drivers with back pain had a significantly higher  absentee rate in spite of less stress on their backs.
(ultrasound is not useful.)
(none  of these approaches, however, offered complete relief.)
have you posted pictures on the internet?
call (703-684-2782) or (800-999-2782) on the internet (http://www.apta.org/) american academy of orthopaedic surgeons, 6300 n. river road, rosemont, il 60018-4262.
an inability to control urination or defecation.
- retraining deep muscles.
tall people are at higher risk than short people.
please note that most treatment modalities  listed below are based on conventional medicine.
the patient should report the following: previous episodes of back pain.
- a discography is an x-ray of the disc.
the incidence of low back pain and sciatica  increases in women at the time of menopause as they lose bone density.
other techniques intradiscal electrothermal treatment.
a herniated disc, sometimes, but incorrectly, called a slipped disc, is widely held to be the most common cause of severe back pain and sciatica.
- no one who has allergic reactions, hives, or asthma from sulfa drugs, aspirin, or other nsaids, should take a cox-2 inhibitor.
diabetics taking oral hypoglycemics may need to adjust the dosage if they  also need to take nsaids because of possible harmful interactions between the  drugs.
if pain is persistent, patients may require surgery, most often  a procedure called decompressive laminectomy.
for example, c4 is the fourth bone down in the cervical  region and t8 is the eighth thoracic vertebrae.
in  general, early treatments for severe low back pain or for episodes of chronic  low back pain are similar to those of acute uncomplicated low back pain,  including avoiding bed rest.
to date no studies support such claims and one 2000 study reported no effect in alleviating low back pain.
stress reduction and behavioral techniques
in one 2000 study that used electrical stimulation to block the nerves, 60% of the patients reported at least 90% relief of pain after a year, and 87% reported at least 60% relief.
( http://www.nycosh.org).
regular use of even over-the-counter nsaids may be hazardous for anyone and has been associated with the following side effects: - ulcers and gastrointestinal bleeding.
social and psychologic factors play a  role in how severely someone experiences pain.
inflammatory bowel disease and rheumatoid arthritis can produce inflammation in  the spine (sacroiliitis).
miscellaneous abnormalities a number of  conditions that affect the joints, vertebrae, or nerve roots can cause back  pain: spondylolisthesis is a condition in which one vertebra has slipped  forward over the other.
any condition that worsens the pain (for example, coughing, exercise,  straining during bowel movements, walking).
chronic uterine or pelvic infections can cause low back  pain in women.
this site provides results of independent tests of the quality and potency  of herbal and nutritional products.
any indications of a serious underlying disease (eg, history of cancer,  unexplained weight loss, chronic infection).
both  chiropractors and osteopaths offer verbal assurance and a precise treatment  regimen.
what conditions make people susceptible to low back pain?
such changes include an exaggerated response in nerve cells or other factors that cause a persistent perception of pain even without an actual physical injury.
recognizing it as a strong player in many cases of low back pain, however, can  help determine the full range of treatment options.
anti-scarring agents or certain devices may  help reduce surgical scars and thereby postoperative pain.
how serious is low back pain or sciatica?
because nearly all cases of low back pain clear up in a short time and are not due to serious problems, a medical history and a brief physical examination are almost always sufficient.
the physician will also move the patient's legs in different positions and bend  and straighten the knees.
the specific goal of chiropractors is to perform spinal manipulations to improve nerve transmission.
other relevant symptoms (eg, morning stiffness, weakness or numbness in  the legs).
if possible, chairs should swivel to avoid  twisting at the waist, have arm rests, and adjustable backs.
the particular processes form the joints  between the vertebrae themselves, meeting together and interlocking at the facet joints.
one 1999 study even  found the rate of gi problems with celecoxib was equal to that in people who do  not take nsaids at all.
national arthritis  and musculoskeletal and skin diseases, information clearinghouse, national  institutes of health, 1 ams circle, bethesda, maryland 20892-3675.
bone scans and spect imaging.
the perception of pain.
this site provides results of independent tests of the quality and potency of herbal and nutritional products.
it is an emergency condition.
exercises called lumbar  extension strength training are proving to be effective.
a variant (sometimes called percutaneous electrical nerve stimulation or pens) applies these pulses through a small needle to acupuncture points.
when the spinal  cord reaches the lumbar region, it splits into four bundled strands of nerve  roots called the cauda equina (meaning horsetail in latin).
risk factors for back pain in children and adolescents the likelihood of experiencing back pain increases as children age, and pain is more common among girls than boys, according to a 1999 study.
scar tissue in the lower spine can trap nerves.
on the other  side of the coin, improper or excessive exercise is also an important risk  factor for back pain.
- cancers, including leukemia.
- one in three people with low back pain seek treatment from a chiropractor.
ulcer risk for specific nsaids.
after healing, the disc is  toughened and desensitized.
atherosclerosis atherosclerosis (commonly  called hardening of the arteries) reduces blood supply in the arteries.
mild and temporary side effects from spinal  manipulation are common.
walking, stationary biking, swimming, and even light  jogging, however, may begin within two weeks of symptoms.
in one study, 16 out of 100 warehouse workers reported back injuries in one year, and in two major food service organizations 30% of all injuries involved the back.
(pain caused by sciatica can be intensified by  lifting the affected leg straight in the air.
one study indicated that patients who planned  their own exercise did worse than those in physical therapy or  physician-directed programs.
if pain persists beyond two to three weeks, at least one session of spinal manipulation may be a useful treatment.
jogging is usually not recommended, at least not  until the pain is gone and muscles are stronger.
in cases where abnormal positioning or vertebrae movement puts pressure on the nerves, such as spinal stenosis or spondylolisthesis, surgeons may fuse vertebrae together.
the shifting vertebrae make a cracking or popping sound, indicating that they have exceeded the normal range of motion.
[see what is the role of exercise and movement in low back pain?.] - antidepressants.
fusion employs a bone graft or some other device to  join the vertebrae together.
in addition, herbal and so-called natural remedies are  not regulated, few studies have been conducted on any of these products, and  the quality or safety cannot be guaranteed.
studies indicate, however, that the incidence of low back pain  and sciatica increase around the time of menopause, and very tiny fractures in  the vertebrae caused by osteoporosis may be an undetected cause of back pain in  many elderly women.
each vertebra and its processes surround and protect an arch-shaped central opening.
(patients should wait at least two to three weeks before using spinal  manipulation, since early effectiveness and safety are not yet clear.)
- the physician may measure the circumference of the calves and thighs to look for muscle deterioration.
approach for patients with spinal stenosis preventing falls.
a survey of people who played tennis, however, found  no increased risk for low back pain or sciatica.
in addition, some so-called natural remedies were found to contain  standard prescription medication.
research indicates that surgery may have better short-term effects  than medical treatment (in terms of immediate employability and functioning),  but that in the long-term they are about equal.
pain unrelated to movement.
one study ranked the sixteen most commonly used nsaids according to risk for ulcers and bleeding.
or on the internet (http://www.backcycler.com/) backcycler is a device designed by orthopedists at the spine institute of new england to alleviate the discomfort of sitting in a car or airplane.
they may delay the emptying of the stomach, which could interfere with  the actions of other drugs.
symptoms of the syndrome  include the following: dull back pain.
effects on work studies have found that when people stay home because of back injury, only 65% are back within a week and nearly 14% are still absent at one month.
experts also suggest that heart patients with chronic pain may be substituting cox-2 inhibitors for heart-protective nsaids (such as aspirin, ibuprofen, or possibly naproxen).
in such cases, they may reveal signs of injury, infection, tumors,  stenosis, or changes in the vertebrae that may be causing inflammation or  compression on the nerve.
this form of psychologic therapy helps  change behavior and attitudes toward pain, and may be helpful for dealing with  pain.
stretching lower-back muscles.
experts recommend waiting six to eight weeks.
and why you need to avoid it vo2 max:  how fit is an athlete?
they should avoid alcohol and sedatives.
other complications of spinal surgery can include nerve and muscle damage, infection, scarring, and the need for reoperation.
(an analysis of studies reported that chiropractic treatment was beneficial but not significantly better than sham treatments.
patients will be asked to lift their leg straight up while lying down.
bone is removed from the patient and packed inside the cage; over time the bone grows through the holes and around the device, fusing the vertebrae.
spinal stenosis occurs mostly in  the elderly with degenerative osteoarthritis, but it can sometimes be caused by  other problems, including infection and birth defects.
if  you need to move an object to one side, point your toes in that direction and  pivot toward it.
it employs exercises to help the patients keep the spine in  neutral positions during all daily activities.
everything is a lie: the deliberate intent to deceive people is at an all time high the h1n1 vaccine is a much greater risk to your health than the flu itself the facts, stats and dangers of soda pop soy lecithin: how it negatively affects your health
transcutaneous electric nerve stimulation (tens) uses low-level electrical pulses to suppress back pain.
an incremental aerobic exercise program is less stressful than stretching or performing exercises that strengthen the trunk muscles.
it is commonly believed that that low back pain most often occurs if this material extrudes (that is, it balloons into the area outside the vertebrae or breaks off from the disc) far enough out to press against the nerve root, most often the sciatic nerve.
- the patient first lies on his or her side.
scar tissue is a significant problem, since it can cause persistent low back pain afterward.
muscle and ligament injuries other than  age-related degenerative disk disorders injuries in the muscles and ligaments  supporting the back are the major causes of low back pain.
some experts  argue that endoscopic procedures are rarely useful and patients often need  repeat operations.
in its costs to the  country, it is second only to cancer and heart disease.
a  chiropractor, however, is more likely to accept to a patient promptly.
cox-2 inhibitors are currently more expensive than traditional nsaids, however, and some insurers do not pay for them.
- weak back muscles (may increase the load on the spine and the risk for disc compression).
intense exercise and physical activity should be avoided during acute back pain, particularly heavy lifting and trunk twisting.
flexibility exercises.
it also, like any drug, most likely has side effects and may even be  harmful for some people.
osteopathy was also founded in the 1800s and also involves physical  manipulation as its core approach to healing.
- a few cases of psychiatric side effects (hallucinations), fluid build up, high blood pressure, and excess potassium in the blood has been observed with higher doses of celecoxib or rofecoxib.
epidural injections of  saline are being investigated for breaking up scar tissue.
- weak stomach muscles (can increase the strain on the back and can cause an abnormal tilt of the pelvis).
mris are more accurate than cts and provide very well-defined images of soft tissue and bone.
discectomy is the surgical removal of the  diseased disc, thereby relieving pressure on the spine.
back pain can also be due to abscesses,  blood clots, and cancer.
or on the internet (http://www.backcycler.com/) backcycler is a  device designed by orthopedists at the spine institute of new england to  alleviate the discomfort of sitting in a car or airplane.
procedures that block nerves in the pelvic area may be used  in severe cases.
if back pain has continued beyond five weeks, physical therapy is used for rehabilitation.
patients should never force themselves to exercise if, by doing so, pain increases.
after that, and by ten years, however, it is not clear if surgery maintains its advantage over nonsurgical approaches.
these arches, aligned to run down the spine, form the spinal canal, which encloses the spinal cord.
depression has also been noted.
hold for three seconds while tightening the  abdominal muscles.
injections of anesthetics such as xylocaine or  bupivacaine may also help some patients.
research now indicates that in many people, preexisting depression and the  inability to cope may be more likely to predict the onset of pain than physical  abnormalities.
it usually develops after an injury.
2nd floor lagrange, il 60525 phone: (708) 588-8080 fax: (708)
although steroid injections had more immediate benefits, both offered  improvement, and by three months, patients who had saline injections  experienced less pain than the steroid group.
all patients should require objective evidence on the benefits of their treatments.
for people who need to take nsaids regularly, some agents are available that may protect against bleeding and ulcers.
physical therapy or spinal manipulations may be helpful if pain continues  for more than two weeks.
when it  blocks arteries in the legs (a condition called intermittent claudication)
as people continue to age and the discs lose moisture and shrink, the risk for spinal stenosis increases.
the emotional effects of such connections may be as important for healing as the treatments themselves.
[see what is  the role of exercise and movement in low back pain?.]
hold for three seconds while tightening the abdominal muscles.
anti-scarring agents or certain devices may help reduce surgical scars and thereby postoperative pain.
each nerve root  passes from the spinal column to other parts of the body through small openings  bounded on one side by the disc and the other by the facets.
whether flexibility exercises alone offer  any significant benefit is uncertain.
experts also suggest that heart patients with chronic  pain may be substituting cox-2 inhibitors for heart-protective nsaids (such as  aspirin, ibuprofen, or possibly naproxen).
the disease is more common in men, but about 30% of the cases are  in women.
according to one small study, one third of children being treated at a hospital for back pain were found to have serious underlying problems.
how many calories do you burn while walking calculate child or teen body composition have you posted pictures on the internet?
- the pain often starts slowly and typically worsens at night.
in addition, any substance that can affect the body's chemistry can, like any drug, produce side effects that may be harmful.
in addition, some so-called natural remedies were found to contain standard prescription medication.
- lying on the back, hold one knee and pull it gently toward the chest.
- confusion or bizarre sensation (in some higher-potency nsaids, such as indomethacin).
it is usually sharp, localized, and accompanied by numbness or tingling.
- pain that lasts more than a month.
most cases clear up in a few days without medical attention, although recurrence after a first attack is common.
- events surrounding the onset and whether the pain was triggered by an event, such as lifting a heavy object.
some people recommend changing from hot to cold every  three minutes and repeating this sequence three times.
each nerve root passes from the spinal column to other parts of the body through small openings bounded on one side by the disc and the other by the facets.
partial sit-ups or crunches strengthen  the abdominal muscles.
chiropractic was founded in the us in the late 1800s and has been  associated throughout its history with shamanism and folklore as well as with  potentially genuine health benefits.
permanent bipolar magnets have gained some popularity as a non-invasive method of relieving pain.
such lack of control causes instability in the spine  that can lead to pain.
such changes include  an exaggerated response in nerve cells or other factors that cause a persistent  perception of pain even without an actual physical injury.
mris are able to detect annular tears or disc fragments and can detect non-spinal causes of back pain, including infection and cancer.
injecting a  drug that blocks pain into the nerves in the back helps locate the level in the  spine where problems occur.
cancers, including leukemia.
the back is the best guide.
herniated disc and other disc abnormalities disc herniation and disc degeneration due to aging are the most common causes of low back pain.
exercises called lumbar extension strength training are proving to be effective.
what are treatments for severe low back pain (herniated disc or spinal stenosis)?
they may have negative effects on pregnancy and fertility.
hold objects close to the body to reduce the load on the back.
although either procedure  often brings immediate relief from pain, a 1999 statistical study suggested  that it is inappropriately performed in 60% or more of sciatica cases.
all content on this site may be copied, without permission, whether reproduced digitally or in print, provided copyright, reference and source information are intact and use is strictly for not-for-profit purposes.
the discs have no blood  supply of their own, however, but rely on nearby blood vessels to keep them  nourished.
potent pain relievers opioids.
a a a interact stay connected with our newsletter
- any indications of a serious underlying disease (eg, history of cancer, unexplained weight loss, chronic infection).
recently, however, researchers are finding that the presence of such a pinched nerve does not necessarily relate to the severity of the pain.
many studies have now confirmed that patients feel more satisfied with their chiropractic care than with treatment from general practitioners.
the following website is building a database of natural remedy brands that it tests and rates.
to help promote sleep, avoid caffeine in  the afternoon and evening.
this is the major danger with  long-term use of nsaids.
- cognitive-behavioral therapy.
as people continue to age and the discs lose moisture and shrink, the risk for  spinal stenosis increases.
discs abnormalities in people who have back pain, then, may simply  be a coincidence rather than an indication for treatment.
more research is needed to confirm or refute any possible hazard.
nevertheless, they pose a lower risk for complications than  major surgery and some experts urge they be used for selected patients.
one study, for example, reported that meditation was beneficial in reducing pain and improving mood among chronic pain sufferers who had not responded to traditional care.
imaging techniques imaging techniques such as x-rays or scans are rarely useful except under certain circumstances that may include the following:
sciatica at some time, up to 40% of people  experience pain, known assciatica, which occurs when the sciatic  nerve is trapped or inflamed.
still it may be  helpful for certain patients with back pain, such as pregnant women, who must  avoid medications.
less invasive endoscopic variations are proving to be effective for some patients.
- one 2000 study observed that the cox-2 inhibitors had some adverse effects on kidney function, particularly in elderly people, that were similar to the effects of standard nsaids.
it should be strongly noted that incorrect  movements or long-term high-impact exercise is a cause of back pain.
studies report that a course of  cognitive-behavioral therapy helps reduce chronic back pain and enhances the  patient's ability to deal with it.
for example, c4 is the fourth bone down in the cervical region and t8 is the eighth thoracic vertebrae.
(specific exercises can be important during  recovery, however, as well as for patients with chronic low back pain.)
surgical treatments for low back pain rose from 190,000 in 1983 to 335,000 in 1994.
- any condition that worsens the pain (for example, coughing, exercise, straining during bowel movements, walking).
other, specific indications for surgery include the following: a patient should be sure that the surgeon has had significant experience with any procedure to be performed.
other complications of spinal surgery can include nerve and  muscle damage, infection, scarring, and the need for reoperation.
this structure makes the disk both elastic and strong.
there  are small risks to the operation and it is not always successful.
yet.http://www.consumerlab.com/ the food and drug administration has a program called medwatch for people to report adverse reactions to untested substances, such as herbal remedies and vitamins (call 800-332-1088).
- pain unrelated to movement.
other infections that cause back pain include lyme disease, septic arthritis, bacterial endocarditis, reiter's syndrome, mycobacterial and fungal arthritis, and viral arthritis.
spinal stenosis spinal stenosis is the  narrowing of the spinal canal.
the way a patient perceives and copes with pain at the beginning of an acute attack may actually condition the patient to either recover or develop a chronic condition.
highest risk: flurbiprofen (ansaid), piroxicam (feldene), fenoprofen,  indomethacin (indocin), meclofenamate (meclomen), and oxaprozin.
it should be noted that one study reported that an injected nsaid after fusion procedures may reduce the chances for successful bone healing and union.
warnings on alternative and so-called natural remedies it should be strongly noted that alternative or natural remedies are not regulated and their quality is not publicly controlled.
this  structure makes the disk both elastic and strong.
in 85% of back pain cases, the causes are unknown.
pain studies now suggest that more patients have chronic back pain than previously believed.
it is usually caused by massive extrusion of the disc material.
celecoxib (celebrex), rofecoxib (vioxx), and meloxicam (mobic) are known as  cox-2 (cyclooxygenase-2) inhibitors, the so-called super-aspirins.
other problems can also cause this pain, however.
the spine is a  column of small bones, orvertebrae, that support the entire upper body.
in older patients (over 65 years of age).
some physicians have recommended long-term opioids for patients with severe chronic pain, but studies suggest they do not improve activity levels and can have significant side effects.
interestingly, standard medical treatments hadworse results than both  chiropractic and sham treatments.)
keep the knees bent and the lower back flat on  the floor while raising the shoulders up three to six inches.
invasive surveillance awaits msg lurks as a slow poison in common food items without knowing avoid ice creams with toxic ingredients cure tooth decay naturally
what are treatments for uncomplicated acute low back pain?
at some point in this process, any disruption, such as a minor injury that results in disc inflammation, can cause impingement on the nerve root and trigger pain.
patients with heart disease who are taking low-dose aspirin should continue it even while they are taking cox-2 inhibitors.
resuming activity levels after acute back pain overexertion may be as unhelpful as prolonged bed rest during acute back pain.
there are a number of variations, but one example of a spinal  manipulation technique is the following:
there has not been a clear consensus even among its own practitioners about its specific goals.
alternate with the other arm  and leg and repeat on each side eight to 20 times.
- lie on the back with the knees bent and feet flat on the floor.
the drugs were all equally effective in relieving  pain.
note: no one  with low back pain should perform exercises that require bending over right  after getting up in the morning.
if common pain relievers, such as nsaids are not effective, narcotic agents may be needed for a limited period.
- injuries and small fractures can occur.
the  back of the seat should be reclined not more than 30° and, if possible, the  seat bottom should be tilted slightly up in front.
cauda equina syndrome can cause permanent  incontinence if not promptly treated with surgery.
it should be noted that tricyclics can have severe side effects.
in spite of their promise,  some researchers theorize that inhibiting cox-2 may have some negative side  effects over the long term: although cox-2 inhibitors are very likely to have a lower risk for ulcers  and gi bleeding than standard nsaids, studies have been mixed on whether  patients taking cox-2 inhibitors have the same gastrointestinalsymptoms (eg, diarrhea, abdominal discomfort) as standard nsaids.
- exercise in the acute phases of low back pain.
if results are inconclusive, either  computed tomography (ct) or magnetic resonance imaging (mri) may be performed.
- the effect of high-impact exercise on the back is not entirely clear.
corticosteroids reduce inflammation and this approach may short-cut  sciatic pain until the body heals itself.
[see what causes the pain in low back pain or sciatica?.]
many studies have now confirmed that patients  feel more satisfied with their chiropractic care than with treatment from  general practitioners.
proton pump inhibitors are  possibly the most protective agents and can actually heal existing ulcers.
it is used to prevent nsaid-induced ulcers, both duodenal and gastric, but is not useful in healing existing ulcers.
if possible, chairs should swivel to avoid twisting at the waist, have arm rests, and adjustable backs.