some experts believe that patients who are diagnosed with cfs should be referred to therapists trained in cognitive-behavioral therapy.
for cfs patients, this  means learning to think differently about their fatigue, improving their  ability to deal with stressful situations, and managing their disorder.
the sites often include the: some patients with cfs exhibit similar tender pressure points.
children should be diagnosed by a pediatrician.
still, some studies indicate that children have a better prognosis than adults and most will recover after 1 - 4 years.
2006;295(21):2466-2467.
for example, in one study, nefazodone improved mood, fatigue, and sleep disturbances.
some experts believe that the impaired mental functioning is due to depression, which is common in cfs patients.
in 2007, the national institute for health and clinical excellence (nice) released new guidelines for the diagnosis and management of cfs in adults and children.
(about 12 - 15% of elderly people take both an nsaid and an antihypertensive drug.)
people with high blood pressure, severe circulation disorders, or kidney or liver problems, as well as people taking diuretics or oral hypoglycemics, must be closely monitored if they need to use nsaids on a long-term basis.
the following tips may be helpful for cfs patients when embarking on an  exercise program: work with your health care provider to determine a good starting level of  activity for you.
reports have found that 75% of cfs patients who were able to engage in  exercise, particularly aerobic exercise, reported less fatigue and better daily  functioning and fitness after a year.
it is the primary reason for the low activity levels in these patients.
some studies have reported that a majority of cfs patients have allergies to foods, pollen, metals (such as nickel or mercury), or other substances.
blood tests will indicate the epstein-barr virus (ebv), which causes mononucleosis.
rofecoxib (vioxx) and valdecoxib (bextra) were withdrawn from the u.s. market following reports of heart attacks in patients taking the drugs.
some diseases, including systemic lupus erythematosus, multiple sclerosis, and rheumatoid arthritis, are caused by autoimmunity, a condition in which the person's immune system attacks the body's own tissues.
most patients say that while fatigue is the most incapacitating symptom, mental impairment, such as an inability to concentrate or remember, is the most distressing symptom.
developing regular daily routines around probable energy spurts or drops may  help establish a more predictable pattern.
overall, the recommended strategy for treatment includes a combination of the following: patients with the best chance for improvement are those who remain as active as possible and who seek to have some control over the course of the disorder.
blood tests will indicate the epstein-barr virus (ebv), which  causes mononucleosis.
there is no proven or reliable cure for cfs, and no drug has been developed  specifically for this disorder.
(psychoanalysis and other  interpersonal psychological therapies, which are concerned with subconscious  thoughts and early childhood memories, are not generally helpful for cfs  patients.)
patients are taught to  challenge and reverse negative beliefs (such as "i'm not good enough to  control this disease, so i'm a total failure."), and to use coping  statements ("where is the evidence that i can control this disease?") be flexible.
the centers for disease control and prevention (cdc) estimates that between 1 and 4 million people in the u.s. have the disease, but only half of people with cfs have seen their doctor for the condition.
goldman l, ausiello d. cecil medicine.
most of these  conditions can be confirmed with laboratory or x-ray/radiologic findings.
cognitive therapy may also be an  effective treatment for adolescents with cfs.
the primary goals of cognitive-behavioral therapy (referred to below as just cognitive therapy) are to change any distorted perceptions that individuals have of the world and of themselves, and to change their behavior accordingly.
(the damage gets better once the patient stops using the drug.)
patients should choose physicians who are willing to consider the problem as a medical condition with psychiatric components.
some cfs patients don't have much improvement from light therapy.
they are not useful, however, as the primary treatment for cfs.
overall, the recommended strategy for  treatment includes a combination of the following: a healthy diet antidepressant drugs in some cases, usually low-dose tricyclics cognitive-behavioral therapy (cbt) and graded exercise for certain patients medication sleep management techniques patients with the best chance for improvement are those who remain as  active as possible and who seek to have some control over the course of the  disorder.
depression in these patients was associated with lower  self-esteem and an increased likelihood of suicidal thoughts.
for patients with severe cfs that cannot be managed with lifestyle changes and standard medications, asking the physician about enrolling in any available clinical trials may be helpful.
spreading out more challenging tasks throughout the week
infectious mononucleosis and epstein-barr virus.
for  patients with severe cfs that cannot be managed with lifestyle changes and  standard medications, asking the physician about enrolling in any available  clinical trials may be helpful.
several studies have indicated that cognitive-behavioral therapy is an effective treatment for adolescents with cfs.back to top there is no proven or reliable cure for cfs, and no drug has been developed specifically for this disorder.
the longer  fatigue has continued without physical symptoms, the more likely that the  diagnosis is depression.
many diseases,  both benign and serious, can fully explain prolonged or chronic fatigue,  including: hepatitis hemochromatosis (a hereditary disease caused by iron overload) various forms of cancer neuromuscular diseases (such as myasthenia gravis)
however, studies have reported no higher incidence of nmh in chronic fatigue patients.
people who are severely obese often have symptoms of chronic fatigue because of the stress imposed by their weight.
they move to the perception that fatigue is only one negative  experience among many positive ones.
a number of studies have found many irregularities of the immune system.
in unusual cases,  patients are severely disabled and even bedridden.
chemical toxins play roles in different patients.
because nsaids reduce blood clotting, nsaid users who are scheduled for surgery should stop taking those drugs a week before the operation.
the following tips may be helpful for cfs patients when embarking on an exercise program: work with your health care provider to find a level of activity you can handle.
the popular antidepressants known as selective serotonin-reuptake inhibitors (ssris) may be helpful for the subgroup of cfs patients who experience significant depression.
cochrane database syst rev. july 2008(3):cd001027.back to top treating major depression meditation and stress cravings and weight loss your rights as a patient flu overview sleep and pain flu prevention the role of a caregiver how to quit for good cold and flu smarts for kids diet & energy choosing bone density tests bmi calculator calcium calculator diabetes risk quiz heart attack risk calculator calories burned calculator colon cancer risk quiz
the power of the mind to improve or oppose health problems is significant,  and treatments that promote a positive outlook are beneficial forany disease.
treatment is very individualized.
exercise is best performed in combination with cognitive behavioral therapy.
having strong, supportive relationships with family and friends can help cfs patients get better.
most commonly,  patients with cfs report that they have trouble fulfilling both home and work  responsibilities.
all cfs patients, in fact, have a lower exercise capacity than  healthy individuals, and over-exercising can intensify symptoms.
studies have not found any consistent association between emotional or personality disorders and cfs to explain a causal role.
although cbt doesn't bring patients completely back to normal, research has found that people who use the therapy have higher mental health scores, and are able to walk faster and with less fatigue than those who did not use cbt.
one study reported that a significant percentage of such remedies contain toxic metals.
one study found that children with cfs have more  difficulty than usual paying attention and remembering, which may explain why  these kids have more trouble in school than their peers.
among the many other common conditions that can lead to feelings of temporary exhaustion are the following: in most of these cases, fatigue can be relieved with adequate rest.
cbt is effective at reducing the symptoms of fatigue compared with usual care, and it appears to be more effective than other psychological therapies.
however, one study found that cfs patients have slower motor speed and reduced working memory than those without the condition, and these changes were independent of any psychological conditions or medication use.
sulindac has the smallest effect.
patients with cfs are more likely to lose their jobs, possessions, and support from friends and family than are people who have other conditions that cause fatigue.
studies have found that four out of five people with cfs are women, although women do not appear to have more severe symptoms than men with the disorder.
eating disorders, notably bulimia and anorexia, have been observed in patients with cfs.
unexplained chronic fatigue can be classified as cfs if the patient meets the following criteria: any other abnormality found during an exam or other tests that could explain cfs symptoms must be resolved before further attempting to classify the condition.
when considering cbt, patients and their families must be aware of such important differences in therapists.
most commonly, patients with cfs report that they have trouble fulfilling both home and work responsibilities.
however, no clear pattern has been found.
attending support groups with fellow patients may be very helpful.
back to top prognosis the physical severity of chronic fatigue syndrome varies.
in the 1930s through the 1950s, outbreaks of disease marked by prolonged fatigue were reported in the united states and many other countries.
(capacity varies greatly among cfs sufferers, however, and some  people may not be able to increase their aerobic intensity.)
however, a 2007 study found that taking two 10 mg doses of ritalin each day works much better than placebo at relieving fatigue and concentration problems.
patients are also given homework, which usually includes keeping a diary and attempting tasks that they have avoided because of previous negative attitudes.
start slowly and incrementally, beginning with as few as 3 -  5 minutes of moderate exercise a day.
studies have observed that some patients who fit the strict criteria for chronic fatigue syndrome also have symptoms of a condition known as neurally mediated hypotension (nmh).
fibromyalgia causes prolonged fatigue and widespread muscle aches.
a number of other conditions also may coexist with cfs and occur at higher-than-average rates among cfs patients: theories abound about the causes of chronic fatigue syndrome.
medications should be considered as a possible cause of fatigue if an individual has recently started, stopped, or changed medicines.
a person may not  realize the problem exists unless it is brought to his or her attention by a  sleeping partner or observer.
some diseases, including systemic lupus  erythematosus, multiple sclerosis, and rheumatoid arthritis, are caused by autoimmunity, a condition in which the person's immune system attacks the  body's own tissues.
although there is no evidence to support any specific dietary factors in  cfs, patients should be sure to maintain a healthy diet that includes: plenty of fresh, dark-colored fruits and vegetables, which are rich in  antioxidants fiber-rich foods limited saturated fats (found in animal products)
one panel of experts concluded that  relaxation and stress-reduction techniques were helpful in managing chronic  pain.
patients should be prepared to answer questions such as: the doctor may also ask about any changes in weight, or request that a patient monitor his or her morning and afternoon body temperatures.
it is  important to note that longstanding fatigue can be a sign of a serious medical  or psychological problem.
because cfs remains poorly understood, many  patients have problems finding good care.
they move to the perception that fatigue is only one negative experience among many positive ones.
none have been rigorously tested.
studies report that adolescents who  meet the criteria for cfs also have greater anxiety, depression, and school  absenteeism than their peers.
for cfs patients, this means learning to think differently about their fatigue, improving their ability to deal with stressful situations, and managing their disorder.
one panel of experts concluded that relaxation and stress-reduction techniques were helpful in managing chronic pain.
withdrawal from  caffeine can produce depression, fatigue, and headache.
studies report that most children and adolescents with cfs have psychiatric disorders.
rarely, patients treated for lyme disease continue to have nonspecific symptoms, which can last for years after antibiotic treatment and that resemble symptoms of chronic fatigue syndrome.
they should be very wary, however, if the physician recommends excessive and expensive treatments that may have serious adverse effects and that have no proven benefits.
cognitive therapy may also be an effective treatment for adolescents with cfs.
patients with cfs normally respond to much lower doses than those used to treat people with depression.
depression and severe mental disorders.
the centers for disease control (cdc), which established the definitions for chronic fatigue syndrome, recognizes depression as one of the symptoms of cfs.
cbt is designed to help cfs patients regain a sense of control, and is proving to have substantial benefits for some patients.
types of nsaids include aspirin, ibuprofen (motrin, advil, nuprin), and naproxen (aleve, naprosyn, naprelan, anaprox).
most of these conditions can be confirmed with laboratory or x-ray/radiologic findings.
for instance, some therapists believe that cfs is a purely psychological problem and that patients must reject the notion of physical causes, abandon all reliance on assistive devices, and participate in challenging exercise programs.
patients with cfs are more likely to lose their jobs, possessions, and  support from friends and family than are people who have other conditions that  cause fatigue.
in addition, dependency on or abuse of alcohol or illicit drugs may manifest as chronic fatigue.
hypothyroidism diabetes drugs and alcohol.
there is some evidence that stress may trigger cfs in people who are genetically at risk for the disease.
autoimmune diseases.
philadelphia, pa: saunders elsevier, 2007.
even if patients get progressively worse, however, the disorder is not fatal.
certain sleep disorders may cause persistent  fatigue and can be confused with cfs: sleep apnea is a common disorder that can cause daytime fatigue without  the patient being aware of the problem.
many patients have severe conditions, and some are very incapacitated (such as being wheelchair bound).
some patient groups and experts contend that such studies use only patients  with less severe conditions, and therefore the results do not apply to many cfs  patients.
some herbs, such as st. john's wort, ginkgo, and comfrey, may cause serious side effects and drug interactions.
it should be noted that everyone is exposed to many chemicals on a daily basis, and it is very difficult to determine whether chemicals are responsible for specific symptoms.
dysthymia is characterized by many of the same symptoms that occur  in major depression, but they are less intense and last much longer -- at least  2 years.
cbt is effective at reducing  the symptoms of fatigue compared with usual care, and it appears to be more  effective than other psychological therapies.
for instance, some  therapists believe that cfs is a purely psychological problem and that patients  must reject the notion of physical causes, abandon all reliance on assistive  devices, and participate in challenging exercise programs.
the early symptoms of these conditions may mimic some of those that appear in cfs, such as muscle and joint pain and fatigue.
people who are severely obese often have symptoms of  chronic fatigue because of the stress imposed by their weight.
psychostimulants include dexamphetamine, adderall, methylphenidate (ritalin) and ritalin-like drugs such as focalin, concerta, ritalin la, and metadate, as well as strattera and provigil.
a typical cognitive therapy program may involve the following measures: using both self-observation and specific tasks, patients gradually shift their fixed ideas that they are helpless against the fatigue that dominates their lives.
in one study, for example, cfs patients who believed their problem was chemically triggered were exposed to either an active chemical or a placebo (an inactive substance).
chronic fatigue syndrome/myalgic encephalomyelitis (or encephalopathy): diagnosis and management of cfs/me in adults and children.
hampton t. researchers find genetic clues to chronic fatigue syndrome.
many previously healthy patients with cfs become depressed and anxious  because they feel so exhausted all the time.
these diseases, like cfs, also occur more often in women than in men.
cbt can also help people manage their sleep problems and find the appropriate activity levels for them.
many patients are not covered by insurance or have difficulty finding good care, so available statistics may be incorrect.
one review of cfs trials reported that, of all
herbal remedies and dietary supplements are not regulated by the fda.
people ages 40 - 50 most often experience chronic fatigue.
it is important to note that different therapists may have different fundamental assumptions about cbt and may use different techniques.
activity management should  involve: balancing your time between activity, rest, and sleep
multiple chemical sensitivity.
herbal and dietary supplements.
a number of studies have found alterations in genes involved with immune function, communication between cells, and transfer of energy to cells.
studies are inconsistent, however, in reporting the presence of autoantibodies (antibodies that attack the body's own tissues) in cfs, and the disease is unlikely to be due to autoimmunity.
other antidepressants.
many cfs sufferers cannot work more than part-time.
an overdose can be life-threatening.
many diseases, both benign and serious, can fully explain prolonged or chronic fatigue, including: drugs and alcohol.
the goals of cognitive-behavioral therapy.
light therapy is best performed immediately after awakening in the morning.
in addition, any substance that can affect the body's chemistry can, like any drug, produce side effects that may be harmful.
medications should be considered as a possible cause of fatigue if an  individual has recently started, stopped, or changed medicines.
in many cases, cfs promotes psychological and social dysfunction.
a characteristic feature of fibromyalgia is the existence of at least 11 distinct sites of deep muscle tenderness that hurt when touched firmly.
cognitive-behavioral therapy
its immediate effects can be lightheadedness, nausea, and fainting.
one study found that children with cfs have more difficulty than usual paying attention and remembering, which may explain why these kids have more trouble in school than their peers.
these situations can contribute to, and even cause emotional disorders in susceptible individuals, which can worsen cfs.
graded exercise a number of studies have suggested that a graded exercise program, in which  patients perform increasingly more intense levels of exercise tailored to their  individual abilities, has benefits for many patients with cfs.
of particular interest to researchers are the following chemicals and other factors controlled by the hpa axis: it is still not clear whether any of these changes are causes of chronic fatigue syndrome, or merely findings in some patients.
depression is very common in the general population.
many patients are not covered by insurance  or have difficulty finding good care, so available statistics may be incorrect.
because of the difficulties in treating chronic fatigue syndrome, many patients seek alternative therapies.
although cbt doesn't bring  patients completely back to normal, research has found that people who use the  therapy have higher mental health scores, and are able to walk faster and with  less fatigue than those who did not use cbt.
other therapists do  not attempt to change patients' underlying beliefs, but instead focus on  helping patients conserve energy and better cope with the limitations of their  illness.
one theory is that allergens, like viral infections, may trigger a cascade of immune abnormalities leading to cfs.
several studies have indicated  that cognitive-behavioral therapy is an effective treatment for adolescents  with cfs.
for  example, tasks are broken down into incremental steps and patients focus on one  step at a time.
other therapists do not attempt to change patients' underlying beliefs, but instead focus on helping patients conserve energy and better cope with the limitations of their illness.
piroxicam, naproxen, and indomethacin appear to pose the greatest risk of high blood pressure.
people who are  obese are also at higher risk for sleep apnea, which can confuse the diagnosis.
cfs occurs in both sexes, at all ages, and in all racial and ethnic groups.
the patient uses the  diary to track any factors, such as a job or relationship, that may be making  the fatigue worse or better.
some patients  experience profound fatigue following even modest exercise.
some components appear to be over-reactive, while others appear to be under-reactive, but no consistent picture has emerged to explain cfs as a disease of the immune system.
non-restorative sleep and nighttime restlessness are the most common complaints of people with cfs.
long-term outlook in adults because the illness remains elusive and poorly defined, and there are few  objective measures for recovery, experts have found it difficult to determine  the long-term course of the disease.
patients with depression generally perceive their illnesses differently than people with cfs: many previously healthy patients with cfs become depressed and anxious because they feel so exhausted all the time.
of specific concern are studies suggesting that up to 30% of herbal remedies imported from china have been laced with potent pharmaceuticals, such as phenacetin and steroids.
over-coping and accomplishing too much too soon can often  cause a relapse of symptoms.
however, numerous reports of cardiovascular events, skin rashes, and other adverse effects prompted the fda to re-evaluate the risks and benefits of the cox-2 drugs.
multiple chemical sensitivity (mcs) is a term now used to describe a condition in which certain chemicals are believed to cause symptoms similar to cfs in some people.
athough general intelligence is not impaired, cfs patients may test lower in certain mental functions, particularly speed and efficiency in processing complex information, and 40 - 60% have memory impairments.
cox-2 inhibitors (coxibs).
most studies indicate that girls are more likely than boys to develop cfs, although one study found the incidence of the syndrome to be equal in children of both genders.
nor is there any specific brain or nervous system problem that experts can point to with assurance.
psychological factors during childhood may increase susceptibility for cfs later in life, although studies have not found any consistent association between emotional or personality disorders and cfs to explain any causal role.
even if a diagnosis of chronic fatigue syndrome is considered, doctors should keep track of any changes in symptoms over time to rule out these serious illnesses.
patients with cfs may find relief using nsaids -- common pain relievers that reduce pain and swelling.
outlook in children although children with symptoms of chronic fatigue have not been as  rigorously studied as adults, limited evidence suggests that cfs can be  significantly disabling in young people.
these techniques also can help relieve the stress associated with the  disease.
still, some studies indicate that children have a better prognosis than  adults and most will recover after 1 - 4 years.
about 40% of people who report symptoms of cfs have another medical or psychiatric condition, according to the cdc.
although experts have long been divided on whether infections play any role in this disorder, subtypes of viral-related and non-viral cfs may both exist.
patients and doctors should not overlook these diseases, even if the conditions have been previously treated, because they may not have completely resolved or they may cause residual fatigue.
some experts believe  that patients who are diagnosed with cfs should be referred to therapists  trained in cognitive-behavioral therapy.
the symptoms of dysthymia have been described as a "veil of  sadness" that covers most activities.
other tricyclics include doxepin (sinequan), desipramine (norpramin), nortriptyline (pamelor), clomipramine (anafranil), and imipramine (tofranil, janimine).
psychostimulants may be helpful for a subgroup of patients with cfs who have cognitive problems, such as difficulty concentrating, memory problems, and other attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (adhd)-like characteristics.
depression in these patients was associated with lower self-esteem and an increased likelihood of suicidal thoughts.
patients must be prepared to adapt to energy variations.
back to top no medications are specifically approved to treat cfs.
due to its proven cardiovascular benefits, aspirin was excluded from these labeling revisions.
beginning in the early- to mid-1980s, interest in chronic fatigue syndrome was revived by reports in america and other countries of various outbreaks of long-term debilitating fatigue.
because of the association between depression and cfs, antidepressants are often tried, with varying degrees of success.
one review of cfs trials reported that, of all therapies available to cfs patients, only cognitive behavioral therapy (cbt) and graded exercise showed conclusive benefits.
celecoxib (celebrex) was still available at the time of this report, but labeled with strong warnings and a recommendation that it be prescribed at the lowest possible dose for the shortest duration possible.
the rates of depression are very high in cfs patients, possibly higher than in patients with other conditions (notably fibromyalgia and multiple chemical sensitivity).
patients seek out activities that are  appealing, focus attention, and help increase alertness.
it primarily affects adolescents and young adults.
people who are obese are also at higher risk for sleep apnea, which can confuse the diagnosis.
in fact, many experts believe fibromyalgia is simply another variant of chronic fatigue syndrome or they are different manifestations of the same disease.
other conditions that commonly coexist with cfs.
autoimmune abnormalities.
these techniques also can help relieve the stress associated with the disease.
fatigue is a side effect of many prescription and  over-the-counter medications, such as antihistamines.
knoop h, stulemeijer m, de jong lw, fiselier tj, bleijenberg g. efficacy of cognitive behavioral therapy for adolescents with chronic fatigue syndrome: long-term follow-up of a randomized, controlled trial.
there have been a number of reported cases of serious and even lethal side effects from herbal products.
post-lyme disease syndrome.
the following proposed criteria can help recognize people with mcs: as with cfs and fibromyalgia, there is uncertainty as to whether mcs is an actual medical condition or is psychologically based.
young patients who received cbt have reported improvements in fatigue, functional status, and school attendance.
cbt is designed to help cfs patients regain a sense of control, and is  proving to have substantial benefits for some patients.
gene profiling of patients with chronic fatigue syndrome/myalgic encephalomyelitis.
conditions that cause joint pain, muscle aches, or both.
back to top it is very difficult to diagnose chronic fatigue syndrome.
back to top the physical severity of chronic fatigue syndrome varies.
using both self-observation and specific tasks, patients gradually shift  their fixed ideas that they are helpless against the fatigue that dominates  their lives.
the effects of cfs on mental functioning are complex.
the early symptoms of these conditions may mimic some of  those that appear in cfs, such as muscle and joint pain and fatigue.
the patient adjusts schedules to conform to energy peaks  and valleys recorded in the diary.
unexplained chronic fatigue describes fatigue that lasts for more than 6 months, impairs normal activities, and has no identifiable medical or psychological problems to account for it.
patients should choose physicians who are willing to consider the  problem as a medical condition with psychiatric components.
no scientific evidence exists that vitamin and mineral supplements will relieve cfs, but some people do report that they find supplements helpful.
the risk profile for chronic fatigue syndrome is similar to the risk profiles for a number of autoimmune diseases.
a number of more serious conditions may cause  persistent fatigue and other symptoms of cfs and should be ruled out.
researchers have identified many different genes in patients with cfs related to blood disease, immune system function, and infection.
a number of more serious conditions may cause persistent fatigue and other symptoms of cfs and should be ruled out.
this impaired mental function occurs even if there is no depression or other psychiatric disorders.
some of these therapies, such as acupuncture, yoga, and relaxation techniques, may be helpful and are not dangerous.
mental incapacity most patients say that while fatigue is the most incapacitating symptom,  mental impairment, such as an inability to concentrate or remember, is the most  distressing symptom.
doctors can usually distinguish these diseases from  cfs after a clinical evaluation and laboratory testing.
patients with seasonal affective disorder (sad) experience more depression during the winter, when the hours of sunlight decrease.
narcolepsy is a peculiar and rare disorder in which a person suddenly  falls asleep without any previous signs of fatigue.
because the illness remains elusive and poorly defined, and there are few objective measures for recovery, experts have found it difficult to determine the long-term course of the disease.
bearing these factors in mind, some studies have reported that more than half of patients who complain of chronic fatigue are still fatigued at 2 years.
the diary serves as a  general guide for setting limits and planning activities.
still, it is not clear what sequence of events actually leads to the fatigue and other prominent symptoms of this disorder.
in the revised definition, chronic fatigue syndrome is considered a subset of chronic fatigue, a broader category defined as unexplained fatigue that lasts for 6 months or longer.
other side effects of nsaids include: nsaids can cause kidney damage.
symptoms of major depression include the following: major depression is likely if a person has several of these symptoms and no physical symptoms (such as sore throat, aches and pains, or fever).
common side effects of many antidepressants include: virtually all antidepressants have complicated interactions with other drugs, and some of these interactions are very serious.
however, most allergic people do not have cfs.
with light therapy (phototherapy), the patient sits for about 30 minutes each day a few feet away from a box-like device that emits very bright fluorescent light (4,000 lux).
as with all medications, tricyclics must be taken as directed.
in one study, 36% of cfs  patients were depressed.
researchers have found that people with cfs have altered amounts of slow  wave sleep, which could indicate a problem with sleep regulation.
some patients may have fatigue that lasts for  many months.
a number of studies have suggested that a graded exercise program, in which patients perform increasingly more intense levels of exercise tailored to their individual abilities, has benefits for many patients with cfs.
because cfs remains poorly understood, many patients have problems finding good care.
a doctor should first take a careful personal and family medical history (which may include a psychological profile), as well as perform a thorough physical examination.
non-restorative sleep and nighttime restlessness are the most common complaints  of people with cfs.
young patients who received cbt  have reported improvements in fatigue, functional status, and school attendance.
some patients experience profound fatigue following even modest exercise.
infectious mononucleosis is marked by fatigue and swollen glands.
like cfs, fibromyalgia is chronic and not curable.
once you  reach 30 minutes a day, start to increase the aerobic intensity of your  workouts.
cfs may also lead to highly  stressful socioeconomic situations, such as social isolation and poverty.
the best diagnostic approach is to determine whether the patient matches the criteria for cfs and to rule out other possible causes of symptoms.
the power of the mind to improve or oppose health problems is significant, and treatments that promote a positive outlook are beneficial forany disease.
more research is needed to study the long-term effects of ritalin on cfs patients.
these patients are unlikely to be able to do graded exercise.
children and adolescents can also have cfs.
a number of experts believe that cfs develops from a convergence of conditions that may include the following: for example, most patients report some moderate-to-serious physical illness (such as a chronic viral infection) or emotional event (like an episode of depression) before cfs.
because most of the features of cfs resemble those of a lingering viral illness, many researchers have focused on the possibility that a virus or some other infectious agent causes the syndrome in some cases.
all cfs patients, in fact, have a lower exercise capacity than healthy individuals, and over-exercising can intensify symptoms.
although a variety of studies have attempted to identify factors that predict a more chronic or severe course, no clear conclusions can be made.
they should not consider them a sign of treatment failure or personal  failure.
a review of clinical trials found that  exercise therapy is beneficial for cfs, particularly when combined with patient  education.
this system controls important functions, including sleep, stress response, and depression.
external distractions, such  as music or talking, are kept to a minimum.
recurrent sore throat, headache, low fever, and depression are also common symptoms of fibromyalgia.
psychological factors, then, are unlikely to be a primary cause of cfs.
nmh causes a dramatic drop in blood pressure when a person stands up, even for as little as 10 minutes.
a number of conditions overlap or coexist with chronic fatigue syndrome and have similar symptoms.
cfs patients experience severe fatigue, whereas fibromyalgia patients experience more pain.
a number of illnesses cause one or more cfs symptoms, including arthritic symptoms, fever, and fatigue.
some psychological factors may, however, be risk factors for cfs.
they learn to request  instructions given as concise, simple statements.
newer, so-called designer ssris, including bupropion (wellbutrin), nefazodone (serzone), or mirtazapine (remeron), affect combinations of different neurotransmitters, and some may have moderate benefits for cfs patients.
a typical cognitive therapy program may involve the following measures: keep a diary.
symptoms of major depression include the following: a depressed mood every day significant weight gain or loss (10% or more of an individual's usual body  weight) insomnia or excessive sleeping restlessness or a sense of being slowed down low energy every day worthless or inappropriately guilty feelings an inability to concentrate or make decisions suicidal thoughts loss of interest and enjoyment major depression is likely if a person has several of these symptoms and no  physical symptoms (such as sore throat, aches and pains, or fever).
these  diseases, like cfs, also occur more often in women than in men.
antidepressants known as tricyclics may be particularly helpful for cfs patients.
the primary goals of  cognitive-behavioral therapy (referred to below as just cognitive therapy)
other sleep disorders that cause daytime fatigue include insomnia and  restless legs syndrome.
patients with cfs may also have a diagnosis of fibromyalgia, multiple chemical sensitivity, or both.
athough general intelligence is not impaired, cfs patients may test lower  in certain mental functions, particularly speed and efficiency in processing  complex information, and 40 - 60% have memory impairments.
confront negative or discouraging thoughts.
dysthymia is characterized by many of the same symptoms that occur in major depression, but they are less intense and last much longer -- at least 2 years.
in one study, sharing experiences in a group therapy setting proved to be the most valuable component in treatment, and it improved patients' coping abilities.
the goal is to increase activity by about  20% every 2 - 3 weeks, until you can handle about 30 minutes a day.
cfs patients, even those who also have depression or dysthymia, tend to  identify medical causes as the source of their problems and to focus on  physical symptoms.
fuller-thomson e, nimigon j. factors associated with depression among individuals with chronic fatigue syndrome: findings from a nationally representative survey.
rarely, patients treated for lyme  disease continue to have nonspecific symptoms, which can last for years after  antibiotic treatment and that resemble symptoms of chronic fatigue syndrome.
one hypothesis is that the connection between the two conditions may be found in central sensitization, which is thought to cause fibromyalgia and may also cause cfs.
a number of  illnesses cause one or more cfs symptoms, including arthritic symptoms, fever,  and fatigue.
cfs has been linked with genes involved in the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis and the sympathetic nervous system.
the symptoms of dysthymia have been described as a "veil of sadness" that covers most activities.
are  to change any distorted perceptions that individuals have of the world and of  themselves, and to change their behavior accordingly.
even if a diagnosis of  chronic fatigue syndrome is considered, doctors should keep track of any  changes in symptoms over time to rule out these serious illnesses.
doctors generally use combinations of drugs to accomplish specific goals, such as medication at night to improve sleep and medication in the morning to improve cognition and energy.
although a variety of studies have attempted to identify factors that predict a  more chronic or severe course, no clear conclusions can be made.
both groups reported symptoms, including those exposed only to the placebo.
patients learn to drop some of the less critical tasks or  delegate them to others.
other medical conditions that usually rule out cfs.
such patients can do  virtually nothing -- even light housework.
these drugs include fluoxetine (prozac), sertraline (zoloft), and paroxetine (paxil).
however, according to the cdc, anyone with a history of major depression or other severe psychiatric disorders, including bipolar disorder and schizophrenia, does not meet the criteria for chronic fatigue syndrome.
for example, the tricyclic amitriptyline (elavil) is known to relieve many of the symptoms of cfs, including sleeplessness and low energy levels.
some  experts believe that the impaired mental functioning is due to depression,  which is common in cfs patients.
establish limits and keep within them to avoid overexertion and relapse.
still, not all cfs patients show signs of infection.
cbt is usually performed over 6 - 20 sessions, each  lasting about an hour.
the centers for disease  control (cdc), which established the definitions for chronic fatigue syndrome,  recognizes depression as one of the symptoms of cfs.
the patient is almost always asked to keep an energy diary,  which can be a key component of cfs cognitive therapy.
back to top in studies of large patient groups, 15 - 27% of people complain of long-term fatigue, but the majority of this fatigue can be explained by other medical or psychological problems.
extreme exercise excessive stress in most of these cases, fatigue can be relieved with adequate rest.
[epub ahead of print].
a number of relaxation techniques are available, including: light therapy.
omega-3 essential fatty acids, found in certain fish and oils increased salt (only for those with low blood pressure) starchy foods, particularly for nausea other approaches for managing chronic fatigue syndrome stress reduction techniques.
patients are also given homework, which usually includes  keeping a diary and attempting tasks that they have avoided because of previous  negative attitudes.
cognitive therapy is particularly helpful for defining and setting limits, behaviors that are extremely important for these patients.
manage impaired concentration.
according to surveys, chronic fatigue syndrome (cfs) itself affects more than four out of every 1,000 americans.
the complex relationship between physical and emotional factors has yet to be fully understood, however.
according to these guidelines, cfs may be diagnosed if the person has disabling fatigue that starts suddenly, lasts a long time, keeps coming back, and can't be explained by another condition.
some patients may have fatigue that lasts for many months.
these drugs may provide benefits by promoting deep sleep and inhibiting pain pathways in the nervous system.
haig-ferguson a, tucker p, eaton n, hunt l, crawley e. memory and attention problems in children with cfs/me.arch dis child.
national institute for health and clinical excellence.
a  number of relaxation techniques are available, including: biofeedback
when considering cbt, patients and their families must be aware of  such important differences in therapists.
the conditions often have overlapping risk factors, although it is unclear whether one causes the other.
convergence of factors.
cfs may also lead to highly stressful socioeconomic situations, such as social isolation and poverty.
these genes control response to trauma, injury, and other stressful events.
it affects up to one-fifth of all americans at some point in their lives, and most depressed people feel fatigued.
infectious  mononucleosis is marked by fatigue and swollen glands.
studies report that adolescents who meet the criteria for cfs also have greater anxiety, depression, and school absenteeism than their peers.
nsaids can also increase blood pressure, particularly among people already being treated for hypertension.
cymbalta (duloxetine) is a new antidepressant that is classified as a selective serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (ssnri).
this means that manufacturers and distributors do not need fda approval to sell their products.
some patients report great benefits from yoga or tai  chi, which combine exercise with meditation.
reports have found that 75% of cfs patients who were able to engage in exercise, particularly aerobic exercise, reported less fatigue and better daily functioning and fitness after a year.
chronic fatigue is considered a subset of prolonged fatigue, which is defined as fatigue that lasts for 1 month or more.
tricyclics should not be taken together with ssris, because of the possibility of dangerous side effects.
a review of clinical trials found that exercise therapy is beneficial for cfs, particularly when combined with patient education.
these  situations can contribute to, and even cause emotional disorders in susceptible  individuals, which can worsen cfs.
apnea is actually a breathing disorder  that is often marked by loud snoring and thrashing in bed.
however, some may be useful for pain or other symptoms, or in cases where cfs may have a specific cause.
however, they may play a role in increasing susceptibility to the disorder.
although nsaids work well, long-term use can cause stomach problems, such as ulcers and bleeding.
standard tests are typically recommended to rule out specific conditions that can cause persistent fatigue.
that said, research has found that certain components in urine are unique in people with cfs, and may someday be considered biomarkers of the disease.
in one study, 36% of cfs patients were depressed.
improvement in symptoms can take 3 - 4 weeks.
it is the primary  reason for the low activity levels in these patients.
it is  important to note that different therapists may have different fundamental  assumptions about cbt and may use different techniques.
instead of taking a  long nap, for instance, patients may need 5- to 10-minute rest periods every  hour or more, possibly involving relaxation or meditation.
in may 2006, the centers for disease control and prevention (cdc) released a revised definition for chronic fatigue syndrome based on a consensus of many of the leading cfs researchers and doctors (including input from patient group representatives).
popular herbal and dietary supplements for cfs include coenzyme q10, vitamin b12, vitamin c, magnesium, multivitamins, dhea, ginseng, and acetylcarnitine.
curr rheumatol rep. 2008;10:482-491.
then gradually increase your activity level.
patients should report any drugs they are taking, including vitamins and over-the-counter or herbal medications.
these tests include: no blood, urine, or other laboratory test can specifically diagnose cfs.
bearing these factors in mind, some studies have reported that more than half  of patients who complain of chronic fatigue are still fatigued at 2 years.
abnormal levels of certain chemicals regulated in the brain system known as the hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal (hpa) axis have been proposed as a cause of cfs.
cbt can  also help people manage their sleep problems and find the appropriate activity  levels for them.
however, cfs patients should try not to impose unreasonable expectations on loved ones.
the link between psychological disorders and chronic fatigue syndrome is problematic because so many of the symptoms overlap.
these patients are unlikely to be able to do  graded exercise.
even experts do not have a clear definition of what chronic fatigue actually is, or what mechanisms in the brain or nervous system are responsible for it.
supportive family and groups.
for instance, the patient may take a nap  during low-energy times and plan important activities during high-energy times.
fatigue is a side effect of many prescription and over-the-counter medications, such as antihistamines.
(psychoanalysis and other interpersonal psychological therapies, which are concerned with subconscious thoughts and early childhood memories, are not generally helpful for cfs patients.)
most reported problems occur in herbal remedies imported from asia.
however, the treatment may still help some patients with cfs whose symptoms are similar to those of patients with sad.
experiment with different forms of physical activity that suit your  available energy levels.
patients  and doctors should not overlook these diseases, even if the conditions have  been previously treated, because they may not have completely resolved or they  may cause residual fatigue.
patients with depression generally perceive their illnesses differently  than people with cfs: patients with depression have significantly lower self-esteem, more  thought distortions (for instance, focusing on the negative or personalizing  their situations), and believe their condition stemmed from psychological  factors.
it is not clear whether these and other conditions are risk factors for cfs, are direct causes, have common causes, or have no relationship at all with cfs.
it is important to note that longstanding fatigue can be a sign of a serious medical or psychological problem.
a persistent form of minor depression called dysthymia may be more difficult to differentiate from cfs and may actually account for a subset of cfs cases.
limits are designed to keep both mental and physical stress  within a manageable framework so that patients do not get discouraged by  forcing themselves into situations in which they are likely to fail.
however, some autoimmune diseases may evolve slowly.
it is the disease most often confused with cfs.
although children with symptoms of chronic fatigue have not been as rigorously studied as adults, limited evidence suggests that cfs can be significantly disabling in young people.
therapies available to cfs patients, only cognitive behavioral therapy (cbt)  and graded exercise showed conclusive benefits.
the two conditions also commonly appear together.
it primarily affects  adolescents and young adults.
tricyclic antidepressants.
setbacks will occur, but do not become discouraged.
people with cfs also can have the following symptoms: after ruling out other possible causes, the doctor should consider a diagnosis of cfs if symptoms have lasted for 4 months in adults or 3 months in children.
patients should respect these relapses and back  off.
a persistent form of minor depression called dysthymia may be more  difficult to differentiate from cfs and may actually account for a subset of  cfs cases.
in addition to fatigue, people may complain of other problems, such as difficulty with memory or concentration, headaches, or sore muscles or joints.
even if  patients get progressively worse, however, the disorder is not fatal.
causes diagnosis prognosis treatment chronic fatigue syndrome (cfs), sometimes called immune dysfunction syndrome or myalgic encephalomyelitis (in europe), is not a new disorder.
such patients can do virtually nothing -- even light housework.
this impaired mental  function occurs even if there is no depression or other psychiatric disorders.
certain sleep disorders may cause persistent fatigue and can be confused with cfs: researchers have found that people with cfs have altered amounts of slow wave sleep, which could indicate a problem with sleep regulation.
in the 19th century the term neurasthenia, or nervous exhaustion, was applied to symptoms resembling cfs.
in fact, many cfs patients cannot tolerate the higher doses commonly used to treat depression.
price jr, mitchell e, tidy e, hunot v. cognitive behaviour therapy for chronic fatigue syndrome in adults.
it is also used to track the times of day when  energy levels are at their highest and lowest.
in unusual cases, patients are severely disabled and even bedridden.
back to top treatment
breaking big tasks into smaller, more manageable ones avoiding doing too much on days when you feel tired healthy diet
many patients have severe conditions, and some are very incapacitated  (such as being wheelchair bound).
some so-called natural remedies have been found to contain standard prescription medication.
activity management work with your health care provider to find a level of activity you can  handle.
the longer fatigue has continued without physical symptoms, the more likely that the diagnosis is depression.
not all studies support the benefits of cognitive therapy for cfs.
coxibs block an inflammation-promoting enzyme called cox-2.
however, one study found that cfs patients  have slower motor speed and reduced working memory than those without the  condition, and these changes were independent of any psychological conditions  or medication use.
they should be very  wary, however, if the physician recommends excessive and expensive treatments  that may have serious adverse effects and that have no proven benefits.
this class of drugs was initially believed to work as well as traditional nsaids, but with fewer stomach problems.
cognitive therapy is particularly helpful for defining and  setting limits, behaviors that are extremely important for these patients.
if any test is abnormal, it is not useful for diagnosing cfs specifically, and the doctor should look for other causes of these abnormalities.
additionally, antibodies to epstein-barr virus, increased levels of isoprostanes, and decreased levels of alpha-tocopherol (vitamin e) -- markers of oxidative stress -- have been found in the blood of people with cfs.
nevertheless, researchers have been unable to determine how the genetic variations influence symptoms.
some patient groups and experts contend that such studies use only patients with less severe conditions, and therefore the results do not apply to many cfs patients.
withdrawal from caffeine can produce depression, fatigue, and headache.
patients should ask their doctor whether the drug is appropriate and safe for them.
psychological, personality, and social factors are strongly associated with chronic fatigue in most patients.
no primary cause has been found that explains all cases of cfs, and no blood tests or brain scans can definitively diagnose the condition.
however,  according to the cdc, anyone with a history of major depression or other severe  psychiatric disorders, including bipolar disorder and schizophrenia, does not  meet the criteria for chronic fatigue syndrome.
energy levels will most likely never be entirely predictable.
doctors can usually distinguish these diseases from cfs after a clinical evaluation and laboratory testing.
mcs has also been observed in people with cfs.
the nice guidelines for cfs do not advise taking dexamphetamine or ritalin.
exercise is best  performed in combination with cognitive behavioral therapy.
cbt is usually performed over 6 - 20 sessions, each lasting about an hour.
in april 2005, the fda asked nsaid manufacturers to include a warning label on their products that alerts users of an increased risk for cardiovascular events and gastrointestinal bleeding.
the symptoms of cfs may be categorized as follows: although the exact causes of cfs are not known, researchers think infection, genetics, hormonal imbalances, and
the theory that cfs has a viral cause is not based on hard evidence, but on various observations that suggest an association, such as the following: cfs has sometimes been referred to as the "chronic fatigue immune dysfunction syndrome."
activity management should involve: although there is no evidence to support any specific dietary factors in cfs, patients should be sure to maintain a healthy diet that includes: stress reduction techniques.
some experts theorize that such events, alone or in combination, may interact with certain neurologic and genetic abnormalities to trigger cfs.
in addition, dependency  on or abuse of alcohol or illicit drugs may manifest as chronic fatigue.
cfs patients should be wary of the following remedies: other alternative remedies with no proven benefit and possible toxic and dangerous side effects include: blockmans d, persoons p, van houdenhove b, bobbaers h. does methylphenidate reduce the symptoms of chronic fatigue syndrome?am
nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (nsaids).