search the site - home - about us - contact us - publications - privacy policy - disease reporting and control - 24/7 disease reporting - influenza reporting - frequently requested numbers - reportable diseases - who should report - title 17, section 2500 - unusual conditions
if you have these symptoms call your doctor right away: - have difficulty breathing - are dehydrated from vomiting and diarrhea - have a fever that is higher than 101 degrees after taking fever-reducing medicine like acetaminophen (e.g.,tylenol) or ibuprofen (e.g., motrin or advil) - feel very sick how is the flu spread?
guidance for sick individuals what to do if you are sick or think you may be infected with the flu
- immunization programs - flu vaccine program
most people sick with the flu have mild disease and do not need to see a doctor or get tested.
what are the emergency warning signs?
your caregiver  should not be pregnant, over 64 years old, or have medical conditions like  heart disease, lung disease, or weak immune system.
feel very sick how is the flu spread?
can i take medicines to help me feel better?
have everyone in the house use healthy habits: get vaccinated for the flu wash hands frequently with soap or water or use alcohol-based hand rub cover your mouth and nose with a tissue (or shirt sleeve) when sneezing,  coughing or blowing your nose don't share personal items like toothbrushes or drinks clean frequently touched items and surfaces with soap and water should people with the flu wear a mask?
- why report - healthy habits - clean your hands - cover your cough/sneeze - stay home sick - infection control - for practitioners - for facilities - disease control projects - chronic hepatitis registry - infect me not - immunizations - vaccines you need - adults - children & adolescents - where to get immunized - vaccine safety - resources & materials - vax fax: vaccine updates - immunization links - immunization registry - request materials - provider regulations - schools and child care - medical providers - immunization news and updates
have everyone in the house use healthy habits: - get vaccinated for the flu - wash hands frequently with soap or water or use alcohol-based hand rub - cover your mouth and nose with a tissue (or shirt sleeve) when sneezing, coughing or blowing your nose - don't share personal items like toothbrushes or drinks - clean frequently touched items and surfaces with soap and water should people with the flu wear a mask?
this page includes some of the most important steps for taking care of yourself and protecting others.
a person without the flu can get it by breathing in these wet drops, or by touching items and surfaces covered with these drops and then touching their mouth, nose or eyes.
flu home page flu facts guidance for sick individuals flu vaccines flu prevention health care guidance specific settings guidance materials for download sf dept of public health home | sf city & county home © copyright 1998 - 2012, department of public health, city and county of san franciscoprivacy policy| sitemap| contact us
the emergency room should be saved for people who are very sick.
- hepatitis programs - immunization registry - vaccines for children - san francisco immunization coalition - immunity campaign - emergency mass
if you are under 18 years of age  do not take aspirin or medicine with aspirin in it (e.g. pepto-bismol) because  this can cause a rare serious illness called reye's syndrome.
prophylaxis - aitc immunization & travel clinic - contact & visit us - international travelers - polio outbreak, china - public campaign to promote travelers health - immunization & testing - services for businesses - prices & deals - vaccine deals & eligibility - links - forms - about us - infectious disease emergencies - prepare - health alerts - register for health alerts - infectious disease plan - clinician emergency guide - recognizing bioterrorism - programs and activities - san francisco bay area advanced practice center - infectious disease a to z - diseases a to c - anthrax - avian influenza - botulism - brucellosis - burkholderia - diseases d to k - flu (influenza) - h1n1 swine flu - hepatitis a - hepatitis b - hepatitis c - diseases l to r - lyme disease - measles - meningococcal disease - mrsa - norovirus - pandemic influenza - pertussis - plague - rabies - diseases s to z - smallpox - swine flu - tularemia - vibrio infections - viral gastroenteritis - viral hemorrhagic fever - west nile virus - whooping cough - wound botulism - vaccine preventable - germs - bioterrorism agents infectious disease a to z / diseases d to k / flu (influenza) /
most people sick with the flu have mild disease and do not need to see a  doctor or get tested.
the flu is spread through tiny wet drops produced when a person  coughs, sneezes, or talks.
for more detailed guidance see the  following documents: flu frequently asked questions
wearing a face mask limits the spread of tiny infected drops  that are released when a person talks, coughs or sneezes.
someone who has the flu may  be able to spread it to others about 1 day before getting sick to 5 to 7 days  after they become sick.
if you are under 18 years of age do not take aspirin or medicine with aspirin in it (e.g. pepto-bismol) because this can cause a rare serious illness called reye's syndrome.
if you have these symptoms call your doctor right away: have difficulty breathing are dehydrated from vomiting and diarrhea have a fever that is higher than 101 degrees after taking fever-reducing  medicine like acetaminophen (e.g.,tylenol) or ibuprofen (e.g., motrin or advil)
pain or pressure in the chest or abdomen sudden dizziness
[english] [spanish ] [chinese] - flu home care guide [english] [spanish] [ chinese] when should i see a doctor?
- if you want, wear a face mask when around others.
do not have visitors try to avoid contact with other other people living with you if possible, choose a room in your home to stay in that is away from  others in your household (for example, a spare bedroom with bathroom)
do i need to go to the emergency room if i am only a little sick?
- stay home and stay away from others until 24 hours after the fever is gone (without the use of fever-reducing medicine like acetaminophen (e.g.,tylenol) or ibuprofen(e.g., motrin or advil)
do i need to take anti-viral medicines to treat the flu virus?
stay home and stay away from others until 24 hours after the fever is gone  (without the use of fever-reducing medicine like acetaminophen (e.g.,tylenol)  or ibuprofen(e.g., motrin or advil)
high risk people include: - people with lung disease like asthma - people with other medical conditions like diabetes, heart disease, kidney or liver disease, blood cell disease including sickle cell, or neurological disease that affects swallowing or breathing - pregnant women and women who have given birth within 2 weeks - children age 2 years and under - adults age 50 years and over - people with weak immune systems (due to disease or medicines)
wearing a face mask limits the spread of tiny infected drops that are released when a person talks, coughs or sneezes.
guidance for sick individuals what to do if you are sick or think you may be infected  with the flu this page includes some of the most important steps for taking care of  yourself and protecting others.
also, children under age 4 should not take over-the-counter cold medicines unless their doctor said to take the medicine.
what should i do to protect others from getting the flu?
if you are at high risk for getting very sick with the flu, contact  your doctor to discuss the need for treatment.
people are most contagious during the first 3 days of illness.
a sick person can wear a face mask when around others to help prevent the spread of flu.
to make your symptoms feel better, take medicines that you would normally  take like acetaminophen (e.g. tylenol) or ibuprofen (e.g., motrin or advil) if  your doctor has told you it is safe for you.
someone who has the flu may be able to spread it to others about 1 day before getting sick to 5 to 7 days after they become sick.
the flu is spread through tiny wet drops produced when a person coughs, sneezes, or talks.
your caregiver should not be pregnant, over 64 years old, or have medical conditions like heart disease, lung disease, or weak immune system.
contact a doctor right away if a young child has
if you want, wear a face mask when around others.
- do not have visitors - try to avoid contact with other other people living with you - if possible, choose a room in your home to stay in that is away from others in your household (for example, a spare bedroom with bathroom) - choose one person in the household as your caregiver.
to make your symptoms feel better, take medicines that you would normally take like acetaminophen (e.g. tylenol) or ibuprofen (e.g., motrin or advil) if your doctor has told you it is safe for you.
people are most contagious during the first 3 days of  illness.
most people with the flu get better without taking medicine.
your  doctor may prescribe anti-viral medicine if you are: very sick with a lung disease like asthma with a medical condition like diabetes, heart disease, kidney or liver  disease, blood cell disease including sickle cell, or neurological disease that  affects swallowing or breathing pregnant a child aged 2 years or under age 65 and up with a weakened immune system (from disease or medicines)
also, children  under age 4 should not take over-the-counter cold medicines unless their doctor  said to take the medicine.
anti-viral medicines are only available with a doctor's prescription.
anti-viral medicines are only available with a doctor's  prescription.
these emergency  warning signs: fast breathing or trouble breathing blue-ish color of skin, lips, or fingertips not drinking enough fluids or not urinating not waking up or not interacting being so irritable that the child does not want to be held flu-like symptoms that improve but then come back with fever and worse  cough fever with a rash contact a doctor right away if an older child or adult has these  emergency warning signs: difficulty breathing or shortness of breath
people should not go to the emergency room for a mild illness.
if you are at high risk for getting very sick with the flu, contact your doctor to discuss the need for treatment.
choose one person in the household as your caregiver.
your doctor may prescribe anti-viral medicine if you are: - very sick - with a lung disease like asthma - with a medical condition like diabetes, heart disease, kidney or liver disease, blood cell disease including sickle cell, or neurological disease that affects swallowing or breathing - pregnant - a child aged 2 years or under - age 65 and up - with a weakened immune system (from disease or medicines)
wearing a face mask  limits the spread of tiny infected drops that are released when a person talks,  coughs or sneezes.
[english]  [spanish ]  [chinese] flu home care guide [english]  [spanish]  [ chinese] when should i see a doctor?
infectious disease a to z /  diseases d to k / flu (influenza) /
high risk people include: people with lung disease like asthma people with other medical conditions like diabetes, heart disease, kidney  or liver disease, blood cell disease including sickle cell, or neurological  disease that affects swallowing or breathing pregnant women and women who have given birth within 2 weeks children age 2 years and under adults age 50 years and over people with weak immune systems (due to disease or medicines)
a person without the flu can get it by breathing in  these wet drops, or by touching items and surfaces covered with these  drops and then touching their mouth, nose or eyes.
a sick person can wear a face mask when around others to help prevent  the spread of flu.
for more detailed guidance see the following documents: - flu frequently asked questions
contact a doctor right away if a young child has these emergency warning signs: - fast breathing or trouble breathing - blue-ish color of skin, lips, or fingertips - not drinking enough fluids or not urinating - not waking up or not interacting - being so irritable that the child does not want to be held - flu-like symptoms that improve but then come back with fever and worse cough - fever with a rash contact a doctor right away if an older child or adult has these emergency warning signs: - difficulty breathing or shortness of breath - pain or pressure in the chest or abdomen - sudden dizziness - confusion - severe or persistent vomiting - not urinating when going to the doctor's office or the emergency room: - inform the staff ahead of time that you have the flu - if you call an ambulance, let the 911 operator know that you have the flu.
let the ambulance crew know too when they arrive - wear a face mask if you can - sit away from others as much as possible