it may be best to use this medicine at bedtime.
if you are using the medication regularly, use the missed dose as soon as you remember.
if you need to have any type of surgery, tell the surgeon ahead of time  that you are using rectal aspirin.
taking any of these drugs while you are  also use rectal aspirin may cause you to bruise or bleed easily.
what happens if i miss a dose?
this is not a complete list of side effects and others may occur.
this medication can cause you to have unusual results with certain medical tests.
if you take certain products together you may accidentally take too much aspirin.
do not use any other  over-the-counter medication without first asking your doctor or pharmacist.
for best results from the suppository, lie down after inserting it and hold  in the suppository for a few minutes.
tell any doctor who treats you that you are using rectal aspirin.
remove the outer wrapper from the suppository before inserting it.
avoid handling the suppository too long or it will melt in your hands.
avoid  using the bathroom just after you have inserted the suppository.
do not use this medication  without telling your doctor if you are breast-feeding a baby.
this medication comes with patient instructions for using the rectal  suppository.
before using rectal aspirin, tell your doctor if you are using any of the following drugs: - alprostadil (caverject, edex); - epitifibatide (integrilin); - tirofiban (aggrastat); - probenecid (benemid); - divalproex (depakote) or valproic acid (depacon, depakene); - an antacid or laxative; - a blood thinner such as heparin or warfarin (coumadin); - cancer medicine such as abciximab (reopro), methotrexate (folex, rheumatrex, folex); - insulin or diabetes medicine you take by mouth; - an antibiotic such as cefemandole (maxipime), cefotetan (cefotan), ciprofloxacin (cipro), demeclocycline (declomycin), doxycycline (doryx, periostat, vibramycin), minocycline (dynacin, minocin), norfloxacin (noroxin), ofloxacin (floxin), piperacillin (pipracil), tetracycline (broadspec, panmycin, sumycin), ticarcillin (ticar), vancomycin (vancocin); - an antifungal such as itraconazole (sporanox) or ketoconazole (nizoral); - medication used to prevent blood clots, such as alteplase (activase), clopidogrel (plavix), dipyridamole (persantine), ticlopidine (ticlid), and urokinase (abbokinase); - salicylates such as disalcid, doan's pills, dolobid, salflex, tricosal; or - nsaids (non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs) such as ibuprofen (motrin, advil), diclofenac (voltaren), diflunisal (dolobid), etodolac (lodine), flurbiprofen (ansaid), indomethacin (indocin), ketoprofen (orudis), ketorolac (toradol), mefenamic acid (ponstel), meloxicam (mobic), nabumetone (relafen), naproxen (aleve, naprosyn), piroxicam (feldene).
your use of the content provided in this service indicates that you have read, understood and agree to the end-user license agreement, which can be accessed byclicking on this link.
before using rectal aspirin, tell your doctor if you are allergic to any  drugs, foods, or dyes, or if you have: kawasaki disease; a bleeding or blood clotting disorder such as hemophilia; glaucoma; a stomach ulcer or bleeding; a weak immune system; high blood pressure or heart disease; kidney disease; or liver disease.
avoid using the bathroom just after you have inserted the suppository.
you may report side effects to fda at 1-800-fda-1088.
how should i use rectal aspirin?
avoid  handling the suppository too long or it will melt in your hands.
it is not known whether rectal aspirin passes into  breast milk or if it could harm an unborn baby.
- a growing problem: obesity in kids -
since rectal aspirin is sometimes used as needed, you may not be on a  dosing schedule.
- © 2011 swedish covenant hospital - contact us - site map - copyright and legal - vendor compliance - privacy statement - spanish (pdf) - korean (pdf) - russian (pdf) 5145 n california avenue, chicago, illinois 60625 773.878.8200
read the  label of any other medicine you are using to see if it contains aspirin.
taking any of these drugs while you are also use rectal aspirin may cause you to bruise or bleed easily.
when pediatric hospitalization is necessary - common questions on childhood asthma - discover the fact and fiction behind many popular home remedies - all kids, familycare and moms and babies - health care and services at home - services - home health care - housecalls: mobile medical program - team of clinicians - meet the home health care team - meet the housecalls medical director and nurse practitioners - resources and faqs - home health care faqs - housecalls frequently asked questions - education and services for care givers - education and services for patients - location and contact - home health care contact information and service area - housecalls contact information and service area - philosophy of care - laboratory and blood work - mental health services - mental health services - psychological services - psychiatric services - team of clinicians - midwifery - services - team of clinicians - resources and faq's - location and contact - philosophy of care - ophthalmology (eye health) - orthopedic program - orthopedic program overview - orthopedic services and treatments - joint replacement program - resources and faqs - articles by dr. levi: cartilage injuries - miniminally invasive hip surgery - unique orthopedic offerings - physical therapy and rehabilitation - physicians - location and contact - pain management - pain management services - conditions treated with pain management - pain management procedures - lidocaine infusions - team of clinicians - resources and faqs - scheduling your appointment - preparing for your appointment - performance outcomes - pediatrics - well-child exams - team of clinicians - resources and faqs - preparing for your child’s appointment - common health advice for parents - prenatal visit faqs - new born guide - other health resources - baby 411 - location and contact - philosophy of care - physical therapy - post-hospital services - resources and faqs - nursing home evaluation checklists - living in a nursing home: myths and realities - skilled nursing facility and other resources - pulmonary rehabilitation - radiology services - radiology services - interventional radiology - uterine fibroid embolization - vertebroplasty: advanced treatment for osteoporosis - bone density screening - cardiac scoring - technology - mri technology - ct technology - rehabilitation services - physical therapy - specialty programs - occupational therapy - speech-language pathology - work conditioning - resources and faq’s - balance center - primary stroke center certification - sleep and neurodiagnostic center - services - overnight sleep studies - treatment options - resources and faqs - surgical services - surgical procedures - robotic surgery - da vinci si robotic surgery system - benefits of the da vinci si robotic surgery system - our expert surgeons - how to schedule a robotic surgery appointment - resources and faq’s
it is for  use only in your rectum.
what other drugs will affect rectal aspirin?
flurbiprofen (ansaid), indomethacin (indocin), ketoprofen (orudis), ketorolac  (toradol), mefenamic acid (ponstel), meloxicam (mobic), nabumetone (relafen),  naproxen (aleve, naprosyn), piroxicam (feldene), and others.
what happens if i overdose?
rectal aspirin should not be used in a child or teenager who has a fever, especially if the child also has flu symptoms or chicken pox.
if you have questions about the drugs you are taking, check with your doctor, nurse or pharmacist.
overdose symptoms may include severe nausea, vomiting, or diarrhea, ringing  in the ears, confusion, headache, increased thirst, severe drowsiness,  uncontrolled muscle twitching, shortness of breath, bloody urine,  hallucinations, or seizure (convulsions).
what should i discuss with my health care provider before using rectal  aspirin?
ask your doctor or pharmacist if you have any questions.
tell your doctor at any time if you have new or  worsening symptoms.
for best results from the suppository, lie down after inserting it and hold in the suppository for a few minutes.
before using rectal aspirin, tell your doctor if you are using any of the  following drugs: alprostadil (caverject, edex);
this medication can cause you to have unusual results with certain medical  tests.
if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the  missed dose and wait until your next regularly scheduled dose.
definitions - wound care frequently asked questions - location and contact - events & classes - careers - employment opportunities - physician opportunities - benefits - health - time - knowledge - spirit - money - lifeworks program - residency programs - residency opportunities - family medicine residency program - osteopathic internal medicine residency program - traditional rotating internship - salary and benefits - requirements and contracts - residency photo gallery - medical students - testimonials from our residents - meet our current residents - nursing - journey to magnet excellence - magnet force 1: quality of nursing leadership - magnet force 2:
resources - childbirth - childbirth services - family birthing center - midwifery services - technology - resources and faq’s - childbirth classes - preregistration information - dermatology - emergency services - services - resources and faqs - family health - family health services - family practice center - pediatric services - affordable pre-natal and pediatric services - emergency situations - diabetes community center - medical nutrition counseling - adolescent programs - resources and faqs
tell your doctor if you are taking an antidepressant such as citalopram  (celexa), duloxetine (cymbalta), escitalopram (lexapro), fluoxetine (prozac,  sarafem, symbyax), fluvoxamine (luvox), paroxetine (paxil), sertraline  (zoloft), or venlafaxine (effexor).
it works by reducing substances in the body that cause pain and inflammation.
multum does not assume any responsibility for any aspect of healthcare administered with the aid of information multum provides.
do not start using a new medication without telling your doctor.
this list is not complete and there may be other drugs not listed that can interact with aspirin.
before using rectal aspirin, tell your doctor if you are allergic to any drugs, foods, or dyes, or if you have: - kawasaki disease; - a bleeding or blood clotting disorder such as hemophilia; - glaucoma; - a stomach ulcer or bleeding; - a weak immune system; - asthma or nasal polyps; - high blood pressure or heart disease; - kidney disease; or - liver disease.
do not use this medication without telling your doctor if you are breast-feeding a baby.
aspirin is in a group of drugs called salicylates.
the suppository will melt quickly once inserted and you should feel little or no discomfort while holding it in.
what are the possible side effects of rectal aspirin?
aspirin can  cause a serious and sometimes fatal condition called reye's syndrome.
try to empty your bowel and bladder just before using the rectal aspirin  suppository.
do not use the medication in larger or smaller amounts, or use it for longer than recommended.
healthwise disclaims any warranty or liability for your use of this information.
multum's drug information does not endorse drugs, diagnose patients or recommend therapy.
aspirin can cause a  serious and sometimes fatal condition called reye's syndrome.
flurbiprofen (ansaid), indomethacin (indocin), ketoprofen (orudis), ketorolac (toradol), mefenamic acid (ponstel), meloxicam (mobic), nabumetone (relafen), naproxen (aleve, naprosyn), piroxicam (feldene), and others.
stop using rectal aspirin and call your doctor at once if you have any of these serious side effects: - black, bloody, or tarry stools; - blood in your urine; - coughing up blood or vomit that looks like coffee grounds; - pale skin, easy bruising or bleeding; - wheezing, chest tightness, trouble breathing; - decreased hearing or ringing in the ears; - seizure (convulsions); or - dizziness, confusion, or hallucinations.
well community - mobile version - swedish covenant medical group - galter lifecenter skip to main content main menu - find a doc - medical services - cancer services - cancer services - screening and diagnostics - mammogram availability - breast health program - treatment options - support and rehabilitation services - specialties - breast cancer - colon cancer - liver cancer - prostate cancer - technology - imrt delivers radiation with pinpoint precision - resources and faqs - guidelines for yearly cancer screenings - cancer services publications - patient and family support services - screening events and community-based programs - myths and misunderstandings on breast cancer - philosophy of care - accreditations and awards - swedish covenant hospital nurse recognized as 2008 yoplait champion - cardiology and heart services - cardiac services - cardiac testing - cardiac treatment - cardiac rehabilitation - pulmonary rehabilitation - cardiac facilities - philosophy of care - chicago back institute - chicago back institute overview - back pain treatments - minimally invasive herniated disk procedures - si joint stabilization - team of clinicians - philosophy of care - chicago back institute location and contact - chicago back institute in our community - spine and back
multum information has been compiled for use by healthcare practitioners and consumers in the united states and therefore multum does not warrant that uses outside of the united states are appropriate, unless specifically indicated otherwise.
use this medication exactly as directed on the label, or as it has been prescribed by your doctor.
it may be  best to use this medicine at bedtime.
brand: aspirin what is the most important information i should know about rectal aspirin?
what should i avoid while using rectal aspirin?
aspirin is also used to treat the symptoms of arthritis and rheumatic fever.
the absence of a warning for a given drug or drug combination in no way should be construed to indicate that the drug or drug combination is safe, effective or appropriate for any given patient.
ask your doctor or pharmacist  if you have any questions.
stop using rectal aspirin and call your doctor at once if you have  any of these serious side effects: black, bloody, or tarry stools; blood in your urine; coughing up blood or vomit that looks like coffee grounds; pale skin, easy bruising or bleeding; wheezing, chest tightness, trouble breathing; decreased hearing or ringing in the ears; seizure (convulsions); or less serious side effects may include: nausea, vomiting, stomach pain; or rectal irritation.
do not use this medication if you are allergic to aspirin or other nsaids (non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs) such as ibuprofen (motrin, advil), diclofenac (voltaren), diflunisal (dolobid), etodolac (lodine),
do not refrigerate or freeze them.
overdose symptoms may include severe nausea, vomiting, or diarrhea, ringing in the ears, confusion, headache, increased thirst, severe drowsiness, uncontrolled muscle twitching, shortness of breath, bloody urine, hallucinations, or seizure (convulsions).
tell your doctor about all the prescription and over-the-counter medications you use.
how this information was developed to help you make better health decisions.
aspirin also reduces  fever.
if you are using the medication regularly, use the missed dose  as soon as you remember.
organizational structure - magnet force 3: management style - magnet force 4: personnel policies and programs - magnet force 5: professional models of care - magnet force 6: quality of care - magnet force 7: quality improvement - magnet force 8: consultation and resources - magnet force 9: autonomy - magnet force 10: community and the healthcare organization - magnet force 11: nurses as teachers - magnet force 12: image of nursing - magnet force 13: interdisciplinary relationships - magnet force 14: professional development - nursing photo gallery - testimonials from our nurses - awards and recognition - board-certified nurses - careers in nursing - education and resources - 2011 summer nursing camp - volunteering - about volunteering at swedish covenant hospital - how to become a volunteer - volunteer requirements - volunteer opportunities - volunteer benefits - volunteer guidelines and responsibilities - volunteer testimonials - volunteer news secondary menu - about us - your visit to sch - for physicians - media center - health library - my health space you are here: home » health library health library aspirin (rectal)
the suppository will melt quickly once  inserted and you should feel little or no discomfort while holding it in.
seek emergency medical attention if you think you have used too much of this medicine.
do not take rectal aspirin by mouth.
choosing your child's physician - why are "well-child" exams important?
tell  your doctor if you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant while you are using  rectal aspirin.
multum's drug information is an informational resource designed to assist licensed healthcare practitioners in caring for their patients and/or to serve consumers viewing this service as a supplement to, and not a substitute for, the expertise, skill, knowledge and judgment of healthcare practitioners.
what is rectal aspirin?
try to use the medicine at a time when you can lie down afterward and hold the medicine in.
it is not known whether rectal aspirin passes into breast milk or if it could harm an unborn baby.
if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and wait until your next regularly scheduled dose.
this medication may be harmful to an  unborn baby, and may also cause problems with pregnancy or childbirth.
what should i discuss with my health care provider before using rectal aspirin?
store the rectal suppositories at cool room temperature away from moisture and heat.
your use of this information means that you agree to theterms of use.
if you take  certain products together you may accidentally take too much aspirin.
it is for use only in your rectum.
seek emergency medical attention if you  think you have used too much of this medicine.
copyright 1996-2010 cerner multum, inc.
avoid using the bathroom during this time.
drug information contained herein may be time sensitive.
- our patient stories - vascular services - vascular services - vascular disease risk factors - treating vascular problems - vascular screenings - vital screening package - online assessment - weight management - weight management services - weight management comprehensive evaluation - weight management surgical options - weight management non-surgical options - team of clinicians - weight management resources and faqs - location and contact - our patient stories - obesity win means fewer medications, more happiness for mom - women's health - women's health services - ob/gyn practice - family birthing center - breast health - incontinence and pelvic pain - treatments - surgical options - menopause - osteoporosis - team of clinicians - resources and faq’s - embracing menopause: preparing for a healthy transition - tips for a great mammogram - wound care center - wound care services - wound care procedures and treatments - prevention and home treatment techniques - wound care center team of clinicians - wound care center resources and faqs - preparing for your visit - wound care
do not use any other over-the-counter medication without first asking your doctor or pharmacist.
tell your doctor if you are taking an antidepressant such as citalopram (celexa), duloxetine (cymbalta), escitalopram (lexapro), fluoxetine (prozac, sarafem, symbyax), fluvoxamine (luvox), paroxetine (paxil), sertraline (zoloft), or venlafaxine (effexor).
less serious side effects may include: - nausea, vomiting, stomach pain; or - rectal irritation.
this information does not replace the advice of a doctor.
follow these directions carefully.
rectal  aspirin should not be used in a child or teenager who has a fever, especially  if the child also has flu symptoms or chicken pox.
call your  doctor if you still have a sore throat after 2 days of using rectal aspirin, if  you still have a fever after 3 days, or if you still have pain after 10 days of  treatment (5 days for a child).
since rectal aspirin is sometimes used as needed, you may not be on a dosing schedule.
this includes vitamins, minerals, herbal products, and drugs prescribed by other doctors.
revision date: 08/12/2009.
call your  doctor for medical advice about side effects.
rectal aspirin may also be used for other purposes not listed in this  medication guide.
tell your doctor if you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant while you are using rectal aspirin.
rectal aspirin is used to reduce pain, inflammation, and fever.
aspirin is contained in many medicines available over the counter.
call your doctor for medical advice about side effects.
try to empty your bowel and bladder just before using the rectal aspirin suppository.
rectal aspirin may also be used for other purposes not listed in this medication guide.
do not use the medication in larger or smaller  amounts, or use it for longer than recommended.
if you have any of these conditions, you may need a dose adjustment or  special tests to safely use aspirin
use this medication exactly as directed on the label, or as it has been  prescribed by your doctor.
aspirin is  also used to treat the symptoms of arthritis and rheumatic fever.
where can i get more information?
aspirin also reduces fever.
do not use this medication if you are allergic to aspirin or  other nsaids (non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs) such as ibuprofen (motrin,  advil), diclofenac (voltaren), diflunisal (dolobid), etodolac (lodine),
get emergency medical help if you have any of thesesigns of an allergic reaction: hives; difficulty breathing; swelling of your face, lips, tongue, or throat.
remember, keep this and all other medicines out of the reach of children, never share your medicines with others, and use this medication only for the indication prescribed every effort has been made to ensure that the information provided by cerner multum, inc. ('multum') is accurate, up-to-date, and complete, but no guarantee is made to that effect.
rectal aspirin should not be used in a child or teenager who has a fever,  especially if the child also has flu symptoms or chicken pox.
try to use the medicine at a time when you can lie down afterward  and hold the medicine in.
the information contained herein is not intended to cover all possible uses, directions, precautions, warnings, drug interactions, allergic reactions, or adverse effects.
aspirin can cause a serious and sometimes fatal condition called reye's syndrome.
you may report side effects to  fda at 1-800-fda-1088.
it works by reducing  substances in the body that cause pain and inflammation.
store the rectal suppositories at cool room temperature away  from moisture and heat.
aspirin (rectal) pronunciation: as pi rin
you may need to stop using the medicine for a short time.
you may need to stop using the medicine for  a short time.
if you have any of these conditions, you may need a dose adjustment or special tests to safely use aspirin this medication may be harmful to an unborn baby, and may also cause problems with pregnancy or childbirth.
do not use extra medicine to make up the missed dose.
read the label of any other medicine you are using to see if it contains aspirin.
get emergency  medical help if you have any of thesesigns of an allergic reaction: hives; difficulty breathing; swelling of your face, lips, tongue, or throat.
- swedish covenant hospital -
tell your doctor at any time if you have new or worsening symptoms.
your pharmacist has information about rectal aspirin written for health professionals that you may read.
call your doctor if you still have a sore throat after 2 days of using rectal aspirin, if you still have a fever after 3 days, or if you still have pain after 10 days of treatment (5 days for a child).
do not use  extra medicine to make up the missed dose.
if you need to have any type of surgery, tell the surgeon ahead of time that you are using rectal aspirin.
this medication comes with patient instructions for using the rectal suppository.