a part of the new york times company.
- symptoms of the cold/flu - diagnosing the cold/flu - treating the cold/flu - answers to your flu shot questions see more about: - viral infection - colds and pregnancy - evaluate cough
doctor for dosing instructions and never give more than 5 doses in 24 hours.
it is very easy to overdose on acetaminophen, which could cause serious harm.
antihistamines this includes any medication used for runny noses  and itching.
many studies  performed on these medications have found that their efficacy is doubtful and  the side effects are not worth the risk.
this problem has only led to drug-resistant bacteria and  they still do not help a child with a viral illness.
diphenhydramine (benadryl) and loratidine (claritin) are the most widely recognized over-the-counter antihistamines.
ibuprofen can sometimes  cause upset stomach so it should be avoided when a child may have stomach pain.
the most important thing to do is to make sure your child is staying hydrated with small sips of gatorade (mixed half and half with water) or pedialyte.
pepto-bismol should never be given to a child because it contains aspirin.
diphenhydramine (benadryl) and loratidine (claritin) are the most  widely recognized over-the-counter antihistamines.
because of the lack  symptom relief and the potential side effects, antihistamines should not be  given to a child under 4 years old and should be used with caution in older  kids.
most parents just want their kids to feel better when they get sick and who can blame them?
source: "parenting corner q&a: otc medications."
however, this is usually not  the case.
american academy of pediatrics jun 2007.
- cold treatments - childhood illnesses - children's cold medications 1.
ibuprofen is considered safe for children over 6 months old but you should check with child's doctor for dosing instructions.
medications for vomiting/diarrheavomiting and diarrhea are two of the symptoms that frighten parents the most in their children.
unfortunately, many antibiotics are often  overprescribed because parents insist that they have one so their child will  get better sooner.
this list will cover the major types of medications for kids and what, if any, benefit they may have for your child.
in some cases though, antihistamines may cause children to  become restless, irritable and have difficulty sleeping.
unfortunately, all those kids' cold medications don't provide the relief they claim to.
unfortunately, many antibiotics are often overprescribed because parents insist that they have one so their child will get better sooner.
the cold hard facts by kristina duda, r.n., about.com guide updated october 08, 2008 about.com health's disease and condition content is reviewed by our medical review board see more about: countless cold and cough medications are out there for kids.
source:"parenting corner q&a: otc medications.
most parents just want their kids to feel  better when they get sick and who can blame them?
children under age 18 should not be given  aspirin unless instructed by a doctor because of a potentially life threatening  illness called reye's syndrome.
unfortunately, vomiting and diarrhea are usually the body's way of eliminating whatever germ is in it.
this problem has only led to drug-resistant bacteria and they still do not help a child with a viral illness.
symptoms - weather and illness - cough medications
if you are concerned about your child's  vomiting or diarrhea, contact his doctor.
unfortunately, vomiting and diarrhea are usually the body's way of  eliminating whatever germ is in it.
antihistaminesthis includes any medication used for runny noses and itching.
they are also prone to causing irritability, restlessness and  nervousness.
many parents are concerned that their child's illness  will only resolve after a round of antibiotics.
- about.com - health - cold & flu cold & flu search free cold & flu newsletter!
you should always check with your child's  doctor before giving your child any type of cough medication because he may  want to see the child first.
however, this is usually not the case.
antibiotics will not cure or shorten the duration of a viral illness,  such as the common cold or flu.
by category - cold treatments - childhood illnesses - children's cold medications - common cold - flu - prevention - check your symptoms - see a healthcare provider - medication and tools - vaccines - pneumonia - bronchitis - other common illnesses - when your child is sick - glossary cold & flu - about.com - health - cold & flu - when your child is sick - children and cold medications - cough and cold medications for children also from about.com: - most popular - latest articles - rss - calorie count - nutrition database - advertise on about.com - our story - news & events - work at about - sitemap - all topics - reprints - help - write for about - user agreement - ethics policy - patent info.
cough suppressants should be avoided because stopping a cough can  lead to more serious illness, and the safety and efficacy of cough suppressants  have been questioned in some studies.
cough medicationscoughing is the body's way of clearing out the lungs and generally should not be suppressed.
most parents just want to make their children feel better and want these symptoms to disappear.
sign up discuss in my forum cough and cold medications for children the cold hard facts by kristina duda, r.n., about.com guide updated october 08, 2008 about.com health's disease and condition content is reviewed by our medical  review board see more about: childhood illnesses children's cold medications countless cold and cough  medications are out there for kids.
sign up - cold / flu - symptoms/diagnosis - treatment - flu shot facts discuss in my forum cough and cold medications for children
so if your child's doctor  tells you that your child has a virus, don't push for an antibiotic; it won't  help anyone.
so if your child's doctor tells you that your child has a virus, don't push for an antibiotic; it won't help anyone.
stopping the diarrhea and vomiting with  medication can possibly make things worse.
if your child has a cough that persists, his doctor should evaluate him so he can treat the underlying cause of the cough.
caring for a sick child - caring for a child with a cold - caring for a child with the flu - using humidifiers common childhood symptoms - evaluating a fever - evaluating a cough - evaluating congestion common childhood illnesses related articles - strep throat - tonsillitis - chickenpox - kids and cough medications - using cough medications on kids - natural ways to treat your child’s cough and cold - your child has a cold - what to do for your child with a cold - what do i do when my kids are sick?
ibuprofen can sometimes cause upset stomach so it should be avoided when a child may have stomach pain.
expectorants may help loosen a child's  cough if it is dry ornon-productive.
medications for vomiting/diarrhea vomiting and diarrhea are two of  the symptoms that frighten parents the most in their children.
cough suppressants should be avoided because stopping a cough can lead to more serious illness, and the safety and efficacy of cough suppressants have been questioned in some studies.
pepto-bismol should never be given to a  child because it contains aspirin.
unfortunately, all those  kids' cold medications don't provide the relief they claim to.
in some cases though, antihistamines may cause children to become restless, irritable and have difficulty sleeping.
this list will cover the major types  of medications for kids and what, if any, benefit they may have for your child.
it  is very easy to overdose on acetaminophen, which could cause serious harm.
pain relievers/fever reducersthis includes acetaminophen (tylenol) and ibuprofen (motrin and advil).
many studies performed on these medications have found that their efficacy is doubtful and the side effects are not worth the risk.
we comply with the honcode standard for trustworthy health information: verify here.
there is some evidence that antihistamines can cause sedation when compared with alternative.
- privacy policy - your ad choices ©2012 about.com.
most parents  just want to make their children feel better and want these symptoms to  disappear.
expectorants may help loosen a child's cough if it is dry ornon-productive.
stopping the diarrhea and vomiting with medication can possibly make things worse.
antibioticsmany parents are concerned that their child's illness will only resolve after a round of antibiotics.
there is some evidence that antihistamines can cause sedation when compared  with alternative.
decongestants decongestants, such as pseudoephedrine (sudafed),  have little effect in children when they have colds or upper respiratory  infections.
if you are concerned about your child's vomiting or diarrhea, contact his doctor.
the most important thing to do is to  make sure your child is staying hydrated with small sips of gatorade (mixed  half and half with water) or pedialyte.
cough medications coughing is the body's way of clearing out the  lungs and generally should not be suppressed.
decongestantsdecongestants, such as pseudoephedrine (sudafed), have little effect in children when they have colds or upper respiratory infections.
antibiotics will not cure or shorten the duration of a viral illness, such as the common cold or flu.
since they have no proven benefit for common viral illnesses, they are generally not worth the potential side effects.
they have been found to be effective for treating allergies and allergic reactions, but studies have revealed they are ineffective in relieving symptoms when a child has a cold.
pain relievers/fever reducers this includes acetaminophen (tylenol)  and ibuprofen (motrin and advil).
caring for a sick child caring for a child with a cold caring for a child with the flu using humidifiers
acetaminophen is generally considered safe in infants and children over 2 months old but you should check with your child's
acetaminophen is generally considered safe in  infants and children over 2 months old but you should check with your child's  doctor for dosing instructions and never give more than 5 doses in 24 hours.
free cold & flu newsletter!
they have been found to be  effective for treating allergies and allergic reactions, but studies have  revealed they are ineffective in relieving symptoms when a child has a cold.
because of the lack symptom relief and the potential side effects, antihistamines should not be given to a child under 4 years old and should be used with caution in older kids.
if your child has a cough that  persists, his doctor should evaluate him so he can treat the underlying cause  of the cough.
since they have no proven benefit for common viral illnesses, they  are generally not worth the potential side effects.
children under age 18 should not be given aspirin unless instructed by a doctor because of a potentially life threatening illness called reye's syndrome.
ibuprofen is considered safe for children over 6 months old but you should  check with child's doctor for dosing instructions.
they are also prone to causing irritability, restlessness and nervousness.
" american academy of pediatrics jun 2007.
- diarrhea and vomiting - father's first year kristina duda, r.n. cold & flu guide - sign up for my newsletter related searches fever reducers stomach pain worth the risk pain relievers advil motrin explore cold & flu must reads most popular - what is the cold/flu?
you should always check with your child's doctor before giving your child any type of cough medication because he may want to see the child first.