web address: www.fda.gov/consumer/default.htm this web site has health information for people of all ages.
there are two kinds of cough medicines: expectorants help thin the mucus and make it easier to cough mucus  up when you have a productive cough.
ask your pharmacist to advise you.
it is usually best to take only single-ingredient allergy or cold  preparations, instead of those containing manyactive ingredients.
drink extra fluids when you are taking cold medicines.
these symptoms could be an early sign ofreye syndrome, a rare but serious illness.
do not give  aspirin to anyone younger than 20 unless your doctor tells you to do so.
this is to make sure a young baby's fever is not a sign of a serious illness.
antihistamines are also found in many cold medicines, often together with a decongestant.
examples include  maalox, mylanta, and riopan.
learn what ingredients are  in each type so that you can avoid any adverse effects.
- kidney, liver, or heart disease.
health tools health tools help you make wise health decisions or take action to improve your health.
there are two types of coughs: productive and nonproductive.
- read and follow all the instructions on the medicine bottle and box carefully before giving your child ibuprofen.
heart attack and stroke: aspirin in low but regular doses may help prevent heart attacks and strokes in certain people.
- use of antihistamines to treat the stuffiness of a cold will often thicken the mucus, making it harder to get rid of.
if you have a problem with the function of your kidneys or liver, you  should be careful with using antacids.
for more information on diarrhea symptoms and treatment, see the topics diarrhea, age 12 and older and diarrhea, age 11 and younger.
calcium carbonate antacids (such as tums and alka-mints) are sometimes  used as calcium supplements.
magnesium compounds (such as phillips' milk of magnesia) may cause  diarrhea.
use as often as needed.
decongestants decongestants make breathing easier by shrinking swollen mucous membranes  in the nose, allowing air to pass through.
stimulant  laxatives change the tone and feeling in the large intestine, and you can  become dependent on using laxatives all the time to have a bowel movement.
avoid these antacids if you have high blood pressure or are on a salt-restricted diet.
if you  have kidney problems, check with your doctor before using aluminum-based  antacids.
antispasmodic antidiarrheal products slow the spasms of the intestine.
they help soothe the throat and also moisten and thin mucus
they belong to a class of drugs callednonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (nsaids).
decision points focus on key medical care decisions  that are important to many health problems.
antihistamines can cause problems for some people with health problems  such as asthma, glaucoma, epilepsy, or an enlarged prostate.
spanish materials are also available.
avoid cold remedies that combine medicines to treat many symptoms.
this can be given to children 1 year and older.
unintentional drug poisoning in the united states.
- consult your doctor or pharmacist before taking an antacid if you take other medicines.
cough preparations may also interact with sedatives, certain antidepressants, and other medicines.
but do not use antacids that have sodium bicarbonate (such as alka-seltzer).
- do not take laxatives regularly.
credits by healthwise staff primary medical reviewer e. gregory thompson, md - internal medicine
if you use these medicines, always follow the directions about how much to  use based on age and in some cases weight.
do not use antacids for more than 2 weeks unless you have talked with your  doctor about taking them on a long-term basis.
regular use of bulking agents is safe and helps make them more  effective.
there are two types: older, first-generation antihistamines (such as chlorpheniramine and  diphenhydramine).
stimulant laxatives (such as correctol, ex-lax, and senokot) make  stool move faster through the intestines by irritating the lining of the  intestines.
- long-term use is not recommended.
aspirin  comes as adult-strength (325 mg) or low-dose (81 mg).
decongestant precautions - check the label before you use these medicines.
antihistamines antihistamines dry up nasal secretions and are commonly used to treat  allergy symptoms and itching.
continued use will cause a "rebound effect " in which your mucous membranes swell up more than before you used the spray.
you can make a simple and soothing cough syrup at home by mixing 1 part lemon juice with 2 parts honey.
decongestants can be taken orally or used as nose drops or sprays.
if you do give these medicines to a child, always  follow the directions about how much to give based on the child’s age and  weight.
cough preparation precautions - cough preparations can cause problems for people who have certain health problems, such as asthma, heart disease, high blood pressure, or an enlarged prostate (bph).
many of these types of antacids contain simethicone to help break down gas bubbles in your stomach.
when you buy pain relievers, keep in mind that generic products are chemically equivalent to more expensive brand-name products, and they usually work equally well.
some cough preparations contain a large percentage of alcohol, and others contain codeine.
each has slightly different cautions for use.
aspirin increases the risk of reye syndrome in children.
- read and follow all label directions.
products such as chlorpheniramine (chlor-trimeton) and diphenhydramine (benadryl) are single-ingredient antihistamine products.
read and carefully follow the instructions included with the package.
they also help relieve runny nose and postnasal drip, which can cause a sore throat.
be sure to  read the package instructions carefully, or ask apharmacist before giving any  product to an infant or young child.
other pain relievers ibuprofen (the active ingredient in products such as advil and motrin) andnaproxen (in products such as aleve) are other nsaids.
take other medicines such as ibuprofen or naproxen for the first 2 or 3 days after an injury.
also like aspirin, they can cause nausea, stomach irritation, and heartburn.
drink plenty of water when you use this type of laxative.
- high doses may result in aspirin poisoning (salicylism).
if you need help having regular bowel movements, use a bulking agent.
antihistamine precautions - don't give antihistamines to your child unless you've checked with the doctor first.
one screening could save your life.
although it seems familiar and safe, aspirin is a very powerful drug.
- talk to your doctor before using nsaids if you take: - blood thinners, such as warfarin, heparin, or aspirin.
if your kidneys are not working correctly, it is possible that too much of the drug will build up in your body.
long-term use is not recommended.
these drugs can be very helpful when used properly but can cause serious problems if used incorrectly.
sprays and drops are  less likely to interact with other drugs than oral decongestants are.
if your runny nose is caused by allergies, an antihistamine may help.
- when you take an antihistamine that makes you drowsy, the drowsiness usually decreases with continued use.
and if you take more than the normal or recommended amount, overdose may occur.
- calcium carbonate antacids (such as tums and alka-mints) are sometimes used as calcium supplements.
in general, whether you take medicines for your cold or not, you'll get better in about a week.
- medicine to decrease swelling (water pills).
they change the tone and feeling in the large intestine.
but nonprescription medicines help relieve some cold symptoms, such as nasal congestion and cough.
if you take a blood thinner (anticoagulant), such as warfarin, or if you have gout, talk to your doctor before you take aspirin.
migraines: regular, low-dose aspirin use may reduce the frequency of migraine headaches.
phone: 1-888-info-fda (1-888-463-6332)
if you are pregnant, check with your doctor or pharmacist before using a decongestant.
- avoid alcohol when taking antihistamines.
and you can become dependent on using them all the time to  have a bowel movement.
contain baking soda.
new hampshire avenue silver spring, md 20993
allergy symptoms, especially runny nose, often respond to antihistamines.
- drink extra fluids when you are taking cold medicines.
- be careful with cold medicines.
a productive cough produces phlegm or mucus (sputum).
loperamide (theactive ingredient in products such as imodium a-d and pepto diarrhea control) is an example of this type of preparation.
your use of this information means that you agree to theterms of use.
antacids may interfere with the absorption and action of some  prescription medicines.
avoid alcohol if you are taking medicine with dextromethorphan in it.
by keyword search by category - conditions / diseases - medications - medical tests by topic not sure where to look?
it's generally best if you don't try to stop (suppress) a productive cough.
aspirin: should i take daily aspirin to prevent a heart attack or stroke?
antibiotics will not help.
osmotic laxatives, such as fleet phospho-soda, milk of magnesia, or miralax, and nonabsorbable sugars (such as lactulose or sorbitol), hold fluids in the intestine.
decongestants decongestants make breathing easier by shrinking swollen mucous membranes in the nose, allowing air to pass through.
the following tips will help you use common nonprescription drugs wisely and safely.
pain relievers there are dozens of pain-relief products.
decongestants may also interact with some drugs, such as  certain antidepressants and high blood pressure medicines.
they may not be safe for young children.
avoid these antacids if you have high blood pressure or  are on a salt-restricted diet.
cough preparations coughing is your body's way of getting foreign substances and mucus out of yourrespiratory tract.
during pregnancy it is okay to use antacids that have calcium carbonate (such as tums).
they may not be safe for young children, so check the label first.
don't suppress a productive cough too much (unless  it is keeping you from getting enough rest).
this may help keep stomach juices from coming in contact with your esophagus.
- aspirin: should i take daily aspirin to prevent a heart attack or stroke?
if you have a problem with the function of your kidneys or liver, you should be careful with using antacids.
read the package carefully, or ask your  pharmacist or doctor to help you choose.
these symptoms could be an early sign ofreye syndrome, a rare but serious  illness.
this increases your risk of stomach bleeding.
cough suppressants can stifle breathing.
also consult your doctor if you have ulcers or kidney problems.
sprays and drops provide rapid but temporary relief.
it  also relieves minor itching and reduces swelling and inflammation.
look for suppressant medicines containing dextromethorphan.
some products contain both thickening and antispasmodic ingredients.
you may want to try an antihistamine that doesn't cause drowsiness.
a nonproductive cough does not produce  sputum.
these may make you sleepy or make it harder for you to  concentrate.
cough preparations may also interact with sedatives, certain  antidepressants, and other medicines.
oral  decongestants (pills) provide longer relief, but they cause more side effects.
aspirin precautions - keep all aspirin out of children's reach.
talk to your doctor or pharmacist if the medicine still makes you drowsy or if the medicine isn't helping your symptoms after 1 week.
these drugs can interact with other medicines and can sometimes cause serious health problems.
aspirin aspirin is widely used for relieving pain and reducing fever in adults.
see why this one test is so important and how to schedule yours.#sanfordcancer http://t.co/f9cozsxr 09:25
it's generally best if you don't try  to stop (suppress) a productive cough.
stool softeners can be most effective if you  drink plenty of water throughout the day.
how this information was developed to help you make better health decisions.
read and carefully follow the  instructions included with the package.
for  cold symptoms, home treatment and perhaps a decongestant will probably be more  helpful.
available online: http://www.cdc.gov/homeandrecreationalsafety/pdf/poison-issue-brief.pdf.
although it seems  familiar and safe, aspirin is a very powerful drug.
topics include the following: medicines, food and nutrition, medical devices, cosmetics, and animal health.
to avoid constipation, stop taking  antidiarrheal medicines as soon as stools thicken.
- read and carefully follow all the instructions on the medicine bottle and box before giving your child acetaminophen.
if you are pregnant, always check with your pharmacist or doctor before using any nonprescription medicine, to make sure it is safe to use during pregnancy.
read  the package carefully or ask your pharmacist or doctor to help you choose one  that will not cause problems.
healthwise, healthwise for every health decision, and the healthwise logo are trademarks of healthwise, incorporated.
employee login - privacy of health information - privacy statement - terms & conditions - fargo region - sioux falls region - sanfordlearn
there are several types of nonprescription acid reducers on the market.
- antacids with alginic acid (such as gaviscon) contain a foaming agent that floats on top of the stomach contents.
alka-seltzer contains aspirin, which is linked to reye syndrome, a rare but serious illness in children.
but nonprescription medicines help relieve some cold  symptoms, such as nasal congestion and cough.
decision points focus on key medical care decisions that are important to many health problems.
cold and allergy remedies
because of the danger of side effects and the interactions aspirin may have with other medicines, do not try these uses of aspirin without a doctor's supervision.
some antacids have a lot of salt (sodium).
bulking agents, stool softeners, and laxatives there are four types of products used to prevent or treat constipation:  bulking agents, stool softeners, osmotic laxatives, and stimulant laxatives.
use thesetips on how to avoid common medicine problems.
many of the newer antihistamines  cause less drowsiness than older antihistamines or cause no drowsiness at all.
products such as chlorpheniramine (chlor-trimeton) and diphenhydramine  (benadryl) are single-ingredient antihistamine products.
a nonproductive cough does not produce sputum.
there are many other ways to treat constipation, such as drinking more  water.
these have fewer side effects.
aspirin comes as adult-strength (325 mg) or low-dose (81 mg).
sprays and drops are less likely to interact with other drugs than oral decongestants are.
in some cases, you may find that you don't need to take them at all.
some may cause  calcium loss and should not be taken by women who are past menopause.
antacid and acid reducer precautions try to eliminate the cause of frequent heartburn instead of taking  antacids regularly.
decongestants may also interact with some drugs, such as certain antidepressants and high blood pressure medicines.
if your kidneys  are not working correctly, it is possible that too much of the drug will build  up in your body.
they can cause fluid buildup.
read and follow all label directions.
when you buy pain relievers, keep in mind that generic products are  chemically equivalent to more expensive brand-name products, and they usually  work equally well.
if aspirin upsets your stomach, try a coated brand, such as ecotrin.
- antihistamines can cause problems for some people with health problems such as asthma, glaucoma, epilepsy, or an enlarged prostate.
thickening mixtures (such as psyllium) absorb water.
for more information, seeuse of acetaminophen in young children.
they may not be safe for  young children.
rest and liquids are the best treatment for a cold.
- a - b - c - d - e - f - g - h - i - j - k - l - m - n - o - p - q - r - s - t - u - v - w - x - y - z list all categories kids health topics - for kids - for teens - for parents learning resources - find classes / events - watch educational videos - locations & doctors - search for a doctor by last name specialty locations - find a sanford health location select state california iowa minnesota nebraska north dakota oklahoma south dakota select community search all locations health information - video library - family health - for kids - family health -
and you can become dependent on using them all the time to have a bowel movement.
look for expectorants containing guaifenesin.
for more information, see the topicheartburn.
- medicine for arthritis or diabetes.
antihistamine precautions don't give antihistamines to your child unless you've checked with the  doctor first.
bulking agents, laxatives, and stool softeners.
- aluminum-magnesium antacids are less likely to cause constipation or diarrhea than are aluminum-only or magnesium-only antacids.
they  can cause fluid buildup.
aluminum-based antacids (such as amphojel) are less potent and work more  slowly than other products do.
carefully read the label of any nonprescription drug you use, especially if  you also take prescription medicines for other health problems.
bulking agents, such as bran or psyllium (found in metamucil, for  example) ease constipation by increasing the volume of stool and making it  easier to pass.
do not take laxatives regularly.
stop taking aspirin and call a doctor if any of these symptoms occur: ringing in the ears
- drink extra fluids when taking antihistamines.
regular use of laxatives may change your body's ability to absorb vitamin d  andcalcium.
products such as coricidin, dristan, and triaminic contain both a decongestant and an antihistamine.
- aspirin can irritate the stomach lining, causing bleeding or ulcers.
they also draw fluids into the intestine from other tissue  and blood vessels.
for more information, see the topicsconstipation, age 12 and older and  constipation, age 11 and younger.
all drugs are broken down and removed from the body by the combined action of the liver and kidneys.
- a habit of drinking more than 3 alcoholic drinks a day.
there are two types of antidiarrheal drugs, those that thicken the stool  and those that slow intestinal spasms.
carefully read the label of any nonprescription drug you use, especially if you also take prescription medicines for other health problems.
©2012 sanford health.
but don't assume that all nonprescription drugs are safe for you.
acetaminophen (the active ingredient in products such as tylenol) reduces fever and relieves pain.
osmotic laxatives, such as fleet phospho-soda, milk of magnesia, or  miralax, and nonabsorbable sugars (such as lactulose or sorbitol), hold fluids  in the intestine.
do not take nsaids if you have had an allergic reaction to this type of  medicine in the past.
- stomach pain, upset stomach, or heartburn that lasts or comes back.
if you have kidney problems, check with your doctor before using aluminum-based antacids.
for more information, see the topicsconstipation, age 12 and older and constipation, age 11 and younger.
be sure to take the recommended dose.
stool softeners (such as colace and docusate calcium) soften the  stool, making it easier to pass.
saline nose drops are not decongestants but may help keep nasal tissues moist so the tissues can filter air.
read the package carefully, or ask your pharmacist or doctor to help you choose.
antihistamines are also found in many cold medicines, often together with a  decongestant.
stimulant laxatives change the tone and feeling in the large intestine, and you can become dependent on using laxatives all the time to have a bowel movement.
do not use these medicines if you have bloody diarrhea, a high fever, or othersigns of serious illness.
in addition to relieving pain and inflammation, aspirin is effective against many other ailments.
they may also cause constipation.
read the package  carefully or ask your pharmacist or doctor to help you choose the best  decongestant for you.
- high blood pressure.
continued use will cause a "rebound effect " in which your mucous membranes swell up more than before you used the  spray.
there are several types of nonprescription acid  reducers on the market.
there are several kinds of antacids.
if you are on a low-salt diet, talk with your doctor or pharmacist before choosing an antacid.
stool softeners can be most effective if you drink plenty of water throughout the day.
sanford health - for medical professionals - careers - contact us search item# or keyword search - medical services - centers of excellence view
tomorrow resources from twitter - contact media relations - search the video library - view the newsroom
they can also affect your coordination, even when they do not make you drowsy.
regular use of bulking agents is safe and helps make them more effective.
- do not use antacids for more than 2 weeks unless you have talked with your doctor about taking them on a long-term basis.
water and other liquids, such as fruit juices, are good cough syrups.
for cold symptoms, home treatment and perhaps a decongestant will probably be more helpful.
they can also affect your coordination, even when they do not make  you drowsy.
antispasmodic antidiarrheal products slow the spasms of the  intestine.
nsaid precautions (also see aspirin precautions) - do not use an nsaid for longer than 10 days without talking to your doctor.
these products may cause constipation.
if you are pregnant, always check with  your pharmacist or doctor before using any nonprescription medicine, to make  sure it is safe to use during pregnancy.
most contain either aspirin,  ibuprofen, or acetaminophen.
if your child has taken this kind of medicine and he or she has changes in behavior with nausea and vomiting, call your doctor.
sometimes, though, coughs are severe enough to impair breathing or prevent rest.
some cough  preparations contain a large percentage of alcohol, and others contain codeine.
phm., pharmd - pharmacy last revised july 6, 2011 - top of page - next section: health tools - previous section: overview - top of page - next section: antacids and acid reducers - previous section: health tools - top of page - next section: bulking agents, stool softeners, and
they  help soothe the throat and also moisten and thin mucus
when you take an antihistamine that makes you drowsy, the drowsiness  usually decreases with continued use.
if you are pregnant, check with your doctor or pharmacist before using a  cough preparation.
for more information, see the topicmigraine headaches.
newer, second-generation antihistamines (such as cetirizine and  loratadine).
read the package carefully or ask your pharmacist or doctor to help you choose one that will not cause problems.
for more information, seeacetaminophen use during pregnancy.
healthwise, incorporated disclaims any warranty or liability for your use of this information.
there are two types: - older, first-generation antihistamines (such as chlorpheniramine and diphenhydramine).
these may make you sleepy or make it harder for you to concentrate.
do not give aspirin to anyone younger than 20 unless your doctor tells you to do so.
take other medicines such as ibuprofen or naproxen for the  first 2 or 3 days after an injury.
some  products contain both thickening and antispasmodic ingredients.
talk to your doctor or pharmacist if the  medicine still makes you drowsy or if the medicine isn't helping your symptoms  after 1 week.
antacids may interfere with the absorption and action of some prescription medicines.
stool softeners (such as colace and docusate calcium) soften the stool, making it easier to pass.
aspirin can irritate the stomach lining, causing bleeding or ulcers.
also consult your doctor if you have ulcers or kidney  problems.
this extra fluid in the intestines makes the stool softer and easier to pass.
read the label so you know what the ingredients are.
cold and allergy remedies.
bulking agents, such as bran or psyllium (found in metamucil, for example) ease constipation by increasing the volume of stool and making it easier to pass.
this can be given to  children 1 year and older.
- avoid cold remedies that combine medicines to treat many symptoms.
use of antihistamines to treat the stuffiness of a cold will often thicken  the mucus, making it harder to get rid of.
ask your  pharmacist for help in finding a nonprescription drug best suited to your  needs.
acid reducers decrease the amount of acid produced by the stomach.
there are many other ways to treat constipation, such as drinking more water.
- newer, second-generation antihistamines (such as cetirizine and loratadine).
these three drugs, as well as naproxen, relieve pain and reduce fever.
these three drugs, as well as naproxen, relieve  pain and reduce fever.
high doses may result in aspirin poisoning (salicylism).
products such as coricidin, dristan, and triaminic contain both a  decongestant and an antihistamine.
antidiarrheal precautions - use antidiarrheals if you have diarrhea for longer than 6 hours.
consult your doctor or pharmacist before taking an antacid if you take  other medicines.
if you take a blood thinner (anticoagulant), such as warfarin, or if you  have gout, talk to your doctor before you take aspirin.
for teens - family health - for parents - find classes & events topic contents - overview - health tools - antacids and acid reducers - bulking agents, stool softeners, and laxatives - antidiarrheals - cold and allergy remedies - pain relievers - other places to get help - related information - references - credits nonprescription medicines and products overview a nonprescription medicine—sometimes called an over-the-counter, or otc, medicine—is any drug that you can buy without a doctor's prescription.
- medicine to treat mental health problems.
all drugs are broken down and removed  from the body by the combined action of the liver and kidneys.
- bleeding or easy bruising.
some common nonprescription medicines include: - antacids and acid reducers.
if your child has taken this kind of medicine and  he or she has changes in behavior with nausea and vomiting, call your doctor.
antihistamines may also interact with certain antidepressants, sedatives, and tranquilizers.
specialist medical reviewer margaret hetherington, b.sc.
regular use of stimulant laxatives is not recommended.
not everyone needs the same amount of medicine.
these drugs can be very helpful when used properly but can cause serious  problems if used incorrectly.
throw aspirin away if it starts to smell like vinegar.
you may want to try an antihistamine that doesn't cause  drowsiness.
most contain either aspirin, ibuprofen, or acetaminophen.
for more information, seeuse of ibuprofen in young children.
don't suppress a productive cough too much (unless it is keeping you from getting enough rest).
it does not have the anti-inflammatory effect of nsaids, such as aspirin and ibuprofen, but it also does not cause stomach upset and other side effects.
laxatives - previous section: antacids and acid reducers - top of page - next section: antidiarrheals - previous section: bulking agents, stool softeners, and laxatives - top of page - next section: cold and allergy remedies - previous section: antidiarrheals - top of page - next section: pain relievers - previous section: cold and allergy remedies - top of page - next section: other places to get help - previous section: pain relievers - top of page - next section: related information - previous section: other places to get help - top of page - next section: references - previous section: related information - top of page - next section: credits - previous section: references - top of page last revised: july 6, 2011 author: healthwise staff medical review: e. gregory thompson, md - internal medicine & margaret hetherington, b.sc.
but  do not use antacids that have sodium bicarbonate (such as alka-seltzer).
to help prevent taking a high dose, follow what the label says or what your doctor told you.
- regular use of laxatives may change your body's ability to absorb vitamin d andcalcium.
this can lead to weakened bones.
if you are pregnant, check with your doctor or pharmacist before using a cough preparation.
- talk to your doctor before you give fever medicine to a baby who is 3 months of age or younger.
if you do give these medicines to a child, always follow the directions about how much to give based on the child’s age and weight.
if you are pregnant, check with your doctor or pharmacist before using an antihistamine.
many of the newer antihistamines cause less drowsiness than older antihistamines or cause no drowsiness at all.
like aspirin, these drugs relieve pain and reduce fever and inflammation.
stimulant laxatives (such as correctol, ex-lax, and senokot) make stool move faster through the intestines by irritating the lining of the intestines.
many of these types of antacids contain  simethicone to help break down gas bubbles in your stomach.
oral decongestants (pills) provide longer relief, but they cause more side effects.
in some cases, you may find that you  don't need to take them at all.
if you are pregnant, check with your doctor or pharmacist before using a  decongestant.
precautions - take any laxative or bulking agent with plenty of water or other liquids.
acetaminophen precautions - the product's package label will tell you how many milligrams (mg) of medicine are in each pill or liquid dose, how much you should take; and how often you should take it.
so it can be coughed up more easily.
aluminum-magnesium antacids are less likely to cause constipation or  diarrhea than are aluminum-only or magnesium-only antacids.
do not  use these medicines if you have bloody diarrhea, a high fever, or othersigns of  serious illness.
be careful with cold medicines.
sometimes, though, coughs are severe enough to impair  breathing or prevent rest.
for more information on diarrhea symptoms and treatment, see the topics  diarrhea, age 12 and older and diarrhea, age 11 and younger.
a productive  cough produces phlegm or mucus (sputum).
fit major medical centers - sanford usd medical center sioux falls - sanford medical center fargo general information - fargo, nd - 800-437-4010 - sioux falls, sd - 605-333-1000 nurse by phone - ask-a-nurse - fargo, nd - 800-821-5167 - 701-234-5000 - healthformation - sioux falls, sd - 800-445-5788 - 605-333-4444 physician finder - fargo, nd - 877-234-4240 - 701-234-5570 - sioux falls, sd - 877-945-5678 latest sanford health news view all rss newsfeed - sanford research takes its work to international level - sanford health adds 13 radiologists - sanford health recognized for integration - sanford partners with ndsu on research - 12th annual cares for kids radiothon starts
if you need help having regular bowel movements, use a  bulking agent.
there are two kinds of cough medicines: - expectorants help thin the mucus and make it easier to cough mucus up when you have a productive cough.
- because aspirin can increase the risk of bleeding, it is not recommended for new injuries.
this helps bulk up the stool and make it more firm.
- quick links - important numbers - newsroom general information - current wait times - about sanford health - initiatives and priorities - contact us external sites - edith sanford foundation - sanford health research - sanford health plan - sanford health foundation - sanford & webmd
if you are or could be pregnant, do not take any kind of pain reliever unless your doctor has told you to.
this helps bulk  up the stool and make it more firm.
to learn more visit healthwise.org © 1995-2011 healthwise, incorporated.
they belong to a class of drugs callednonsteroidal  anti-inflammatory drugs (nsaids).
if you are pregnant, check with your doctor or pharmacist before using an  antihistamine.
do not exceed the dosage limits, and follow the instructions on the package if you have health problems that may make it unsafe for you to take the usual dosage of a product.
this may help keep stomach juices from  coming in contact with your esophagus.
examples include h2 blockers (such as famotidine and  ranitidine) and proton pump inhibitors (such as lansoprazole and omeprazole).
ask your doctor if your child younger than 12 should take these medicines.
for more information, see: - coronary artery disease.
your pharmacist can suggest a medicine for your cold and allergy symptoms.
antidiarrheal precautions use antidiarrheals if you have diarrhea for longer than 6 hours.
am mar 13 find a location find a doctor my sanford chart newsletter signup sign up follow us!
- cold and allergy remedies.
- do not take nsaids if you have had an allergic reaction to this type of medicine in the past.
examples include h2 blockers (such as famotidine and ranitidine) and proton pump inhibitors (such as lansoprazole and omeprazole).
these drugs can interact with other medicines and can sometimes cause serious  health problems.
examples include maalox, mylanta, and riopan.
- aluminum-based antacids (such as amphojel) are less potent and work more slowly than other products do.
drink extra fluids when taking antihistamines.
precautions take any laxative or bulking agent with plenty of water or other liquids.
some medicines should only be used by adults or older children.
aspirin precautions keep all aspirin out of children's reach.
antihistamines antihistamines dry up nasal secretions and are commonly used to treat allergy symptoms and itching.
if your child or teen gets chickenpox or flu, do not treat the symptoms with over-the-counter medicines that contain bismuth subsalicylate (such as kaopectate and pepto-bismol).
be sure to read the package instructions carefully, or ask apharmacist before giving any product to an infant or young child.
- magnesium compounds (such as phillips' milk of magnesia) may cause diarrhea.
they also draw fluids into the intestine from other tissue and blood vessels.
loperamide (theactive ingredient in products such as imodium a-d and  pepto diarrhea control) is an example of this type of preparation.
antacids and acid reducers antacids are taken to relieve heartburn or indigestion caused by excess  stomach acid.
- bulking agents, laxatives, and stool softeners.
to avoid constipation, stop taking antidiarrheal medicines as soon as stools thicken.
nonprescription medicines and products overview a nonprescription medicine—sometimes called an over-the-counter, or  otc, medicine—is any drug that you can buy without a doctor's  prescription.
they may not be safe for young children,  so check the label first.
to help prevent  taking a high dose, follow what the label says or what your doctor told you.
if you are pregnant, antacids are safe to use for heartburn symptoms.
avoid alcohol when taking antihistamines.
- decongestants can cause problems for people who have certain health problems, such as heart disease, high blood pressure, glaucoma, diabetes, or an overactive thyroid.
don't use medicated nasal sprays or drops more than 3 times a day or for  more than 3 days in a row.
antacids with alginic acid (such as gaviscon) contain a foaming agent that  floats on top of the stomach contents.
phm., pharmd - pharmacy
look for expectorants containing  guaifenesin.
- ask your doctor if your child younger than 12 should take these medicines.
the following tips will help you use common  nonprescription drugs wisely and safely.
some common nonprescription medicines include: antacids and acid reducers.
this extra fluid in the intestines makes the stool softer  and easier to pass.
- aspirin increases the risk of reye syndrome in children.
if you are on a low-salt diet, talk with your doctor or pharmacist before  choosing an antacid.
aspirin, ibuprofen, and naproxen also relieve  inflammation.
aspirin, ibuprofen, and naproxen also relieve inflammation.
if  aspirin upsets your stomach, try a coated brand, such as ecotrin.
suppressants control or suppress the cough reflex and work best for  a dry, hacking cough that keeps you awake.
decongestants can cause problems for people who have certain health  problems, such as heart disease, high blood pressure, glaucoma, diabetes, or an  overactive thyroid.
- suppressants control or suppress the cough reflex and work best for a dry, hacking cough that keeps you awake.
during pregnancy it is okay to use antacids that have  calcium carbonate (such as tums).
aspirin: should i take  daily aspirin to prevent a heart attack or stroke?
bulking agents, stool softeners, and laxatives there are four types of products used to prevent or treat constipation: bulking agents, stool softeners, osmotic laxatives, and stimulant laxatives.
read the package carefully or ask your pharmacist or doctor to help you choose the best decongestant for you.
- cough suppressants can stifle breathing.
not everyone needs the same amount  of medicine.
it is usually best to take only single-ingredient allergy or cold preparations, instead of those containing manyactive ingredients.
cough preparation precautions cough preparations can cause problems for people who have certain health  problems, such as asthma, heart disease, high blood pressure, or an enlarged  prostate (bph).
because aspirin can increase the risk of bleeding, it is not recommended  for new injuries.
- sodium bicarbonate antacids (such as alka-seltzer and bromo seltzer)
ask your pharmacist for help in finding a nonprescription drug best suited to your needs.
in general, whether you take medicines for your cold or not, you'll get  better in about a week.
talk with  your doctor orpharmacist to find out what may work best for you.
there are many choices.
they help relieve heartburn.
antacid and acid reducer precautions - try to eliminate the cause of frequent heartburn instead of taking antacids regularly.
- read the label so you know what the ingredients are.
- talk to your doctor before taking nsaids if you have: - ulcers or a history of bleeding in your stomach or intestines.
this information does not replace the advice of a doctor.
health tools health tools help you make wise health decisions or take action to improve  your health.
it also relieves minor itching and reduces swelling and inflammation.
antihistamines may  also interact with certain antidepressants, sedatives, and tranquilizers.
decongestant precautions check the label before you use these medicines.
- avoid alcohol if you are taking medicine with dextromethorphan in it.
if you use these medicines, always follow the directions about how much to use based on age and in some cases weight.
sodium bicarbonate antacids (such as alka-seltzer and bromo seltzer)
use them with caution if you are  older than 60 or if you have chronic respiratory problems.
learn what ingredients are in each type so that you can avoid any adverse effects.
there are two types of antidiarrheal drugs, those that thicken the stool and those that slow intestinal spasms.
related information - allergic rhinitis - choosing a vitamin and mineral supplement - constipation, age 11 and younger - constipation, age 12 and older - coughs, age 11 and younger - coughs, age 12 and older - dealing with medicine side effects and interactions - dehydration - diarrhea, age 11 and younger - diarrhea, age 12 and older - dietary supplements (herbal medicines and natural products) - headaches - heartburn - keeping track of medicines - laxatives - medicines during pregnancy - poisoning - prevent medical errors - quick tips: giving over-the-counter medicines to children - quick tips: taking medicines wisely - respiratory problems, age 11 and younger - respiratory problems, age 12 and older - reye syndrome - your home health center references other works consulted - centers for disease control and prevention (2010).
look for suppressant medicines  containing dextromethorphan.
saline  nose drops are not decongestants but may help keep nasal tissues moist so the  tissues can filter air.
- don't use medicated nasal sprays or drops more than 3 times a day or for more than 3 days in a row.
- throw aspirin away if it starts to smell like vinegar.
stop taking aspirin and call a doctor if any of these symptoms occur: - ringing in the ears - visual disturbances - nausea - dizziness - rapid, deep breathing - if you are pregnant, check with your doctor or pharmacist before taking a pain reliever.
some may cause calcium loss and should not be taken by women who are past menopause.
they  help relieve heartburn.
if your child or teen gets chickenpox or flu, do not treat the symptoms  with over-the-counter medicines that contain bismuth subsalicylate (such as  kaopectate and pepto-bismol).
all specialties - cancer - children's - heart - orthopedics & sports - women's - search services by keyword search view all medical services - find services alphabetically view all medical services - a - b - c - d - e - f - g - h - i - j - k - l - m - n - o - p - q - r - s - t - u - v - w - x - y - z - patients & visitors - - email a patient - newborns - gift shop - volunteer opportunities - caringbridge - contact us - patient services - pay your bill - pre-register - patient information - view current wait times - my sanford chart - health information - search the healthwise information database
other places to get help organization food and drug administration (fda): consumer health information 10903
antacids and acid reducers antacids are taken to relieve heartburn or indigestion caused by excess stomach acid.
talk with your doctor orpharmacist to find out what may work best for you.
you can make a simple and soothing cough syrup at home by mixing 1 part  lemon juice with 2 parts honey.
cough preparations coughing is your body's way of getting foreign substances and mucus out of  yourrespiratory tract.
use them with caution if you are older than 60 or if you have chronic respiratory problems.
they change the tone and feeling in the  large intestine.
so it can be coughed up  more easily.