opioid drugs include morphine, codeine, meperidine (demerol), and oxycodone (oxycontin)].
in general, there are four phases to a migraine (although they may not all occur in every patient): the prodrome phase, auras, the attack, and the postdrome phase.
the main types of medications for treating a migraine attack are: pain relievers (usually nonprescription nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory  drugs
researchers are also studying the relationship between patent foramen ovale (pfo) and migraine.
many primary headaches, including migraine, are misdiagnosed as sinus headaches, causing patients to be treated inappropriately with antibiotics.
noticeable, but does not interfere with work/activities 3 =
it can cause temporary paralysis on one side of the body, vision problems, and vertigo.
migraines are often tied to a woman's menstrual cycle, typically in the first days preceding or beginning menstruation.
manufacturers of herbal remedies and dietary supplements do not need food and drug administration approval to sell their products.
a national headache foundation-sponsored survey of migraine sufferers reported that: until recently, the general theory on the migraine process rested solely on the idea that abnormalities of blood vessel (vascular) systems in the head were responsible for migraines.
the patient can usually stop abruptly or gradually.
risk for stroke and heart disease.
differentiating between migraines and tension headaches.
studies using the ace inhibitor lisinopril (prinivil, zestril) have reported significant reduction in migraine attacks.
pringsheim t, davenport wj, dodick d. acute treatment and prevention of menstrually related migraine headache: evidence-based review.
triptans are recommended as first-line drugs for adult patients with  moderate-to-severe migraines when nsaids are not effective.
serotonin syndrome is most likely to occur when starting or increasing  the dose of a triptan or antidepressant drug.
magnesium helps relax blood vessels.
there are no blood tests or imaging techniques that can be used to diagnose migraine headaches.
still, many patients are treated with unapproved drugs, including  opoids and barbiturates that can be potentially addictive or dangerous.
about half of women with migraines report headaches associated with their menstrual cycle.
migraine headaches typically affect people between the ages of 15 - 55.
recent advances in the diagnosis and management of migraine.
people taking antidepressants that increase serotonin levels.
sometimes retinal migraines develop without headache.
triptans have the following benefits: sumatriptan.
the following tests may be used: a ct (computed tomography) scan may be ordered to rule out brain disorders  or headaches caused by chronic sinusitis.
researchers are investigating whether surgical repair of the pfo may help control migraines in patients with this heart condition.
some patients report relief as soon as 15 minutes after  administration.
in some cases, migraines themselves evolve into chronic, daily headaches called transformed migraines.
compared to migraines that occur at other times of the month, menstrual migraines tend to be more severe, last longer, and not have auras.
relaxation therapy and stress reduction techniques may also help.
side effects from acute treatment drugs or contraindications to taking them
stay physically active.
behavioral techniques that reduce stress and empower the patient may help some people with migraines.
complications of heart and circulation.
this is a serious and rare migraine.
numerous chemicals, structures, nerve pathways, and other players involved in the process are under investigation.
studies indicate that many children with migraine eventually stop having attacks when they reach adulthood or transition to less severe tension-type headaches.
a once-a-day formulation of divalproex (depakote er) was approved in 2000.
propranolol (inderal) and timolol (blocadren) have been approved specifically for prevention of migraine.
it is important to choose a doctor who is sensitive to the needs of headache sufferers and aware of the latest advances in treatment.
commonly used for treating high blood pressure, angiotensin converting enzyme (ace) inhibitors block the production of the protein angiotensin, which constricts blood vessels and may be involved in migraine.
they may be safe, but controlled studies are  needed to confirm this.
these drugs are commonly used for treating epilepsy and bipolar disorder.
a preventive medication is usually started at a low dose, and then gradually increased.
doctors generally recommend starting with nonprescription pain relievers for  mild-to-moderate attacks.
however, studies to date do not indicate that ssris are helpful for migraine prevention.
however, the food  and drug administration (fda) has specifically approved only the following  types of drugs for treating migraine attacks: non-prescription drugs: excedrin migraine, advil migraine, motrin migraine  pain prescription drugs: triptans and ergotamine other types of drugs, including opioids and barbiturates, are sometimes  prescribed off-label for migraine treatment.
it is not uncommon for someone to experience a combination of headache types.
in 2008, the fda approved a drug (treximet) that combines in one pill both sumatriptan and the anti-inflammatory pain reliever naproxen (aleve, naprosyn).
ergotamine drugs tend to be less effective than triptans, but are helpful for some patients.
if the symptoms do not respond to treatment and cause severe nausea and  vomiting, the patient may need to be hospitalized.
such patients should call a  doctor promptly if the quality of a headache or accompanying symptoms has  changed.
no  migraine products have officially been approved for use in children.
keeping a headache diary is a useful way to identify triggers that bring on headaches, as well as to track the duration and frequency of headache attacks.
patients with worsening headache or headaches that do not respond to  routine treatment.
about 75% of all migraine sufferers are women.
newer triptans include almotriptan (axert),  zolmitriptan (zomig), naratriptan (amerge), rizatriptan (maxalt), frovatriptan  (frova), and eletriptan (relpax).
avoid food triggers.
these symptoms occur about 10 - 90 minutes before the headache.
triptans have the  following benefits: they are effective for most patients with migraine, as well as patients  with combination tension and migraine headaches.
sumatriptan is effective for many patients, but headache recurs in 20 - 40% of people within 24 hours after taking the drug.
2007 mar;128(1-2):111-27.
some beta-blockers, however, are also useful in reducing the frequency of migraine attacks and their severity when they occur.
certain non-headache medications, such as anti-anxiety  drugs or beta-blockers, require gradual withdrawal under medical supervision.
(it should again be emphasized that a headache is not a common symptom of a brain tumor.)
for some women, migraines also tend to be worse during the first trimester of pregnancy, but improve during the last trimester.
if you find that you need to use acute migraine treatment more frequently, talk to your doctor about preventive medications.
2007 nov 15;76(10):1518-22.
if you find that you need to use acute migraine treatment more  frequently, talk to your doctor about preventive medications.
some studies have found that the combination of sumatriptan and naproxen works  better for migraine relief than either drug alone.
common food triggers include monosodium glutamate (msg), processed lunch meats that contain nitrates, dried fruits that contain sulfites, aged cheese, alcohol and red wine, chocolate, and caffeine.
dec 28;63(12):2215-24.
a throbbing pain around or behind the eyes or in the forehead accompanied  by redness in the eye and perceptions of halos or rings around lights  (possibility of acute glaucoma)
a typical migraine attack produces the following symptoms: less common symptoms include tearing and redness in one eye, swelling of the eyelid, and nasal congestion, including runny nose.
some doctors believe that, unless otherwise demonstrated, any chronic headache consisting of episodes of disabling pain that recur regularly over years should be considered as a migraine.
topiramate (topamax).
silberstein s, tfelt-hansen p, dodick dw, limmroth v, lipton rb, pascual j, et al.
[elavil]) a preventive medication strategy needs to be carefully tailored to an  individual patient, taking into account the patient's medical history and  co-existing medical conditions.
some patients with mild migraines respond well to over-the-counter (otc) painkillers, particularly if they take the medicine at the very first sign of an attack.
some patients report relief as soon as 15 minutes after administration.
one exception may be ginger, which has no side effects and can be eaten in powder or fresh form, as long as quantities are not excessive.
instead, headache pain begins in one or more of the following locations: headache is generally categorized as primary or secondary.
some people have reported less pain and frequency of migraines while taking ginger, and children can take it without danger.
the patient must expect their headache to get worse after they stop taking  their medications, no matter which method they use.
in 2007, following reports of several drug-related deaths, the food and drug administration warned that the cancer pain pill fentanyl (fentora) should not be used to treat patients with migraine or others conditions for which the drug is not specifically approved.
topiramate's most common side effect is a tingling sensation in the arms and legs.
comparison studies with sumatriptan suggest that some of the newer drugs may have fewer side effects and may be better for providing immediate, sustained, and consistent pain relief.
if the results of the history and physical examination suggest neurologic problems such as: for patients with headache: imaging tests may also be recommended for: the following tests may be used: headaches indicating a serious underlying problem, such as cerebrovascular disorder or malignant hypertension, are uncommon.
other eye and neurologic disorders must be ruled out.
some studies have found that the combination of sumatriptan and naproxen works better for migraine relief than either drug alone.
arbs have actions similar to ace inhibitors, but may have fewer side effects.
the patient may take other pain medicines during the first days.
it may work best for patients who also have depression or insomnia.
sumatriptan (imitrex) has the longest track record  and is the most studied of all triptans.
about half of women with migraines report an association with menstruation.
depending on the severity of the attacks, and accompanying  symptoms, the doctor may recommend taking a triptan or ergotamine drug in  tablet, injection, or suppository form.
efficacy of zolmitriptan nasal spray in adolescent migraine.
new migraine drug approved
limit estrogen-containing medications.
many people with migraine have or have a history of depression, anxiety, stroke, epilepsy, irritable bowel syndrome, or high blood pressure.
(triptans should not, in any case, be the first-line  treatment for children.)
in 2004, the food and drug administration approved topiramate for prevention of migraines in adults.
making a few minor changes in your lifestyle can make your migraines more bearable.
divalproex sodium (depakote).
the most common cause of chronic migraine is the rebound effect, which is a cycle caused by overuse of migraine medications.
in april 2008, the fda approved a new prescription drug (treximet) for treatment of migraine headache attacks.
some studies suggest that omega-3 fatty acids, which are found in fish oil, have anti-inflammatory and nerve protecting actions.
they help maintain serotonin levels in the  brain, and so specifically target one of the major components in the migraine  process.
metoprolol (toprol), atenolol (tenormin), and nadolol (corgard) are also being studied for migraine prevention.
side effects of triptans may include: tingling and numbness in the toes sensations of warmth discomfort in the ear, nose, and throat nausea dizziness muscle weakness heaviness, pain, or both in the chest.
the nasal spray form bypasses the stomach and is absorbed more quickly  than the oral form.
migraines have a significant negative impact on quality of life, family relations, and work productivity.
patients can also help prevent migraines by identifying and avoiding potential triggers, such as specific foods.
some commercially available products use a pad containing a gel that cools the skin for several hours.
back to top treatment approaches migraine treatment involves both treating acute attacks when they occur,  and developing preventive strategies for reducing the frequency and severity of  attacks.
researchers are investigating a transcranial magnetic stimulation (tms) device to help stop migraines before they occur.
although triptans, (like all migraine medications), are approved only for  adults, researchers are investigating zolmitriptan for treating migraines in  adolescents.
children with a family history of migraine may be more likely to continue having migraines.
in order to diagnose a chronic headache, the doctor will examine the head and neck and will usually perform a neurologic examination, which includes a series of simple exercises to test strength, reflexes, coordination, and sensation.
non-medication methods, including  biofeedback and muscle relaxation techniques may be helpful.
chronic migraines may occur from overuse of migraine medications (called a rebound headache) or may develop over time (called transformed migraine).
improving sleep habits is important for everyone, and especially those with headaches.
triptans (also referred to as serotonin agonists) were the first drugs specifically developed for use against migraine.
anti-seizure drugs are more expensive than other drugs.
just like a drug, herbs and supplements can affect the body's chemistry, and therefore have the potential to produce side effects that may be harmful.
(it should again be  emphasized that a headache is not a common symptom of a brain tumor.)
click the icon to see a comparison of headache symptoms.
headaches accompanied by fever, stiff neck, nausea and vomiting  (possibility of spinal meningitis) headaches that increase with coughing or straining (possibility of brain  swelling).
keeping a headache diary that tracks diet and headache onset can help identify individual food triggers.
the following people should avoid triptans or take them with caution and  only with the advisement of a doctor: anyone with a history or any risk factors for stroke, uncontrolled  diabetes, high blood pressure, or heart disease.
otc pain relievers, (also called analgesics), include: nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs such as ibuprofen (advil, motrin),  naproxen (aleve), and aspirin.
some patients report that magnesium supplements help provide relief.
a pfo is a hole in the wall dividing the upper left and right heart chambers.
in 2007, the fda pulled 15 unapproved older ergotamine products off the market, in part because they lacked this warning label.
there is certainly a strong genetic component in migraine with or without auras.
practice parameter: pharmacological treatment of migraine headache in children and adolescents: report of the american academy of neurology quality standards subcommittee and the practice committee of the child neurology society.
familial hemiplegic migraine.
an analysis of several studies reported that aerobic exercise in particular might help prevent migraines.
choosing bone density tests bmi calculator calcium calculator diabetes risk quiz heart attack risk calculator calories burned calculator colon cancer risk quiz
cbt may be included with stress management techniques.
in 2008, the fda approved a drug (treximet) that combines in one pill both  sumatriptan and the anti-inflammatory pain reliever naproxen (aleve, naprosyn).
ergotamine may  still be helpful for patients with status migrainous or those with frequent  recurring headaches.
in placebo-controlled studies, the arb candesartan (atacand) helped reduce migraine frequency.
biofeedback training teaches the patient to monitor and modify physical responses, such as muscle tension, using special instruments for feedback.
studies have showed mixed results on the benefits of acupuncture for preventing migraine.
still, many patients are treated with unapproved drugs, including opoids and barbiturates that can be potentially addictive or dangerous.
they include: migraine attack.
ergotamine is available by prescription in the following preparations: ergotamine's role since the introduction of triptans is now less certain.
if these methods  fail, then preventive drugs may be used, although evidence is weak on the  effectiveness of standard migraine preventive drugs in children.
some of them use capsaicin, the chemical found in cayenne peppers, to help relieve pain.
nearly 9 in 10 patients who think they have sinus headaches actually have or probably have had a migraine.
doctors sometimes prescribe a similar drug, valproate (depakene).
migraine is the most common form of disabling headache that prompts patients to seek care from doctors.
the american academy of neurology's practice guidelines for children and adolescents recommend the following drug treatments: migraine prevention for children.
many other drugs are also being used or investigated for preventing migraines.
non-medication methods, including biofeedback and muscle relaxation techniques may be helpful.
imaging tests of the brain may be recommended under the following circumstances.
(if caffeine is the culprit, a person may need only to reduce coffee or tea drinking to a reasonable level, not necessarily stop drinking it altogether.)
the patient should expect the following: many different medications are used to treat migraines.
opioids are not approved for migraine treatment and should not be used as first-line therapy.
studies from 2006 indicated that the drug works well when used on a long-term basis.
treximet is a pill that contains a combination of the triptan drug sumatriptan (imitrex) and the anti-inflammatory pain reliever naproxen (aleve, naprosyn).
common migraine triggers include: migraine treatment approaches migraines need a two-pronged approach: treatment and prevention.
botulinum toxin a (botox) injection, a common wrinkle treatment, causes small muscles to relax.
however, people's responses to triggers differ.
if migraine pain is severe, a prescription version of  an nsaid may be recommended.
many studies have demonstrated that biofeedback is effective for reducing migraine headache frequency.
opioids and barbiturates have not been approved by the fda for migraine relief, and they can be addictive.
neurostimulation devices.
apr 22;70(17):1555-63.
a preventive medication is usually started at a low dose, and then  gradually increased.
muscle relaxation techniques are simple and easy to learn, and can be effective.
it is being studied as a preventive approach for reducing the frequency of migraine attacks and patients' reliance on pain medications.
the fda-approved migraine product excedrin  migraine contains acetaminophen, as well as aspirin and caffeine.
a triptan is generally the next drug of choice.
researchers have located a single genetic mutation responsible for the very rare familial hemiplegic migraine, but several genes are likely to be involved in the great majority of migraine cases.
research indicates that cbt is most effective when combined with relaxation training or biofeedback.
(about 40% of patients taking  sumatriptan experience these symptoms, and they are major factors in  discontinuing the drug.
all ergotamine products approved by the food and drug administration (fda) contain a "black box" warning in the prescription label explaining these drug interactions.
although the incidence of migraine is similar for boys and girls during childhood, it increases in girls after puberty.
if migraine pain is severe, a prescription version of an nsaid may be recommended.
back to top medications for treating migraine attacks many different medications are used to treat migraines.
ginger is also a popular home remedy for relieving nausea.
in this  age group, it is particularly important to first rule out age-related disorders  including stroke, low blood sugar (hypoglycemia), accumulation of fluid within  the brain (hydrocephalus), and head injuries (usually from falls).
talk to your doctor about whether you should stop taking these types of medications or reduce the dosage.
migraines and tension headaches have some similar characteristics, but also some important differences: [for more information, see in-depth report #11: tension-type headache.]
treating migraine attacks many effective headache remedies are available for treating a migraine  attack.
everyone should call a doctor for any of the following symptoms: sudden, severe headache that persists or increases in intensity over the  following hours, sometimes accompanied by nausea, vomiting, or altered mental  states (possible hemorrhagic stroke)
about half of patients with pfo have severe migraines with aura.
preventive treatment may be needed for 6 - 12 months or longer.
still, women should be cautious about taking  any medications during pregnancy and discuss any possible adverse effects with  their doctors.
a real sinus headache is a sign of an acute sinus infection, which responds to treatment with antibiotics.
it is important, however, to warm up gradually before beginning a session, since sudden, vigorous exercise might actually precipitate or aggravate a migraine attack.
these drugs include pain relievers such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (nsaids), triptans such as sumatriptan (imitrex), and ergotamine drugs.
a neck x-ray can reveal arthritis or spinal problems.
no experimental model fully explains the migraine process.
nearly all drugs used for migraine can  cause rebound headache, and patients should not take any the drugs more than 9  days per month.
other anti-seizure drugs under investigation.
depending on the severity of the attacks, and accompanying symptoms, the doctor may recommend taking a triptan or ergotamine drug in tablet, injection, or suppository form.
vitamin b2 is generally safe, although some people taking high doses develop diarrhea.
there is no evidence to date of any higher risk for birth defects in  pregnant women who take triptans.
the american academy of neurology's practice guidelines for  children and adolescents recommend the following drug treatments: for children age 6 years and older, ibuprofen (advil) is recommended.
migraine is more prevalent among women throughout the world and in every culture.
new types of nasal sprays and powders are being researched.
drugs currently approved for migraine prevention include the beta-blocker drugs propanolol (inderal) and timolol (blacadrene), and the anti-seizure drugs divalproex (depakote) and topiramate (topamax).back to top
there is a risk for addiction, and these drugs can become ineffective with long-term use for chronic migraines.
ergotamine drugs tend to be less effective than triptans, but are helpful for  some patients.
does this patient with headache have a migraine or need neuroimaging?jama .
the main preventive drug treatments for migraine are: beta-blocker drugs (usually propranolol [inderal] or timolol [blocadren] anti-seizure drugs (usually divalproex [depakote] or topiramate [topamax] tricyclic antidepressants {usually amitriptyline
examples  of drugs that may be used include dihydroergotamine (with or without  metoclopramide), nsaids (in mild cases), corticosteroids, or valproate.
mild, barely noticeable 2 =
aspirin does not increase the risk for heart problems, but it can cause other nsaid-related side effects.
they include, but are not limited to: about 29.5 million americans suffer from migraine headaches.
side effects for all opioids include drowsiness, impaired judgment, nausea, and constipation.
people with migraines who fast periodically for religious reasons might consider taking preventive medications.
changes in the way someone walks changes in someone's mental status (disorientation) for patients with headache: that wakes them at night
secondary headaches are caused by other medical conditions, such as sinusitis, neck injuries or abnormalities, and stroke.
if these methods fail, then preventive drugs may be used, although evidence is weak on the effectiveness of standard migraine preventive drugs in children.
migraine tends to run in families.
migraines tend to run in families.
it is administered as a  nasal spray form (migranal) or by injection, which can be performed at home.
it may be accompanied by vomiting, double vision, a droopy eyelid, and paralysis of eye muscles.
metoclopramide (reglan) is used in combinations with other drugs to treat the nausea and vomiting that occurs with other drugs and with migraine itself.
metoclopramide and other anti-nausea drugs, such as domperidone (motilium), may help the intestine better absorb migraine medications.
pain relievers some patients with mild migraines respond well to over-the-counter (otc)  painkillers, particularly if they take the medicine at the very first sign of  an attack.
[nsaids] or acetaminophen) ergotamines triptans it is best to treat a migraine attack as soon as symptoms first occur.
nestoriuc y, martin a. efficacy of biofeedback for migraine: a meta-analysis.
more research is needed.
however, like all effective headache remedies, overuse can cause a rebound effect.
many effective headache remedies are available for treating a migraine attack.
triptan drugs used  to treat migraine, as well as certain types of antidepressant medications, can  increase serotonin levels.
the pain from a headache does not start from inside the brain.
the patient can usually stop abruptly  or gradually.
attacks can last from hours to months.
the doctor may also prescribe specific  medications for treating symptoms such as nausea.
aspirin does not increase the risk for heart problems, but it can  cause other nsaid-related side effects.
the following are potentially serious  problems.
acupuncture is a chinese medicine technique that uses thin needles to stimulate specific points aligned with energy pathways in the body.
comparison studies with sumatriptan suggest  that some of the newer drugs may have fewer side effects and may be better for  providing immediate, sustained, and consistent pain relief.
ophthalmoplegic migraine.
these drugs can have serious side effects.
injected sumatriptan works the fastest of all  the triptans and is the most effective, but it can cause pain at the injection  site.
however, migraine also affects about 5 - 10% of all children.
symptoms include restlessness,  hallucinations, rapid heartbeat, tremors, increased body temperature, diarrhea,  nausea, and vomiting.
researchers have investigated newer types of antidepressants, including serotonin-reuptake inhibitors (ssris), such as fluoxetine (prozac).
although migraine is considered to be a specific chronic illness, it has various presentations that occur in different individuals.
patients in these studies experienced significantly fewer migraines for up to 14 months.
the doctor may ask questions to test short-term memory and related aspects of mental function.
side effects of ergotamine include: the following are potentially serious problems: the following patients should avoid ergots: ergotamine can interact with other medications, such as antifungal drugs and some antibiotics.
to date, there is still no proven benefit.
lipton rb, bigal me, diamond m, freitag f, reed ml, stewart wf; ampp advisory group.
patients should consider using preventive migraine drugs if they have: migraines that are not helped by acute treatment drugs frequent attacks (more than once per week)
withdrawing from medications if medication overuse causes rebound migraines develop, the patients cannot  recover without stopping the drugs.
studies indicate that people with migraines have poorer social interactions and emotional health than patients with many chronic medical illnesses, including asthma, diabetes, and arthritis.
in one study, the risk for transformed migraines were associated with other factors, including allergies, asthma, hypothyroidism, hypertension, and a daily intake of caffeine.
the patient should expect the following: most headache drugs can be stopped abruptly, but the patient should talk  to their doctor first.
if the patient chooses to taper off standard headache medications,  withdrawal should be completed within three days.
these include: a wide range of events and conditions can alter conditions in the brain that bring on nerve excitation and trigger migraines.
there have been several reported cases of serious and even lethal side effects from herbal products.
it may also leave a bad taste.
the nasal spray form bypasses the stomach and is absorbed more quickly than the oral form.
patients can also help prevent migraines by identifying and avoiding  potential triggers, such as specific foods.
these conditions do not necessarily increase the risk for migraine, but are associated with it.
most  patients take preventive medications on a daily basis, but some patients may  use these drugs intermittently (for example, for preventing menstrual migraine).
all fda-approved migraine treatments are approved only for adults.
after a migraine attack, there is usually a postdrome phase, in which patients may feel exhausted and mentally foggy for a while.
the patient should report any other conditions that might be associated with headache, including but not limited to: the doctor will also need a general medical and family history of headaches or diseases, such as epilepsy, that may increase their risk.
if untreated, attacks usually last from 4 - 72 hours.
only the rectal forms of ergotamine are superior to rectal triptans.
monastero r, camarda c, pipia c, camarda r. prognosis of migraine headaches in adolescents: a 10-year follow-up study.
people  with existing chronic headaches, however, might miss a more serious condition  by believing it to be one of their usual headaches.
the process involves the following: medications implicated in rebound migraines include nonprescription painkillers (acetaminophen, aspirin, ibuprofen), barbiturates, sedatives, narcotics, and migraine medications, particularly those that also contain caffeine.
considered a subtype of migraine with aura, this migraine starts in the basilar artery, which forms at the base of the skull.
jan 7;332(7532):25-9.
the spray tends to work less well when a person has nasal  congestion from cold or allergy.
acetaminophen (tylenol) may also be effective.
some of the tablet forms of  ergotamine contain caffeine.
tricyclics can have significant side effects, including disturbances in heart rhythms, and can be fatal in overdose.
if sinus headches seem to recur, the patient is likely actually experiencing migraines.
divalproex and topiramate are anti-seizure drugs.
some studies have found that people who take vitamin b2 experience a reduction in the frequency of migraine attacks (although not on duration or severity).
most people feel better  within 2 weeks, although headache symptoms can persist up to 16 weeks (and in  rare cases even longer).
patients should always check with their doctors before using any herbal remedies or dietary supplements.
in some cases, patients eventually experience on-going and chronic headaches.
although triptans, (like all migraine medications), are approved only for adults, researchers are investigating zolmitriptan for treating migraines in adolescents.
high dosages and long-term use of nsaids can  increase the risk for heart attack, stroke, kidney problems, and stomach  bleeding.
you should seek immediate medical care if you have these  symptoms.
triptan drugs can provide relief and may also help prevent these types of migraines.
angiotensin-receptor blockers.
sudden, very severe headache, worse than any headache ever experienced  (possible indication of hemorrhage or a ruptured aneurysm) chronic or severe headaches that begin after age 50 headaches in the back of the head accompanied by other symptoms, such as  memory loss, confusion, loss of balance, changes in speech or vision, or loss  of strength in or numbness or tingling in arms or legs (possibility of small  stroke in the base of the skull) headaches after head injury, especially if drowsiness or nausea are  present (possibility of hemorrhage)
cognitive-behavioral therapy (cbt) teaches patients how to recognize and cope with stressors in their life.
back to top the food and drug administration has approved four drugs for prevention of migraine: propanolol and timolol are beta-blocker drugs.
a sudden or severe headache, or a headache that is the worst headache of  someone's life imaging tests may also be recommended for: patients with a history of cancer or weakened immune system new headaches in adults over 50 years, especially in the elderly.
riboflavin (vitamin b2).
these fatty acids can be found in oily fish, such as salmon, mackerel, or sardines.
rapid heart rate complications of triptans.
angiotensin-receptor blockers (arbs) are another type of high blood pressure medications.
2007;147(9):itc11-1-itc11-16.back to top treating major depression meditation and stress cravings and weight loss your rights as a patient flu overview sleep and pain flu prevention the role of a caregiver how to quit for good cold and flu smarts for kids diet & energy
such events are  rare, but patients with an existing history or risk factors for these  conditions should generally avoid triptans.
migraine most commonly affects women between the ages of 20 - 45.
different people respond to different triggers, so it is important to track your migraine patterns to help avoid migraine attacks.
exercise is certainly helpful for relieving stress.
migraine prevention for children.
ergotamine is available by  prescription in the following preparations: dihydroergotamine (dhe) is an ergot derivative.
ergotamine's role since the introduction of triptans is now less certain.
triptans narrow (constrict) blood  vessels.
visually, auras are referred to as being positive or negative: other neurologic symptoms may occur at the same time as the aura, although they are less common.
back to top detsky me, mcdonald dr, baerlocher mo, tomlinson ga, mccrory dc, booth cm.
symptoms may include vertigo (the room spins), ringing in the ears, slurred speech, unsteadiness, possibly loss of consciousness, and severe headaches.
some studies suggest that people who have migraine with aura are more likely than people without migraine to have cardiovascular risk factors (high cholesterol, high blood pressure) that increase the risk for stroke.
these include diclofenac (cataflam), which is taken by mouth, and ketorolac (toradol), which is given by injection.
high dosages and long-term use of nsaids can increase the risk for heart attack, stroke, kidney problems, and stomach bleeding.
otc pain relievers, (also called analgesics), include: there are also prescription-only nsaids.
the pain centers around one eye and is usually less intense than in a standard migraine.
it is also possible for patients to have migraines with sinus symptoms.
the hair dryer-size device is held to the back of the head and delivers quick magnetic pulses.
guidelines for controlled trials of prophylactic treatment of chronic migraine in adults.
in clinical trials, patients lost an average of 3.8% of their body weight.
you should try a healthy diet, the right amount of sleep, and non-drug approaches (such as biofeedback) first for prevention.
most children with migraines may need only mild pain relievers and home remedies (such as ginger tea) to treat their headaches.
fluctuations of female hormones, such as estrogen and progesterone, appear to increase the risk for migraines and their severity in some women.
sumatriptan is  effective for many patients, but headache recurs in 20 - 40% of people within  24 hours after taking the drug.
treatment approaches for children migraine treatment for children.
back to top there are several ways to prevent migraine attacks.
they are the most important  migraine drugs currently available.
withdrawal after overuse appears to be shorter and less severe than with  other migraine medications sumatriptan.
a diagnosis of migraine is usually made on the basis of repeated attacks (at least 5) that meet the following criteria: the patient should try to recall what seems to bring on the headache and anything that relieves it.
newer triptans include almotriptan (axert), zolmitriptan (zomig), naratriptan (amerge), rizatriptan (maxalt), frovatriptan (frova), and eletriptan (relpax).
differentiating between migraines and sinus headaches.
distracts from work/activities 4 = makes work/activities very difficult 5 =
they are usually mild in the morning and increase during the day and are usually accompanied by fever, runny nose, congestion, and general debilitation.
butorphanol is an opioid in nasal spray form that may be useful as a rescue treatment when others fail.
opioids and barbiturates have not  been approved by the fda for migraine relief, and they can be addictive.
this is a very rare inherited genetic migraine disease.
it is available as a fast-dissolving  pill, nasal spray, or injection.
ergotamine is available tablets taken by mouth, tablets taken under the  tongue (sublingual), and rectal suppositories.
triptans triptans (also referred to as serotonin agonists) were the first drugs  specifically developed for use against migraine.
some tips include: 1 =
they also have significant side effects.
anxiety (particularly panic disorders) and major depression are also strongly associated with migraines.
when triggered by various stimuli, this disorder sets off a chain of neurologic and biochemical events, some of which subsequently affect the brain's vascular system.
gaba may also have a role in migraines.
(the brain itself can not feel pain.)
the five fda-approved ergotamine products that remain on the market are: if the pain is very severe and does respond to other drugs, doctors may try painkillers containing opioids.
now, however, doctors tend to believe that migraine starts with an underlying central nervous system disorder.
no migraine products have officially been approved for use in children.
relaxation therapy techniques include relaxation response, progressive muscle relaxation, visualization, and deep breathing.
although other tricyclic antidepressants may have fewer side effects than amitritpyline, they do not appear to be particularly effective for migraine prevention.
menstrual migraines.
it may take 2 - 3 months for a drug to achieve its full effect.
they are the most important migraine drugs currently available.
ergotamine may still be helpful for patients with status migrainous or those with frequent recurring headaches.
try to guard against rebound effect.
lewis d, ashwal s, hershey a, hirtz d, yonker m, silberstein s, et al.
sierpina v, astin j, giordano j. mind-body therapies for headache.
sep 13;296(10):1274-83.
a headache may precede or occur with the eye symptoms.
side effects of ergotamine include: nausea
auras are sensory disturbances that occur before the migraine attack in 1 in 5 patients.
the following are potentially serious problems.
migraine treatment for children.
cognitive behavioral therapy.
divalproex sodium (depakote) was first approved in 1996 for migraine prevention.
acetaminophen works faster than  ibuprofen, but the effects of ibuprofen last longer.
side effects may include: if side effects occur, the patient should call a doctor, but it is extremely important not to stop the drug abruptly.
they can also be obtained in supplements of specific omega-3 compounds (dha-epa).
triptans are also being investigated for prevention under certain circumstances, such as menstrual migraines, but benefits appear limited.
migraine triggers migraines can be triggered by many everyday things.
if headache attacks continue to occur on a weekly basis, your doctor may recommend you try preventive medication.
migraine or severe headache is a risk factor for stroke in both men and women, especially before age 50.
other imaging tests include an mri (magnetic resonance imaging), eeg  (electroencephalogram), lumbar puncture, ultrasound testing, and cerebral  angiography, positron emission tomography (pet), and single-photon emission  computed tomography (spect).
some patients may also find that relaxation techniques combined with applying a cold compress to the forehead may help provide some pain relief during attacks.
migraine prevalence, disease burden, and the need for preventive therapy.
weight loss is also a side effect.
prodrome symptoms include: auras.
such patients should call a doctor promptly if the quality of a headache or accompanying symptoms has changed.
side effects of triptans may include: complications of triptans.
they generally include: behavioral methods may help counteract the tendency for muscle contraction and uneven blood flow associated with some headaches.
however, the food and drug administration (fda) has specifically approved only the following types of drugs for treating migraine attacks: other types of drugs, including opioids and barbiturates, are sometimes prescribed off-label for migraine treatment.
emotional disorders and quality of life.
people with existing chronic headaches, however, might miss a more serious condition by believing it to be one of their usual headaches.
doctors generally recommend starting with nonprescription pain relievers for mild-to-moderate attacks.
triptans are recommended as first-line drugs for adult patients with moderate-to-severe migraines when nsaids are not effective.
everyone should call a doctor for any of the following symptoms: migraine treatment involves both treating acute attacks when they occur, and developing preventive strategies for reducing the frequency and severity of attacks.
nearly all drugs used for migraine can cause rebound headache, and patients should not take any the drugs more than 9 days per month.
other types of nerve stimulation devices are also under investigation.
(if caffeine is the culprit, a person may  need only to reduce coffee or tea drinking to a reasonable level, not  necessarily stop drinking it altogether.)
they may be particularly beneficial for children, adolescents, and pregnant and nursing women, and anyone who cannot take most migraine medications.
research indicates that migraine may also increase the risk for other types of heart problems.
pregnant patients should not use these drugs, as they may cause birth defects.
a headache is considered primary when a disease or other medical condition does not cause it.
migraine with aura appears to carry a higher risk for stroke than migraine without aura, especially for women.
they were the first anti-migraine drugs available.
because of this effect, spasms in the blood vessels may occur and  cause serious side effects, including stroke and heart attack.
about 70 - 80% of patients with migraine have a family history of the condition.
if medication overuse causes rebound migraines develop, the patients cannot recover without stopping the drugs.
sumatriptan (imitrex) has the longest track record and is the most studied of all triptans.
treatment uses medications that provide quick pain relief when attacks occur.
for adolescents age 12 years and older, sumaptriptan (imitrex) nasal spray  is recommended.
preventing migraine attacks preventive strategies for migraine include both drug treatment and  behavioral therapy or lifestyle adjustments.
the fda-approved migraine products advil  migraine and motrin migraine pain both contain ibuprofen.
the main types of medications for treating a migraine attack are: it is best to treat a migraine attack as soon as symptoms first occur.
magnesium supplements.
injected,  oral, and nasal-spray forms are all inferior to the triptans.
unlike migraine in adults, migraines in children are equally prevalent in boys and girls.
researchers are studying other types of anti-seizure drugs for migraine prevention.
beta-blockers are usually prescribed to reduce high blood pressure.
in general, herbal medicines should never be used by children or pregnant or nursing women without medical counsel.
some studies have indicated that a combination of sumatriptan and naproxen works better for migraine pain relief than either drug alone.
injected, oral, and nasal-spray forms are all inferior to the triptans.
they help maintain serotonin levels in the brain, and so specifically target one of the major components in the migraine process.
ebell, mh.diagnosis of migraine headache.
however, if patients do not respond to either of these drugs, doctors may try other types of anti-seizure medications.
newer drugs, such as almotriptan, produce fewer chest  symptoms.)
preventive strategies begin with non-drug approaches (behavioral therapies, lifestyle changes).
researchers think that estrogen plays a role.
most patients take preventive medications on a daily basis, but some patients may use these drugs intermittently (for example, for preventing menstrual migraine).
the device is used when a patient experiences the first signs of a migraine.
these include levetiracetam (keppra), gabapentin (neurontin), pregabalin (lyrica), zonisamide (zonegran), and tiagabine (gabitril).
such headaches resemble tension headaches but are more likely to be accompanied by gastrointestinal distress and mental or visual disturbances and, in women, to be affected by menstrual cycles.
relaxation therapy and stress  reduction techniques may also help.
these antidepressant drugs include serotonin  reuptake inhibitors (ssris) -- such as fluoxetine (prozac), paroxetine (paxil),  and sertraline (zoloft) -- and selective serotonin/norepinephrine reuptake  inhibitors (snris), such as duloxetine (cymbalta) and venlafaxine (effexor).
the following people should avoid triptans or take them with caution and only with the advisement of a doctor: drugs containing ergotamine (commonly called ergots) constrict smooth muscles, including those in blood vessels, and are useful for migraine.
estrogen decline after menopause may be responsible for remission in some older women.
eating regularly is important to prevent low blood sugar.
divalproex sodium (depakote) and topiramate (topamax) are the only anti-seizure drugs that are approved for migraine prevention.
symptoms that could indicate a serious underlying condition headaches indicating a serious underlying problem, such as cerebrovascular  disorder or malignant hypertension, are uncommon.
the doctor may also prescribe specific medications for treating symptoms such as nausea.
serotonin syndrome is a life-threatening condition  that occurs from an excess of the brain chemical serotonin.
back to top for many people, migraines eventually go into remission and sometimes disappear completely, particularly as they age.
feverfew is the most studied herbal remedy for headaches and may help in some cases.
(triptans are not indicated  for these migraineurs.)
back to top anyone, including children, with recurring or persistent headaches should consult a doctor.
people with basilar or hemiplegic migraines.
(such symptoms are more common in certain other headaches, notably cluster headaches.)
some studies have reported a higher rate of magnesium deficiencies in some patients with migraine, such as those with menstrual migraines.
injected sumatriptan works the fastest of all the triptans and is the most effective, but it can cause pain at the injection site.
anti-seizure medication's side effects vary by drug but may include: amitriptyline (elavil, endep), a tricyclic antidepressant drug, has been used for many years as a first-line treatment for migraine prevention.
a one-sided headache in the temple in elderly people; the artery in the  temple is firm and knotty and has no pulse; scalp is tender (possibility of  temporal arteritis, which can cause blindness or even stroke if not treated) sudden onset and then persistent, throbbing pain around the eye possibly  spreading to the ear or neck unrelieved by pain medication (possibility of  blood clot in one of the sinus veins of the brain)
migraines are sometimes classified as occurring with aura (previously called classic migraine) or without aura (previously called common migraine).
(heavy caffeine use can also cause this condition.)
nevertheless, many opioid products are prescribed to patients with migraine, sometimes with dangerous results.
they affect about 18% of all women and 6% of men.
doctors should not prescribe opioids to patients at risk for drug abuse, including those with personality or psychiatric disorders.
these include diclofenac  (cataflam), which is taken by mouth, and ketorolac (toradol), which is given by  injection.
they do not have the sedative effect of other migraine drugs.
some evidence suggests that people with migraines who have had a stroke should avoid beta-blockers.
drugs containing ergotamine (commonly called ergots) constrict smooth  muscles, including those in blood vessels, and are useful for migraine.
it  is very important that patients not combine a triptan drug with a ssri or snri  drug.
studies generally find that these techniques work best when used in combination with medications.
these tests are only performed if there is reason  to suspect an underlying disease or as part of clinical studies.
it may take 2 - 3 months for a drug to achieve its full  effect.
preventive strategies for migraine include both drug treatment and behavioral therapy or lifestyle adjustments.
medications that contain estrogen, such as oral contraceptives and hormone replacement therapy, may trigger migraines or make them worse.
anti-seizure drugs, also called anti-epileptic drugs or anticonvulsants, affect the neurotransmitter gamma aminobutyric acid (gaba), which helps prevent nerve cells from over-firing.
the prodrome phase is a group of vague symptoms that may precede a migraine attack by several hours, or even a day or two.
about 19% of all strokes occur in people with a history of migraine.
most children with migraines may  need only mild pain relievers and home remedies (such as ginger tea) to treat  their headaches.
(see lifestyle section below.)
there are also prescription-only nsaids.
what you eat also has a huge impact on migraines, so dietary changes can be extremely beneficial, too.
about 2% of headaches are secondary headaches caused by abnormalities or infections in the nasal or sinus passages.
acetaminophen (tylenol).
sinus headaches occur in the front of the face, usually around the eyes, across the cheeks, or over the forehead.
the spray tends to work less well when a person has nasal congestion from cold or allergy.
they  were the first anti-migraine drugs available.
this very rare headache tends to occur in younger adults.
angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors.
2007 aug;120(2):390-6.
avoiding foods that trigger migraine is an important preventive measure.
triptans are also  being investigated for prevention under certain circumstances, such as  menstrual migraines, but benefits appear limited.
it is so severe and lasts so long that it requires hospitalization.
transformed migraines.
symptoms of retinal migraine are short-term blind spots or total blindness in one eye that lasts less than an hour.
x-rays and other tests may also be used if sinusitis is strongly suspected.
it can help patients understand how their thoughts and behavior patterns may affect their symptoms, and how to change the way the body responds to anticipated pain.
it occurs mainly in young people.
children and adolescents.
it is available as a fast-dissolving pill, nasal spray, or injection.
a computed tomography (ct) or magnetic resonance imaging (mri) scan may be needed to rule out an aneurysm (a rupture blood vessel) in the brain.
patients should consider using preventive migraine drugs if they have: the main preventive drug treatments for migraine are: a preventive medication strategy needs to be carefully tailored to an individual patient, taking into account the patient's medical history and co-existing medical conditions.
a diagnosis will be made on the basis of history and physical exam, and, if necessary, tests may be necessary to rule out other diseases or conditions that may be causing the headaches.
lewis dw, winner p, hershey ad, wasiewski ww; adolescent migraine steering committee.