they work by reducing the swelling in the passageways of your nose and they may also help to ease breathing.
underground even though they spend a lot of time in close contact with each  other.
in adults and older children, the cold will usually last for about a week.
read more about thecauses  of cold.
this is  then followed by other symptoms, including: a blocked nose (nasal congestion) nasal pain and irritation sneezing a runny nose (nasal discharge) – the discharge is usually clear  and runny at first before becoming thicker and darker over the course of the  infection coughing – this symptom occurs in one out of every three  cases a hoarse voice a general sense of feeling unwell less common symptoms of a cold include: a usually mild temperature (fever) of around 38–39°c  (100.4–102.2°f) headache loss of taste and smell mild irritation of your eyes a feeling of pressure in your ears and face the symptoms of a cold are usually at their worst during the first two to  three days of the infection before they gradually start to improve.
most people usually know when they're  fit enough to return to normal activities.
check with your pharmacist or gp before  taking a cold remedy if you're taking any other painkillers.
if you're taking either of these medicines, check with your gp  or pharmacist before taking oral decongestants.
nasal decongestants shouldn't be used for more than five to seven days because using them for longer can actually make your congestion worse.
over-the-counter cold medications in england, over-the-counter (otc) cold medicines are probably the most  widely used type of medication.
adults have about two to four colds a year, and children have three to eight.
steam inhalation steam inhalation involves sitting with your head over a bowl of hot water.
if  you use nasal decongestants frequently or for a long time, your congestion may  end up getting worse.
if you have a cold and you sneeze, cough or speak, tiny droplets of fluid containing the cold virus are launched into the air.
seek medical help  immediately from your surgery or local hospital your child complains of pain in the nasal passages after two to four days  of home treatment your baby or child has, or seems to have, severe earache (babies with  earache often rub their ears and seem irritable) as they could have an ear  infection that may need antibiotic treatment your child complains of throat pain for longer than three or four days, or  their throat pain seems unusually severe, as they may have bacterial  tonsillitis that needs antibiotic treatment your child develops other symptoms such as pain or swelling in the face or  in the chest, a headache or a very bad sore throat your child seems to be getting worse rather than better why won’t my doctor prescribe antibiotics for my  child’s cold?
however, if you or your child has a cough, it may last for up to three weeks.
if your child is unwell, talk to your pharmacist about the best option if you need an otc medication.
nasal saline drops nasal saline drops or sprays can help relieve the symptoms of nasal  congestion in babies and young children.
the doctor is likely to  prescribe antibiotics only if your child has developed a bacterial infection  secondary to (on top of) a cold.
seek medical advice  if: a baby aged less than three months develops a fever higher than  38°c cold symptoms last for more than 10 days, particularly if your child is  coughing up green, yellow or brown sputum or has a fever – this could be  a sign of a bacterial infection that needs treatment with antibiotics your child is finding it difficult to breathe.
the steam may help to ease your congestion by loosening mucus and making it easier to clear by blowing your nose.
you feel chest pain you have breathing difficulties you experience severe swelling of your lymph nodes (glands) in your neck  and/or armpits
direct on 0845 4647, for an assessment.
oral  decongestants, such as pseudoephedrine, phenylpropanolamine and phenylephrine  are used in many otc cold remedies.
read more about thecauses of cold.
however, if you or  your child has a cough, it may last for up to three weeks.
avoid getting the hot steam in your eyes.
decongestants decongestants can be taken by mouth (oral decongestants) or they can be  taken as a spray in your nose (nasal decongestants).
is my child’s cold serious?
there's limited evidence to show how effective decongestants are.
nasal saline drops nasal saline drops or sprays can help relieve the symptoms of nasal congestion in babies and young children.
if someone  touches the object a short time later and then touches their mouth, nose or  eyes, they may become infected.
instead, a child may benefit from sitting in a hot, steamy bathroom.
this may be because  people are more likely to stay indoors and be in close contact with each other.
there's no evidence to support the use of antihistamines or cough syrups in treating a cold.
using both could cause adverse side effects.
research carried out in 2005 suggests that cold weather could make people  more vulnerable to developing a cold.
) you cough up blood-stained phlegm (thick mucus)
if you have high blood pressure (hypertension), heart problems or glaucoma (a group of eye conditions that affect vision), check with your gp before using an oral decongestant.
nasal decongestants work specifically on the nose.
a child’s immune system is less well developed compared to an  adult’s, so they're more vulnerable to infection.
use your own cup, plates, cutlery and kitchen utensils use disposable paper towels to dry your hands and face, rather than shared  towels.
there are more than 200 different cold viruses.
aspirin should also not be taken by children who are under 16 years old or by women who are breastfeeding.
also,  when decongestants do work, they often only ease symptoms for a short period of  time.
how a cold spreads a cold can be spread through: direct contact – for example, if you sneeze or  cough, tiny droplets of fluid containing the cold virus are launched into the  air and can be breathed in by others
a cold is a viral infection that affects the nose, throat and sinuses.
the  overuse of antibiotics can lead to antibiotic resistance where symptoms  don’t respond to treatment with antibiotics.
it can cause nasal stuffiness, a runny nose, sneezing, a sore throat  and a cough.
if you have a  cold and you touch your nose or eyes and then touch someone else, you may pass  the virus on to them.
in adults  and older children, the cold usually lasts for about a week.
the viruses that cause a cold attack the lining of the nose and throat, inflaming these areas.
back to top sinusitis sinusitis is a fairly common complication of a cold among adults and older children, occurring in an estimated 0.5-2% of cases.
drink plenty of fluids to replace any fluids you may have lost due to  sweating and having a runny nose.
the doctor is likely to prescribe antibiotics only if your child has developed a bacterial infection secondary to (on top of) a cold.
nasal saline drops or sprays are available from most pharmacists.
when to seek medical advice a visit to your gp is usually only necessary if: your symptoms persist for more than 14 days you have a high temperature (fever) of or above 39°c (102.2°f
these are listed below.
vapour rubs can help to soothe the symptoms of a cold in babies and young  children.
whether your child is a newborn, a toddler or a pre-schooler, this guide is for you.^^
symptoms of sinusitis include: pain and tenderness around your nose, eyes and forehead a blocked and runny nose
oral decongestants, such as pseudoephedrine, phenylpropanolamine and phenylephrine are used in many otc cold remedies.
more research is required to determine the recommended dose.
symptoms of otitis media include: approximately 80% of cases of otitis media will resolve themselves without treatment, usually within three days.
nasal decongestants, such as oxymetazoline,  xylometazoline, phenylephrine and ephedrine are applied directly to the inside  of the nose.
you can relieve the symptoms of the cold while the body fights off the infection by taking over-the-counter medication, such as paracetamol, and drinking plenty of fluids.
if you're pregnant, paracetamol – not ibuprofen – should be used for the short-term relief of mild to moderate pain and fever.
check the dosage instructions on the packaging.
they also act  as painkillers (for children, use children’s liquid paracetamol).
read the treating colds section for more information.^^ back to top the first symptom of a cold is usually a sore or irritated throat.
more than 200 types of virus can cause a cold.
back to top children
those most responsible for colds belong to one of two groups: because a number of viruses can cause a cold, it's possible to have several colds, one after the other, as each one is caused by a different virus.
painkillers such as ibuprofen, paracetamol and aspirin are the only type of medication known to be effective in treating colds.
women get more colds than men, possibly because they're more likely to come into close contact with children.
however, this is perfectly normal and it should only last for a few days.
usually it's a self-limiting infection – this means it  gets better by itself without the need for treatment.
many otc medications contain a combination of different medicines;  typically a painkiller, such as paracetamol, and a decongestant, such as  pseudoephedrine.
menthol sweets some people find that sucking a menthol sweet can help to relieve the  symptom of a sore throat.
don't take ibuprofen if you have a history of stomach ulcer, indigestion, asthma or kidney disease.
why colds occur in the winter colds are more frequent during the winter months.
otitis media otitis media is a middle ear infection and a common complication of  colds in children who are under five years old.
eat healthily: a low-fat, high-fibre diet is recommended, including plenty  of fresh fruit and vegetables (five portions a day).
back to top causes colds are caused by viruses.
always  follow the manufacturer's instructions to ensure that the correct dose is given.
vapour rubs can help to soothe the symptoms of a cold in babies and young children.
the overuse of antibiotics can lead to antibiotic resistance where symptoms don’t respond to treatment with antibiotics.
don't take ibuprofen if you have a history of stomach ulcer, indigestion,  asthma or kidney disease.
don't apply it to  their nostrils because this could cause pain and breathing difficulties.
never give aspirin to children  under 16 years old a warm, moist atmosphere can ease breathing if your child has a  blocked nose – take your child into the bathroom and run a hot bath or  shower or use a vaporiser to humidify the air keep the room aired and at a comfortable temperature, and don't let your  child get too hot.
a 2011 cochrane review suggests that taking zinc supplements within a day of the symptoms starting will speed up recovery and lessen the severity of symptoms.
avoid getting  the hot steam in your eyes.
additional treatment is usually  only required if your child has repeated episodes of otitis media.
this may be because people are more likely to stay indoors and be in close contact with each other.
symptoms of sinusitis include: in most cases, the symptoms of sinusitis will resolve without the need for treatment.
children who are under 16 years old or women who are breastfeeding should not take aspirin.
painkillers such as ibuprofen, paracetamol and aspirin are the only type of  medication known to be effective in treating colds.
always follow the manufacturer’s instructions carefully.
zinc supplements taking zinc syrup, tablets or lozenges may be an effective treatment for the common cold.
if these are breathed in by someone else then they may become infected.
top tips for parents encourage your child to rest and make sure they drink plenty of fluids.
however, if you have a cold, there are things you can do to help prevent it  from spreading.
how a cold spreads a cold can be spread through: in general, a person first becomes contagious two to three days before their symptoms begin, and they remain contagious until all their symptoms have gone.
if you use nasal decongestants frequently or for a long time, your congestion may end up getting worse.
antibiotics are used to treat infections caused by bacteria.
however, children mustn't be given both ibuprofen and paracetamol.
if you have a cold and you sneeze,  cough or speak, tiny droplets of fluid containing the cold virus are launched  into the air.
most otc cold medications aren't suitable for children under six years old.
paracetamol, ibuprofen and aspirin are also included in some otc cold  medicines with other ingredients.
back  to top prevention
many otc medications contain a combination of different medicines; typically a painkiller, such as paracetamol, and a decongestant, such as pseudoephedrine.
it occurs in an estimated 20% of cases.
if you have recently taken an otc cold medication, it may not be safe for you to take an additional painkiller.
gargling gargling with salt water can sometimes help to relieve the symptoms of a sore throat and nasal congestion.
children contract colds far more often than adults.
back to  top symptoms the first symptom of a cold is usually a sore or irritated throat.
oral decongestants may interact with some antidepressants and  beta-blockers.
nasal decongestants, such as oxymetazoline, xylometazoline, phenylephrine and ephedrine are applied directly to the inside of the nose.
colds,  however, are caused by viruses, which don’t respond to antibiotics.
in most cases, the symptoms of sinusitis will resolve without the need for  treatment.
more information about specific otc medication is provided below.
however, if you have a cold, there are things you can do to help prevent it from spreading.
therefore, if you take otc decongestants at bedtime, you may have problems sleeping at night.
nasal saline drops contain salt water so they're thought to work in the same way as gargling salt, but they're often better tolerated in babies and young children.
place a towel over your head, close your eyes and breathe deeply.
you should: wash your hands regularly and properly, particularly after touching your  nose or mouth and before handling food always sneeze and cough into tissues as this will help to prevent the  virus-containing droplets from your nose and mouth entering the air where they  can infect others; throw away used tissues immediately and wash your hands clean surfaces regularly to keep them free of germs
ibuprofen and paracetamol can be taken alternately over the course of a day  as long as you don't exceed the maximum dose for each.
the use of antibiotics to treat a cold is not recommended.
otitis media otitis media is a middle ear infection and a common complication of colds in children who are under five years old.
in these circumstances your gp may carry out tests to make sure that your symptoms aren't being caused by another type of infection that may be more serious, such aspneumonia (a bacterial infection of the lungs) or glandular fever (a viral infection caused by the epstein-barr virus).
children who are under 16 years old or women who are breastfeeding  should not take aspirin.
zinc supplements taking zinc syrup, tablets or lozenges may be an effective treatment for  the common cold.
these tests may include: blood tests chest x-rays taking a sample of tissue from your throat using a swab (a small cotton  bud with a plastic loop at the end), which is then checked for the presence of  bacteria ^^
however, higher rates of colds haven't been found in passengers on the london underground even though they spend a lot of time in close contact with each other.
colds tend to last longer in younger children who are under five.
in adults and older children, the cold usually lasts for about a week.
steam inhalation is not advised for children due to the risk of scalding.
as there are so many different viruses that can cause the common cold, a vaccination against the condition hasn't been developed yet.
water is fine but warm drinks can be soothing if they have a blocked nose you can make their breathing easier by raising  the pillow end of your child’s bed or cot by putting books or bricks  under the legs or placing a pillow under the mattress paracetamol liquid or ibuprofen liquid can help ease a fever and pain.
however, there isn’t much evidence that  certain otc medications are effective.
they're usually safe for adults and older children to use.
if you have a cold and you touch your nose or eyes and then touch someone else, you may pass the virus on to them.
there are more than 200 different cold viruses.
adding menthol, eucalyptus, camphor,  thymol or pine oil to the water may help to clear the passageways in your  nose.
in general, a person first becomes contagious two to three days before  their symptoms begin, and they remain contagious until all their symptoms  have gone.
what do colds do to the body?
cold symptoms in a  child may include araised temperature (fever).
don't apply it to their nostrils because this could cause pain and breathing difficulties.
what are the differences between adult and child colds?
if you have recently taken an otc cold medication, it may not be safe for  you to take an additional painkiller.
it's recommended that children with a cold only eat when they're hungry.
this type  of medication may only relieve some people from their cold symptoms.
if someone touches the object a short time later and then touches their mouth, nose or eyes, they may become infected.^^
however, further research is required to confirm this.
however, long-term use of zinc isn't recommended as it could cause side effects such as vomiting and diarrhoea.
back to top treatment self care
in most cases, you will be able to treat the symptoms of cold yourself at  home by using a number of self-care techniques.
their  symptoms typically last between 10–14 days.
they're usually safe for  adults and older children to use.
while adults usually have  two to four colds a year, children can catch as many as seven to 10.
research carried out in 2005 suggests that cold weather could make people more vulnerable to developing a cold.
a 2011 cochrane review suggests that taking zinc supplements within a  day of the symptoms starting will speed up recovery and lessen the severity of  symptoms.
don't give any form of oral decongestant to a child under six years old, as it may cause adverse side effects.
check with your pharmacist or gp before taking a cold remedy if you're taking any other painkillers.
read the manufacturer’s patient information leaflet carefully before taking the medication, and follow the recommended dosage instructions.
the remedies outlined below may also help to relieve your symptoms.
they also act as painkillers (for children, use children’s liquid paracetamol).
you can relieve the symptoms of the cold while the body fights off the  infection by taking over-the-counter medication, such as paracetamol, and  drinking plenty of fluids.
as they become inflamed, they begin to produce more  mucus, resulting in a runny nose and sneezing.
colds can also spread through direct and indirect contact.
a child’s immune system is less well developed compared to an adult’s, so they're more vulnerable to infection.
sinusitis is an infection of the small, air-filled cavities inside the cheekbones and forehead.
those most responsible for colds belong to one of two groups: rhinoviruses coronaviruses because a number of viruses can cause a cold, it's possible to have several  colds, one after the other, as each one is caused by a different virus.
if your child is unwell, talk to your pharmacist about the best option if you  need an otc medication.
back to  top complications sinusitis sinusitis is a fairly common complication of a cold among adults and older  children, occurring in an estimated 0.5-2% of cases.
there's no evidence to support the use of antihistamines or cough syrups in  treating a cold.
alternatively, you can phone nhs
more research is required to determine the recommended dose.^^
if you have high blood pressure  (hypertension), heart problems or glaucoma (a group of eye conditions that  affect vision), check with your gp before using an oral decongestant.
adults have about two to four colds a year, and children have three to  eight.
decongestants (medications designed to reduce nasal congestion) may have  some limited effectiveness against colds.
if  you're taking a type of antidepressant called a monoamine oxidase inhibitor  (maoi), you shouldn't use nasal decongestants.
more than 200 different viruses can cause the common cold, which is why people will become infected again at a later stage.
adding menthol, eucalyptus, camphor, thymol or pine oil to the water may help to clear the passageways in your nose.
ibuprofen and paracetamol can be taken alternately over the course of a day as long as you don't exceed the maximum dose for each.
dr rob hicks, a gp in london, offers his advice.
indirect contact – for example, if you sneeze  onto a door handle and someone else touches the handle a few minutes later,  they may catch the cold virus if they then touch their mouth or nose
whether your  child is a newborn, a toddler or a pre-schooler, this guide is for you.
painkillers paracetamol, ibuprofen or aspirin can help to reduce a fever.
however, children  mustn't be given both ibuprofen and paracetamol.
get plenty of rest: there's no official guidance as to how long a person  should stay off work or out of school.
they work by reducing the  swelling in the passageways of your nose and they may also help to ease  breathing.
oral decongestants can cause a rise in blood pressure and heart rate, leading to a feeling of being more alert.
these tests may include: self care
as with tissues, always dispose of the paper towels after you have  finished using them ^^
sinusitis is an infection of the small, air-filled cavities inside the  cheekbones and forehead.
alternatively, if you touch an object such as a door handle or telephone, the virus may be transferred to the object.
symptoms of otitis media include: severe earache a high temperature (fever) of or above 38°c (100°f) flu-like symptoms, such as vomiting and lethargy (a lack of energy)
as they become inflamed, they begin to produce more mucus, resulting in a runny nose and sneezing.
if these are breathed in by someone else then they may become  infected.
women get more colds than men, possibly because they're more likely to come  into close contact with children.
more than 200 different viruses can cause the common cold, which is why  people will become infected again at a later stage.
however, don't use them for more than five to seven days because overuse can make the symptoms of congestion worse.
this is then followed by other symptoms, including: less common symptoms of a cold include: the symptoms of a cold are usually at their worst during the first two to three days of the infection before they gradually start to improve.
however, long-term use of zinc isn't recommended as it could cause  side effects such as vomiting and diarrhoea.
alternatively, you can phone nhs direct on 0845 4647, for an assessment.
this type of medication may only relieve some people from their cold symptoms.
decongestants (medications designed to reduce nasal congestion) may have some limited effectiveness against colds.
the remedies outlined below may also help to relieve your symptoms.
their symptoms typically last between 10–14 days.^^ back to top colds are caused by viruses.
you must either use one or the other.
however, don't use them for more than  five to seven days because overuse can make the symptoms of congestion worse.
however, higher rates of colds haven't been found in passengers on the london
the steam may help to ease your congestion by loosening mucus and making it  easier to clear by blowing your nose.
it can cause nasal stuffiness, a runny nose, sneezing, a sore throat and a cough.
it's recommended  that children with a cold only eat when they're hungry.
always follow the manufacturer's instructions to ensure that the correct dose is given.
you should: a cold is a viral infection that affects the nose, throat and sinuses.
colds aren't usually serious.
seek medical advice if: why won’t my doctor prescribe antibiotics for my child’s cold?
when to seek medical advice a visit to your gp is usually only necessary if: if you're concerned about your baby or an elderly person, or you have a long-term illness, such as a chest condition, arrange to see your gp.
however, further research is required to  confirm this.
don't give any form of oral decongestant to a child under six years old, as  it may cause adverse side effects.
cold symptoms in a child may include araised temperature (fever).
as there are so many different viruses that can cause the common cold, a  vaccination against the condition hasn't been developed yet.
in most cases, you will be able to treat the symptoms of cold yourself at home by using a number of self-care techniques.
top tips for parents advice and information birth to five provides the latest nhs-accredited information, videos and interactive tools to help you through the parenting process.
also, when decongestants do work, they often only ease symptoms for a short period of time.
so they're thought to work in the same way as gargling salt, but they're often  better tolerated in babies and young children.
however, babies, the elderly and anyone whose immune system is compromised can be at risk of developing more serious complications, such as a bacterial chest infection.
menthol sweets some people find that sucking a menthol sweet can help to relieve the symptom of a sore throat.
however, there isn’t much evidence that certain otc medications are effective.
most colds get better on their own without treatment.
if you're taking a type of antidepressant called a monoamine oxidase inhibitor (maoi), you shouldn't use nasal decongestants.
colds, however, are caused by viruses, which don’t respond to antibiotics.
as almost all  cases of cold are caused by a viral infection, antibiotics won't have any  benefit, and may cause unpleasant side effects, such as nausea and diarrhoea.
aspirin should also not be taken by children who are  under 16 years old or by women who are breastfeeding.
in most cases, you will know when you have a cold from the symptoms.
if you're pregnant, paracetamol – not ibuprofen – should  be used for the short-term relief of mild to moderate pain and fever.
however, decongestants are a safe and rarely cause serious side effects.
additional treatment is usually only required if your child has repeated episodes of otitis media.
nasal decongestants shouldn't be used for more than five to seven days  because using them for longer can actually make your congestion worse.
when should i take my child to the doctor?
the viruses that cause a cold attack the lining of the nose and throat,  inflaming these areas.
usually it's a self-limiting infection – this means it gets better by itself without the need for treatment.
in these circumstances your gp may carry out tests to make sure that your  symptoms aren't being caused by another type of infection that may be more  serious, such aspneumonia (a bacterial infection of the lungs) or glandular  fever (a viral infection caused by the epstein-barr virus).
gargling gargling with salt water can sometimes help to relieve the symptoms of a  sore throat and nasal congestion.
dr rob hicks, a gp in london, offers his advice.
oral decongestants may interact with some antidepressants and beta-blockers.
it occurs in an estimated 20%  of cases.
oral decongestants can cause a rise in blood pressure and heart rate,  leading to a feeling of being more alert.
introduction a cold is a mild viral infection of the nose, throat, sinuses and upper  airways.
always follow the  manufacturer’s instructions carefully.
how is a cold spread?
many children will lose their appetite when they have a cold.
they are available as nose drops or sprays.
a cold is a mild viral infection of the nose, throat, sinuses and upper airways.
as almost all cases of cold are caused by a viral infection, antibiotics won't have any benefit, and may cause unpleasant side effects, such as nausea and diarrhoea.
if you're concerned about your baby or an elderly person, or you  have a long-term illness, such as a chest condition, arrange to see your gp.
decongestants decongestants can be taken by mouth (oral decongestants) or they can be taken as a spray in your nose (nasal decongestants).
read the treating colds section for more information.
back to top nhs direct wales links otitis media sinusitis flu, seasonal external links birth to five^^ back to top
over-the-counter cold medications in england, over-the-counter (otc) cold medicines are probably the most widely used type of medication.
some loss of hearing approximately 80% of cases of otitis media will resolve themselves without  treatment, usually within three days.
however, this  is perfectly normal and it should only last for a few days.
however, babies, the elderly and anyone whose  immune system is compromised can be at risk of developing more serious  complications, such as a bacterial chest infection.
if a small child or baby has a temperature let them wear  just a nappy or underwear advice and information birth to five provides the latest nhs-accredited information, videos  and interactive tools to help you through the parenting process.
read the manufacturer’s patient  information leaflet carefully before taking the medication, and follow the  recommended dosage instructions.
paracetamol, ibuprofen and aspirin are also included in some otc cold medicines with other ingredients.
nasal saline drops contain salt water
apply the rub to your child’s chest and back.
if you're taking either of these medicines, check with your gp or pharmacist before taking oral decongestants.
while adults usually have two to four colds a year, children can catch as many as seven to 10.
you must either use one or the  other.
alternatively, if you touch an object such as a door  handle or telephone, the virus may be transferred to the object.
so most people will be contagious for around two weeks.
therefore, if you take otc  decongestants at bedtime, you may have problems sleeping at night.
colds can be spread in several ways.