it reduces plaque and gingivitis, when  used for 30 seconds twice a day.
eighteen x-rays make up the full mouth series necessary  for diagnosis.
the gum  line can be sculpted to improve uneven or excess gums and to cover exposed  roots as gums recede.
brushing guidelines.
back to top the dental practitioner typically performs a number of procedures to determine a diagnosis of periodontal disease.
feb 6;299(5):525-31.back to top amaliya , timmerman mf, abbas f, loos bg, van der weijden ga, van winkelhoff aj, et al.
these devices  are expensive but may improve flossing compliance.
studies  are mixed as to its effectiveness for preventing or reducing periodontal  disease.
specific antibiotics used in  periodontal disease include: tetracycline antibiotics -- which include tetracycline hydrochloride,  doxycycline, and minocycline -- are the primary drugs used.
repeat with each tooth,  including the outside of the back teeth.
direct delivery of antibiotics to the gums topical application of antibiotics to the gum surface does not affect the  entire body like oral antibiotics do, and they are preferred whenever possible.
br dent j. 2005 aug 27;199(4):213-7, discussion 210.back to top
this will alert the dentist to early bone loss and other disorders of the oral cavity.
still, about 30% of people are genetically susceptible to periodontal disease.
special toothpicks such as stim-u-dent may be effective for wide spaces  between teeth but should never replace flossing.
the ada also recommends that patients who take oral  bisphosphonate drugs should discuss with their dentists any potential risks  from dental procedures (such as extractions and implants) that involve the  jawbone.
the dental professional will scrape the plaque from above and below the  gum line (called scaling).
the probe is held along the length of the tooth with the tip placed in the  pocket.
home care, of course, must be continued.
therefore, eating sugars and other foods that increase the acidity in the mouth increase bacterial counts.
after noting the general state of oral hygiene, the dentist may ask about the quality of home dental care.
preventing bacterial contamination is very important.
click the icon to see an  image of recessed gums.
amelogenin is a derivative of a major protein in the structure (the matrix) of enamel that helps stimulate gum tissue growth.
people with the disease rarely  experience pain and may not be aware of the problem.
if discomfort is severe, stronger analgesics may be prescribed.
it is still not clear if periodontal disease actually causes heart disease.
periodontal disease often occurs in members of the same family.
periodontitis is a silent disease.
a gel containing amelogenin (emdogain) is applied during surgery  and forms a coat over the roots of the teeth.
gingival overgrowth can be a side effect of nearly 20 different drugs, most commonly phenytoin (dilantin), cyclosporine (sandimmune), and a short-acting form of the calcium channel blocker nifedipine (procardia).
these may be done by the dental hygienist, the  periodontist, or the general dentist.
your dentist or oral surgeon may need to take special  precautions when performing dental surgery.
there have been a few reports of osteonecrosis (bone decay) of the jaw in  patients who take oral bisphosphonate drugs such as alendronate (fosamax).
avoid highly abrasive toothpastes, especially for individuals whose gums have receded.
diabetes is not only a risk factor for periodontal disease -- periodontal disease itself can worsen diabetes and make it more difficult to control blood sugar.
the periodontist may also contour the remaining bone and attempt to  regenerate lost bone and gingival attachment through bone grafts and guided  tissue regeneration or the use of enamel matrix protein derivatives.
increasing water intake is particularly important as one ages, when less saliva is produced.
they not only have  anti-bacterial actions but also reduce inflammation and help block collagenase,  the protein that destroys connective tissue and bone, even in low doses.
oral environment lack of oral hygiene.
women should have a periodontal examination before becoming pregnant or as  soon as possible thereafter.
a spray of water is used with ultrasound to prevent overheating and to  flush out the debris that is dislodged.
this material then stimulates new bone growth in the area.
debris and bacteria can cause a bad taste in the mouth  and persistent bad breath.
tooth mobility is determined by pushing each  tooth between two instrument handles and observing any movement.
some quinolone antibiotics (moxifloxacin, ciprofloxacin) may specifically  targeta. actinomycetemcomitans, an important bacteria in periodontal  disease.
the american dental association recommends (in addition to daily brushing and flossing)antimicrobial mouthwash to help prevent and reduce plaque and gingivitis, andfluoride mouthwashes to help provide additional protection against tooth decay.
(however, good hygiene is probably not  enough to prevent periodontal disease in many people.
in fact, for patients in their 20s, periodontal disease is most likely to occur around the wisdom teeth.
as the destructive factors cause the breakdown of bone and connective tissue, teeth lose their anchor.
hormonal changes during pregnancy can aggravate existing gingivitis, which typically worsens around the second month and reaches a peak in the eighth month.
the most important factor in buying  any toothbrush, electric or manual, is to choose one with a soft head.
self-injury in psychologically disturbed patients hereditary gingival fibromatosis.
your dentist or oral surgeon may need to take special precautions when performing dental surgery.
the patient may alternate between them.
herpes-related gingivitis.
however, if a regular toothbrush works, it isn't necessary to buy an expensive electric one.
even a good toothpaste, however, cannot be delivered past 3 mm below the gum line, where periodontitis develops.
it should be  noted that the gums of smokers with periodontal disease tend to bleed less than  nonsmokers.
much evidence exists on the link between type 1 and 2  diabetes and periodontal disease.
such areas  create spaces for the collection of food debris, plaque, and calculus.
other evidence suggests that the periodontal disease bacteria themselves -- particularlyp. gingivalis, t. denticola, t. forsythia , andstreptococci species -- may be associated with thicker carotid arteries (a predictor of heart attack and stroke), regardless of c-reactive protein levels.
post-surgery discomfort is usually  managed easily with over-the-counter medications such as ibuprofen.
osteoporosis (loss of bone density) has been associated with periodontal disease in postmenopausal women.
it is characterized by tender, red, swollen gums that bleed easily and may be responsible for bad breath (halitosis) in some cases.
severe pain is characteristic, along with odor, spontaneous  bleeding, ulcers, and swollen, bright red gums.
however, a  persistent immune response to chronic infections in the mouth is believed to  play a major role in gum destruction.
some  research indicates that this inflammatory response can also cause injury in the  arteries supplying blood to the heart.
treatment helps nonsmokers more than smokers, particularly when pockets are deep and persistent.
periodontal disease develops usually because of two events in the oral cavity: an increase in bacteria quantity and a change in balance of bacterial types from harmless to disease-causing bacteria.
evidence indicates that periodontal disease is an autoimmune disorder , in which immune factors in the body attack the person's own cells and tissue -- in this case, those in the gum.
kolahi j, soolari a. rinsing with chlorhexidine gluconate solution after brushing and flossing teeth: a systematic review of effectiveness.
prescription nsaids include naproxen (naprosyn, anaprox), diclofenac  (voltaren), tolmetin (tolectin), ketoprofen (orudis, oruvail), indomethacin  (indocin).
for the inside surfaces of the front teeth, gently use the tip of the  brush in an up-and-down stroke.
toothpastes are a combination of abrasives, binders, colors, detergents,  flavors, fluoride, humectants, preservatives, and artificial sweeteners.
smoking and nicotine smoking is the single major preventable risk factor for periodontal  disease.
some research suggests that periodontal disease may even play some causal role.
evidence indicates, however, that it does not contribute any  additional benefits beyond simple scaling and planing.
research indicates that bacteria from gum disease and tooth decay may trigger the same factors in the immune system, which can then cause premature dilation and contractions.
multiple blisters may form across the mucus membranes in the mouth  and gums, followed by ulcers.
gum tissue is replaced into positions to minimize pocket depth.
chronic periodontitis (also referred to as adult periodontitis)
x-rays are taken to show any loss of bone structure supporting the teeth.
the  average cost for a single implant is high, however, and one implant requires 5  - 7 months for completion.
it is also not clear if treating gum disease can reduce the risks of heart  disease and improve health outcomes for patients with periodontal disease and  vascular heart problems.
poorly contoured restorations  (fillings or crowns) that provide traps for debris and plaque can also  contribute to its formation.
eat sugar-containing foods with meals, ideally followed by brushing.
maternal oral health in pregnancy.
oral antibiotics at standard doses antibiotics given orally and at standard doses have some limited  applications for periodontal disease.
herpes virus is a common cause of  gingivitis in children and has become increasingly common in adults.
in excess, however, they  can cause inflammation and severe damage.
lack of oral hygiene encourages bacterial  buildup and plaque formation.
vitamin c deficiencies vitamin c helps the body repair and maintain connective tissue, and its  antioxidant effects are important in the presence of tissue-destroying oxidants  in periodontal disease.
the bacteria that cause periodontal disease thrive in acidic environments.
bothp. gingivalis and a.  actinomycetemcomitans, along with multiple deep pockets in the gum, are  associated with resistance to standard treatments for gum disease.
long-term use of nsaids can cause stomach problems, such as ulcers and  bleeding, and possible heart problems.
back to top references amaliya , timmerman mf, abbas f, loos bg, van der weijden ga, van  winkelhoff aj, et al.
this antibacterial activity may help control  plaque.
complications uncontrolled periodontal disease is associated with: periodontal disease refers to a group of problems that arise in the sulcus, the gap between the gum and the tooth.
gingival curettage gingival curettage removes the soft tissue lining of the periodontal  pockets in order to completely eliminate bacteria and diseased tissue.
the bacteria that cause periodontal disease thrive  in acidic environments.
poorly contoured restorations (fillings or crowns) that provide traps for debris and plaque can also contribute to its formation.
j am dent assoc. 2008
adolescents and young adults with wisdom teeth should have a dentist check for signs of periodontal disease.
supplementation with fluoride tablets or drops may be recommended for children 6 months or older who drink unfluoridated water or who are at risk for dental problems.
because women with diabetes are at higher risk for periodontal disease, it is especially important that they see a dentist early in pregnancy.
drinking at least 7 glasses of water a day helps reduce inflammation in the mouth by producing more saliva.
none are as effective as listerine or chlorhexidine, but they may  still have some value for people who cannot tolerate the other mouthwashes.
still, about 30% of people are  genetically susceptible to periodontal disease.
however, it is still not clear whether periodontal disease is a  risk factor for stroke or a marker that reflects various risk factors common to  both conditions.
in such cases, the restoration should be redone.
hormone-influenced gingivitis appears in some adolescents, in some  pregnant women, and is occasionally a side effect of birth control medication.
to floss correctly, the following steps may be helpful: break off about 18 inches of floss and wind most of it around the middle  finger of one hand and the rest around the other middle finger.
java project on periodontal diseases: the relationship  between vitamin c and the severity of periodontitis.
periodontal disease can also be present even in patients with wisdom teeth who do not have any symptoms.
if brushing after each meal is not possible, rinsing the mouth with water after eating can reduce bacteria by 30%.
in a study of  people over 70 years old, 86% had at least moderate periodontitis, and over a  quarter of them had lost their teeth.
whether treatment will help reduce other health risks, including heart attack and stroke, is unknown.
regular visits to a dentist are extremely important, especially for high-risk individuals.)
progesterone dilates blood  vessels causing inflammation, and blocks the repair of collagen, the structural  protein that supports the gums.
since fruit juices can also cause tooth  erosion in children, parents should emphasize milk and water.
other factors also put  individuals at higher risk.
practice good dental hygiene consistent good dental hygiene can help prevent gingivitis and periodontitis.
the inflammation never recedes,  but halitosis and acute episodes can be managed by conventional cleaning  treatments.
there is some debate about whether this procedure is any more effective in  preventing disease progression than non-surgical therapies, such as low-dose  doxycycline, short-term antibiotics, or antibiotic gels.
because fluoride prevents decay, back molars, which keep the teeth in place, are spared, and are thus less vulnerable to bacteria.
some research also indicates that regular cannabis (marijuana) smoking also increases the risk of periodontal disease.
controlling both type 1 and 2 diabetes may  help reduce periodontal problems.
the dental professional usually  detects calculus below the gum by careful probing with an instrument.
they are being investigated in oral forms as well as in topical forms that are  applied directly to the gum.
soft  bristles get into crevices easier and do not irritate the gums, thereby  reducing the risk of exposing teeth below the gum line compared to hard brushes.
the doses used in this treatment, however, are too low to have any  effect on bacteria, so this risk may be very low.
physical examination inspection of the gum area.
it is the general dentist's responsibility to identify periodontal disease and inform the patient.
dietary changes it is important to reduce both the quantity and, in particular, the frequency of sugar intake.
studies have found that children of parents with periodontitis are 12 times more likely to have the bacteria thought to be responsible for causing plaque and, eventually, periodontal disease.
lamster ib, lalla e, borgnakke ws, taylor gw.
infection-fighting white blood  cells become trapped and die.
bad breath a much less severe but nevertheless distressing problem caused by  periodontal disease is bad breath, although coatings on the tongue may  contribute more to bad breath than periodontal disease.
gum grafting techniques can also be very useful for improving the looks of the gum as well as adding support to the teeth.
common dental infections in the primary care setting.
subantimicrobial dose doxycycline (sdd) is a term used for a treatment that uses very low doses (20 mg) of doxycycline (periostat).
2008 oct;139(10):1389-97.
other  procedures are available to improve the look of the gums and teeth.
back to top diagnosis the dental practitioner typically performs a number of procedures to  determine a diagnosis of periodontal disease.
as a precaution, the american dental association (ada) recommends that  patients who are prescribed or are to receive bisphosphonate drugs get a  thorough dental exam before beginning drug therapy, or as soon as possible  after beginning therapy.
it usually  occurs as a result of an allergic reaction or of skin diseases such as lichen  planus, benign mucous membrane pemphigoid, bullous pemphigoid, and pemphigus  vulgaris.
anatomical tooth abnormalities.
p. gingivalis produces enzymes, such as one called arginine-specific cysteine  proteinase, that may disrupt the immune system and lead to subsequent  periodontal connective tissue destruction.
post-surgery discomfort is usually managed easily with over-the-counter medications such as ibuprofen.
p.  gingivalis may double the risk for serious gum disease.
polishing is the finishing procedure.
periodontitis can also be associated with a number of systemic diseases, including type 1 diabetes, down syndrome, aids, and several rare disorders of white blood cells.
this is a tiny narrow brush that can be worked in  between the natural teeth and around the attached false tooth or teeth.
br dent j. 2005 aug 27;199(4):213-7, discussion 210.
the american dental association recommends (in addition  to daily brushing and flossing)antimicrobial mouthwash to help prevent  and reduce plaque and gingivitis, andfluoride mouthwashes to help  provide additional protection against tooth decay.
these drugs are used not only for relieving pain in periodontal disease but  also for slowing the disease process.
this involves bone grafting: enamel matrix protein derivative.
a systematic review and meta-analyses on c-reactive protein in relation to periodontitis.
people with tuberculosis, syphilis, wegener's granulomatosis, amyloidosis, and many genetic disorders are also at higher risk for periodontitis.
this material has a rock-like consistency and grabs onto the tooth surface.
electric toothbrushes with heads that move back and forth up to thousands of times a minute remove significantly more plaque than ordinary brushes.
the hygienist or dentist may use an ultrasonic instrument for removal of  the more accessible calculus.
desquamative gingivitis.
regular visits to a  dentist are extremely important, especially for high-risk individuals.)
according to the american dental association, antimicrobial mouthwashes may provide additional oral health benefits for preventing and reducing gingivitis and plaque.
feb 6;299(5):525-31.
the  relationship of periodontal disease to diseases and disorders at distant sites:  communication to health care professionals and patients.
some bacteria are related to gingivitis, but not plaque development.
2008 apr;35(4):277-90.
in general, studies have reported no differences between electric and  manual toothbrushes in their ability to remove plaque.
if the condition is localized and treated, the outlook is positive.
an inflammatory response may be the common element.
periodontists report that they are achieving great success with tooth implants in patients who have lost teeth due to periodontal disease.
any pregnancy-related gingivitis usually resolves within a few months of delivery.
its severest form, known as necrotizing stomatitis, can be  diagnostic for aids.
a full mouth series of x-rays is advised every 2 - 3 years.
2007  sep;78(9):1751-8.
drug-induced gingivitis gingival overgrowth can be a side effect of nearly 20 different drugs, most  commonly phenytoin (dilantin), cyclosporine (sandimmune), and a short-acting  form of the calcium channel blocker nifedipine (procardia).
abnormal tooth structure can increase the risk.
even more high-tech brushes are now available that use sound waves to  remove plaque.
effect on pregnancy many studies strongly indicate that bacterial infections that cause  moderate-to-severe periodontal disease in pregnant women can increase the risk  for premature delivery and low birth weight infants.
acute coronary  syndrome, high blood pressure (hypertension), and high cholesterol have also  been associated with periodontal disease.
doctors are still not sure if treating periodontal disease can  improve birth outcomes.
it leaves a burning sensation in the mouth  that most people better tolerate after a few days of use.
autoimmune diseases.
it is also not clear if treating gum disease can reduce the risks of heart disease and improve health outcomes for patients with periodontal disease and vascular heart problems.
intimate partners and spouses of people with periodontal disease may also be at risk.
they include: the ultimate outcome of uncontrolled periodontal disease is tooth loss.
back to top www.nidcr.nih.gov -- national institute of dental and craniofacial research www.perio.org -- american academy of periodontology www.ada.org -- american dental association www.aaoms.org -- american association of oral and maxillofacial surgeons back to top references amaliya , timmerman mf, abbas f, loos bg, van der weijden ga, van  winkelhoff aj, et al.
is nearly always chronic, but an acute form infrequently occurs.
this is necessary to prevent the possibility of bacterial endocarditis, which can be life threatening.
taylor gw, borgnakke ws.
periodontal disease is the main cause of alveolar bone loss.
it is characterized by: stress, poor diet, smoking, and viral infections are predisposing factors for this acute necrotizing periodontal disease.
researchers have also observed some of the organisms seen in periodontal  disease in young children without signs of gum problems.
abnormal tooth structure can  increase the risk.
back to top causes periodontal disease is marked by bacterial overgrowth.
wisdom teeth, also called third molars, can be a  major breeding ground for the bacteria that cause periodontal disease.
other tetracyclines are being  developed that inhibit mmps but have no antibiotic properties, which would,  theoretically, avoid possible long-term problems with antibiotic resistance.
controlling both type 1 and 2 diabetes may help reduce periodontal problems.
(long-term use of oral antibiotics is generally not  advised due to the risks of bacterial resistance.)
severe pain is characteristic, along with odor, spontaneous bleeding, ulcers, and swollen, bright red gums.
scaling, polishing, and sometimes curettage are used to manage periodontal disease.
in spite of this, nearly two-thirds of people do not floss.
a gel containing amelogenin (emdogain) is applied during surgery and forms a coat over the roots of the teeth.
increasing  water intake is particularly important as one ages, when less saliva is  produced.
in fact, several 12-month  studies report significant improvements in tooth attachment and pocket depth  with no increased incidence of side effects.
some macrolide antibiotics (roxithromycin) may have actions against  inflammation and growth involved in periodontal disease.
wisdom teeth, also called third molars, can be a major breeding ground for the bacteria that cause periodontal disease.
click the icon to see  an image of emphysema.
fortunately, when smokers quit, their periodontal health gradually recovers to a state comparable to that of nonsmokers.
a number of nsaids are being investigated for their benefits in reducing gingivitis and slowing progression of periodontal disease.
the inflammation never recedes, but halitosis and acute episodes can be managed by conventional cleaning treatments.
when it reaches the gum line, the floss should be curved around each tooth  and slid gently back and forth against the gum.
the diseased root surfaces are cleaned and curetted (scraped) to remove  deposits.
the dentist will first take a medical history to reveal any past or present  periodontal problems, any underlying diseases that might be contributing to the  problem, and any medications the patient is taking.
other evidence suggests that the periodontal disease bacteria themselves --  particularlyp. gingivalis, t. denticola, t. forsythia , andstreptococci species -- may be associated with thicker carotid  arteries (a predictor of heart attack and stroke), regardless of c-reactive  protein levels.
in any case, be sure to inform your dentist if you are taking a  bisphosphonate drug.
pain is usually not a symptom, which partly explains why the disease may  become advanced before treatment is sought and why some patients avoid  treatment even after periodontitis is diagnosed.
specific immune factors are released that cause inflammation and damage that eventually destroys the support structures and bone and can lead to tooth loss.
saliva is important for  diluting the toxins created by plaque.
antibacterial sugar substitutes (xylitol), and detergents (delmopinol) mouthwashes.
these harmful bacteria increase in mass and thickness until they form a film calledplaque.
regular and effective tooth brushing and mouth washing, however, are effective only above and slightly below the gum line.
psr is a painless procedure used to measure and determine the severity of periodontal disease: these measurements help determine the condition of the connective tissue and amount of gingival overgrowth or recession.
in rare genetic cases,  children and adolescents are subject to destructive forms of the disease.
still, more research is needed to determine a definitive association between these diseases.
pregnancy does not cause gum disease, and simple  preventive oral hygiene can help maintain healthy gums.
the dental hygienist or practitioner generally uses both ultrasonic and manual instruments to remove calculus.
deepening periodontal pockets between the gums and bone  can become blocked by tartar or food particles.
may begin in adolescence as a slowly progressing disease that becomes clinically significant in the mid-30s and continues throughout life.
the dentist inspects the color and shape of gingival tissue on the cheek (buccal) side and the tongue (lingual) side of every tooth and compares these qualities to the healthy ideal.
studies report that it is safe and  may significantly reduce the effects of periodontal disease.
periostat is taken twice a  day for months.
bleeding of the gums, even during brushing, is a sign  of inflammation and the major marker of periodontal disease.
it reduces plaque by 55% and gingivitis by 30 -  45%.
periodontal disease is the main cause of alveolar bone  loss.
the use of dental floss, either waxed or unwaxed, is  critical in cleaning between the teeth where the toothbrush bristles cannot  reach.
this probe-like device vibrates at a frequency  range higher than is audible to the human ear.
some dentists recommend a fluoride gel for adult patients who are still at  risk for tooth decay or sensitivity, but extra fluoride is generally not  necessary for adults who use fluoride toothpaste.
topical application and long-term  use of these antibiotics are showing particular promise.
thomson wm, poulton r, broadbent jm, moffitt te, caspi a, beck jd, et al.
redness, puffiness, and bleeding upon probing indicate inflammation.
a rare genetic disease associated with  both gum overgrowth and hairiness.
studies suggest that this inflammatory response may have damaging effects  not only in the gums but also in organs throughout the body, including the  heart.
symptoms of osteonecrosis of the jaw  include loose teeth, exposed jawbone, pain or swelling in the jaw, gum  infections, and poor healing of the gums.
saliva is important for diluting the toxins created by plaque.
long-term use of antibiotics is advised for the control of juvenile  periodontitis, refractory periodontitis, rapidly progressing periodontitis, and  prepubertal periodontitis.
lack of oral hygiene.
in rare genetic cases, children and adolescents are subject to destructive forms of the disease.
children and adolescents.
it uses a rubber cup with an  abrasive paste to remove plaque and stains on the crown portion of the tooth.
poorly contoured restorations.
the following are some recommendations for brushing:
evidence indicates, however, that it does not contribute any additional benefits beyond simple scaling and planing.
eating citrus fruits high in vitamin c (such as grapefruit) may be helpful for patients with periodontitis.
boggess ka; society for maternal-fetal medicine publications committee.
fortunately, when smokers quit, their periodontal health gradually recovers to  a state comparable to that of nonsmokers.
in fact, some research suggests it is an entirely different disease.
not only do they become  breeding grounds for bacteria, but the worn bristles are less effective at  removing plaque.
once periodontal disease  develops, more intensive treatments are needed.
vitamin c levels are especially depleted in  smokers.
a mouthwash may also be used.
redness,  puffiness, and bleeding upon probing indicate inflammation.
however, a persistent immune response to chronic infections in the mouth is believed to play a major role in gum destruction.
click the icon to see an image  of a canker sore.
genetics, intimacy, hygiene, or a mixture of factors may be responsible.
the objective of a good toothpaste is to reduce the development of plaque and eliminate periodontal-causing microorganisms without destroying the organisms that are important for a healthy mouth.
psr is a painless  procedure used to measure and determine the severity of periodontal disease: the dentist uses a mirror and a periodontal probe, a fine instrument  calibrated in millimeters (mm), which is used to measure pocket depth.
specific antibiotics used in periodontal disease include: topical application of antibiotics to the gum surface does not affect the entire body like oral antibiotics do, and they are preferred whenever possible.
back to top amaliya , timmerman mf, abbas f, loos bg, van der weijden ga, van winkelhoff aj, et al.
all brands  should show ada approval.
nsaids block inflammatory enzymes  triggered by cytokines, which are important immune factors in periodontal  disease.
gum inflammation and ulcers are common, and not all people with these problems develop periodontal disease.
the following are some recommendations for  brushing: use a soft-bristled brush that fits the size and shape of your mouth.
this is an over-reaction of the immune system that causes injury to tissues in the body.
even more high-tech brushes are now available that use sound waves to remove plaque.
some studies suggest that periodontal treatment in people with type 2 diabetes helps improve blood sugar levels.
autoimmune conditions (crohn's disease, multiple sclerosis, rheumatoid arthritis, lupus erythematosus, crest syndrome) have been associated with a higher incidence of periodontal disease.
another handy device for cleaning under bridges is a proxabrush, which is  an interdental cleaner.
high levels of triglycerides (which are common in type 2 diabetes) also appear to impair periodontal health.
a vast assortment of brushes of varying sizes and  shapes are available, and each manufacturer makes its claim for the benefits of  a particular brush.
a much less severe but nevertheless distressing problem caused by periodontal disease is bad breath, although coatings on the tongue may contribute more to bad breath than periodontal disease.
teeth loosen, sometimes  causing a change in the way the upper and lower teeth fit together when biting  down or how partial dentures fit.
these measurements help determine the condition of the connective tissue  and amount of gingival overgrowth or recession.
increasingly, dental professionals are finding  that local application of antibiotics is more effective than periodontal  surgery alone.
bone loss is associated with both  periodontal disease and osteoporosis.
previously performed only by periodontists,  this procedure is now encouraged as part of a regular dental examination.
a  prescription from the child's pediatrician or dentist is required.
hold the floss between the thumbs and forefingers and gently guide and rub  it back and forth between the teeth.
for individuals with average dexterity, a four- or five-rowed, soft,  nylon-bristled toothbrush is sufficient.
aug  27;199(4):213-7, discussion 210.
if the gum  formation between teeth is blunt and not pointed, acute necrotizing periodontal  disease may be indicated.
after the cleaning procedure, the dentist will check the pocket depths  around the teeth after the cleaning process has been completed.
people with severe and widespread aggressive periodontitis are at high risk for tooth loss.
once periodontal disease develops, more intensive treatments are needed.
during menopause, some women may also develop a rare condition called menopausal gingivostomatitis, in which the gums are dry, shiny, and bleed easily.
there have been a few reports of osteonecrosis (bone decay) of the jaw in patients who take oral bisphosphonate drugs such as alendronate (fosamax).
click the icon to see an image of emphysema.
some patients  experience sensitivity to hot or cold temperatures from exposed roots.
amelogenin is a derivative of a  major protein in the structure (the matrix) of enamel that helps stimulate gum  tissue growth.
pregnancy does not cause gum disease, and simple preventive oral hygiene can help maintain healthy gums.
the more severe the periodontitis, the greater the risk for heart problems.
research indicates that bacteria  from gum disease and tooth decay may trigger the same factors in the immune  system, which can then cause premature dilation and contractions.
healthy and disease-causing bacteria can generally be grouped into two categories: following are some of the bacteria most implicated in periodontal disease and bone loss: some bacteria are related to gingivitis, but not plaque development.
these may be done by the dental hygienist, the periodontist, or the general dentist.
this is necessary to prevent the possibility of bacterial  endocarditis, which can be life threatening.
in addition to bleeding, the gums in the front of the mouth are a yellowish-gray color, and bone thrusts out.
diabetes causes changes in blood vessels, and high levels of specific inflammatory chemicals such as interleukins, that significantly increase the chances of periodontal disease.
periodontal  disease can also be present even in patients with wisdom teeth who do not have  any symptoms.
these problems can be managed with topical fluoride treatments or, in severe cases, with dental restoration.
in addition, white blood cells produced by the immune response to bacteria  also release a family of enzymes called matrix metalloproteinases (mmps), which  break down connective tissue.
periodontal disease: associations with diabetes,  glycemic control and complications.
nsaids block inflammatory enzymes triggered by cytokines, which are important immune factors in periodontal disease.
viral causes certain herpes viruses (herpes simplex and varicella-zoster virus, the  cause of chickenpox and shingles) are known causes of gingivitis.
correct tooth brushing, mouth cleansing, and flossing should be everyone's defense against periodontal disease.
toothbrushes should be replaced every 1 - 3 months.
smoothing the surface helps remove bacteria that collect there (root planing)  and also helps the gums reattach.
they are typically given for an acute infection.
(listerine pocketpaks, which are strips that dissolve on  the tongue, have no proven effects on plague and gingivitis.)
the most important component leading to the disease process, however, is the body's persistent immune response to the bacterial plaque.
2008 apr;14(3):191-203.
these drugs are used not only for relieving pain in periodontal disease but also for slowing the disease process.
all herpes viruses go through an active  phase followed by a latent phase and possibly reactivation.
the impact of a low-frequency chlorhexidine rinsing schedule on the subgingival microbiota (the teeth clinical trial).j periodontol.
surgical procedures vary depending on the individual diagnosis and needs of the patient.
producing saliva and drinking water.
to floss correctly, the following steps may be helpful: here are some tips in choosing the right floss or flossing device:
in addition, these  substances appear to offer no benefits against gum disease.
in some cases of severe bone loss, the surgeon may  attempt to encourage regrowth and restoration of bone tissue that has been lost  through the disease process.
whether treatment will help reduce other health  risks, including heart attack and stroke, is unknown.
because  periodontal disease can increase the risk for low-weight infants and cause  other complications, it is important for pregnant women to see a dentist.
bad odor blunted gum tissue (tissue is normally cone-shaped) stress, poor diet, smoking, and viral infections are predisposing factors  for this acute necrotizing periodontal disease.
for children with diabetes, good oral hygiene  should begin at a young age.
because women with diabetes are at higher risk for  periodontal disease, it is especially important that they see a dentist early  in pregnancy.
family factors periodontal disease often occurs in members of the same family.
all brands should show ada approval.
avoid  highly abrasive toothpastes, especially for individuals whose gums have receded.
this includes proper use of the toothbrush, paste, mouth rinses, floss, floss  threaders, and proxabrushes.
toothpastes are a combination of abrasives, binders, colors, detergents, flavors, fluoride, humectants, preservatives, and artificial sweeteners.
(the risk is highest for patients with extensive gum disease, bleeding from every tooth.)
the basic procedure is known as open flap  curettage.
in one study,  for example, people with periodontal disease who were inconsistent in caring  for their gums after treatment had nearly six times the risk for tooth loss as  those who were very vigilant.
treatment is very effective if initiated early in the course of gingivitis.
(long-term use of oral antibiotics is generally not advised due to the risks of bacterial resistance.)
pus forms, and an abscess develops.
they may even prove to be an alternative to surgery.
over half of american adults have gingivitis surrounding 3 - 4 teeth, and 30% have significant periodontal disease surrounding 3 - 4 teeth.
other tetracyclines are being developed that inhibit mmps but have no antibiotic properties, which would, theoretically, avoid possible long-term problems with antibiotic resistance.
women may also experience abnormal tastes and sensations (such as  salty, spicy, acidic, and burning) in the mouth.
gum recession and loose teeth.
exposure to secondhand smoke may also be associated with an  increased risk for developing periodontal disease, according to one study.
back to top complications the ultimate outcome of uncontrolled periodontal disease is tooth loss.
dentists now often perform periodontal screening and recording (psr) using  a probe to measure gum pockets.
electric toothbrushes, particularly those with a stationary grip and revolving tufts of bristles, can be advantageous for some people with physical disabilities.
daily dental care correct tooth brushing, mouth cleansing, and flossing should be everyone's  defense against periodontal disease.
here are some tips in choosing the right floss or flossing device: use a floss that does not shred or break.
researchers have found that the bacteriap.  gingivalis may be contagious after exposure to an infected person over a  long period of time.
in some cases of severe bone loss, the surgeon may attempt to encourage regrowth and restoration of bone tissue that has been lost through the disease process.
mobility is a  strong indicator of bone support loss.
dental examinations periodontitis is a silent disease.
studies have  found that children of parents with periodontitis are 12 times more likely to  have the bacteria thought to be responsible for causing plaque and, eventually,  periodontal disease.
disease-related periodontitis.
it is fairly common in middle-aged women.
periodontitis can occur in wisdom teeth that have broken through the gum as well as teeth that are impacted (buried).
following are some of the bacteria most implicated in periodontal disease  and bone loss: actinobacillus actinomycetemcomitans and porphyromonas  gingivalis.
multiple blisters may form across the mucus membranes in the mouth and gums, followed by ulcers.
back to top studies support the effectiveness of active treatment combined with a strict maintenance program for patients with periodontal disease.
immune deficiencies and a genetic link have been shown to be possible factors for all types of aggressive periodontitis.
the average cost for a single implant is high, however, and one implant requires 5 - 7 months for completion.
a specialized piece of fabric is sewn around the tooth to cover the crater  in the bone left after the cleaning.
it appears to work like this: the bacteria that form plaque and tartar release toxins that stimulate the  immune system to overproduce powerful infection-fighting factors called cytokines.
the dental hygienist or practitioner generally uses both  ultrasonic and manual instruments to remove calculus.
in general, studies have reported no differences between electric and manual toothbrushes in their ability to remove plaque.
oral contraceptives.
it is much more difficult to remove than plaque, which is a soft mass.
postsurgery pain and discomfort.
in cases where the individual has a  mitral valve prolapse or history of rheumatic heart disease, pretreatment with  an appropriate antibiotic is required before any dental work, including  cleaning.
oct;139 suppl:19s-24s. nguyen dh, martin jt.
osteoporosis (loss of bone density)  has been associated with periodontal disease in postmenopausal women.
periodontal disease has also been linked to stroke and coronary artery disease (cad).
however, it is still not clear whether periodontal disease is a risk factor for stroke or a marker that reflects various risk factors common to both conditions.
a systematic review and meta-analyses  on c-reactive protein in relation to periodontitis.
oct;139  suppl:19s-24s. nguyen dh, martin jt.
once periodontal disease has been identified, the  goals of treatment are: to arrest and control the progress of the disease to leave the periodontal tissues in an easily maintainable state if possible, to restore the supporting structures, which include bone, gum  tissue, and ligaments treatment phases.
these viruses may cause periodontal disease in different ways, including  release of tissue-destructive cytokines, overgrowth of periodontal bacteria,  suppressing immune factors, and initiation of other disease processes that lead  to cell death.
therefore, eating sugars and other foods that increase  the acidity in the mouth increase bacterial counts.
some studies report that oral contraceptives containing the synthetic progesterone desogestrel (but not dienogest, another common progesterone) increase the risk for periodontal disease.
it involves: there is some debate about whether this procedure is any more effective in preventing disease progression than non-surgical therapies, such as low-dose doxycycline, short-term antibiotics, or antibiotic gels.
heart disease and stroke studies have reported that people who have heart disease have a 1.5 - 4  times increased risk for periodontal disease.
flossing should finish the process.
some people with low tolerance  for the ultrasonic probe may wish to request nitrous oxide.
some patients experience sensitivity to hot or cold temperatures from exposed roots.
it produces a smooth surface, making it temporarily harder for plaque to adhere.
it is often associated with gingivitis and  periodontal disease.
it also binds to tannins, which are in tea, coffee, and red wine,  so it has tendency to stain teeth in people who drink these beverages.
women should have a periodontal examination before becoming pregnant or as soon as possible thereafter.
the more severe the  infection, the greater the risk to the baby.
periodontitis can occur in wisdom teeth that have broken  through the gum as well as teeth that are impacted (buried).
this will alert the dentist to early bone loss and other disorders of  the oral cavity.
the gel itself dissolves after 2 days, leaving the active substance behind.
ordinarily, cytokines are important for healing.
a more advanced technique, called guided tissue regeneration, is used to stimulate bone and gum tissue growth: bone grafting.
after the cleaning procedure, the dentist will check the pocket depths around the teeth after the cleaning process has been completed.
testing tooth movement.
previously performed only by periodontists, this procedure is now encouraged as part of a regular dental examination.
hiv-associated gingivitis has been  reported in 15 - 50% of patients with hiv or aids.
periostat is taken twice a day for months.
subantimicrobial dose doxycycline (periostat).
a vast assortment of brushes of varying sizes and shapes are available, and each manufacturer makes its claim for the benefits of a particular brush.
back to top risk factors more than 75% of american adults have some form of gum disease, but  according to a major survey, only 60% have any significant knowledge about the  problem.
other bacteria associated with periodontal disease are treponema  denticola, t. socranskii, and p. intermedia.
healthy and disease-causing bacteria can generally be grouped into two  categories: the harmless or helpful bacteria are usually known as gram positive  aerobic bacteria.
after noting the general  state of oral hygiene, the dentist may ask about the quality of home dental  care.
there is no risk from short exposure, such as after a fast kiss or when sharing an eating utensil.
children and the elderly suffer the worst oral care, and ethnic minorities follow.
in spite of the wide variety of nonelectric toothbrushes, both in shape and  bristle design, a study of eight brands found no significant differences in  effectiveness among them.
the autoimmune and inflammatory response evidence indicates that periodontal disease is an autoimmune disorder , in which immune factors in the body attack the person's own cells and tissue  -- in this case, those in the gum.
genetics,  intimacy, hygiene, or a mixture of factors may be responsible.
if, on repeated flossing attempts, the floss becomes shredded or cannot be  removed easily from between the teeth, a rough crown or overhanging filling may  be the cause.
ordinary chronic gingivitis affects over 90% of the population.
periodontal infections are linked to fewer than 5% of these species.
low-dose and chemically modified tetracyclines subantimicrobial dose doxycycline (periostat).
when the probe contacts the rock-like calculus,  deposits fracture off the tooth fairly efficiently.
although doxycycline is a tetracycline antibiotic, the doses used are too low to affect bacteria.
de oliveira rr, schwartz-filho ho, novaes ab jr, taba m jr. antimicrobial  photodynamic therapy in the non-surgical treatment of aggressive periodontitis:
listerine is another antimicrobial mouthwash.
a floss threader is an invaluable aid for the person who has bridgework.
gingivitis, in varying degrees, is nearly  a universal finding in children and adolescents.
the relationship between oral health and diabetes mellitus.
long-term use of nsaids can cause stomach problems, such as ulcers and bleeding, and possible heart problems.
a periodontal examination by a general dentist once or twice a year should reveal any incipient or progressive problems.
furthermore, when nicotine combines with oral bacteria, such as p.  gingivalis, the effect produces even greater levels of cytokines and  eventually leads to periodontal connective tissue breakdown.
estrogen deficiency after menopause reduces bone mineral density, which can lead to bone loss.
if brushing after each meal is not possible, rinsing the mouth with water  after eating can reduce bacteria by 30%.
the absorbable membrane may be left in.
chlorhexidine (peridex or periogard) is an antimicrobial mouthwash  available by prescription only.
the dentist will first take a medical history to reveal any past or present periodontal problems, any underlying diseases that might be contributing to the problem, and any medications the patient is taking.
with this condition the outer layer of the gum  tissue desquamates (peels away), exposing an acutely red surface.
when it accumulates to excessive levels, however, plaque sticks to the surfaces of the teeth and adjacent gums and causes cellular injury, with subsequent swelling, redness, and heat.
even before teeth first erupt, babies' gums should be wiped clean  with a bit of gauze bearing a dab of fluoride toothpaste.
(however, good hygiene is probably not enough to prevent periodontal disease in many people.
some dentists question whether it is a chronic, unrelenting condition and instead suggest that it waxes and wanes depending on the response of the immune system.
brushing and flossing teeth: a systematic review of effectiveness.
genetic factors may play the critical role in half the cases of periodontal disease.
in excess, cytokines are harmful to cells and tissue.
the use of dental floss, either waxed or unwaxed, is critical in cleaning between the teeth where the toothbrush bristles cannot reach.
techniques and materials for restoring gum tissue and bone guided tissue regeneration.
researchers have found that the bacteriap. gingivalis may be contagious after exposure to an infected person over a long period of time.
2007 jun;78(6):965-73.
quintessence int. 2006 sep;37(8):605-12.
in any case, periodontal treatment is safe for pregnant women.
peroxide and baking soda.
smoking is the single major preventable risk factor for periodontal disease.
symptoms of periodontal disease symptoms of periodontal disease include red and swollen gums, persistent bad breath, and gum recession and loose teeth.
bone loss is associated with both periodontal disease and osteoporosis.
they usually resolve in 7 - 14 days.
osteoporosis and osteonecrosis.
ingredients contained in toothpastes may include: mouthwashes.
back to top medications antibiotics are often used in combination with surgery, curettage, or alone  to eliminate or prevent disease-causing bacteria after periodontal procedures.
the basic procedure is known as open flap curettage.
gum inflammation and ulcers are common, and not all people with these  problems develop periodontal disease.
click the icon to see an image of  the benefits of vitamin c. click the icon to see an image of the  sources of vitamin c. ethnic, socioeconomic, and geographic factors dental disease is most likely to affect the poor.
obesity, common in people with type 2 diabetes, may also  predispose a person to gum disease.
long-term use of antibiotics is advised for the control of juvenile periodontitis, refractory periodontitis, rapidly progressing periodontitis, and prepubertal periodontitis.
avoid snacks and drinks with sugar (other than  natural sugars found in fruits and vegetables).
in one study, for example, people with periodontal disease who were inconsistent in caring for their gums after treatment had nearly six times the risk for tooth loss as those who were very vigilant.
in healthy mouths, plaque itself actually provides some barrier against outside bacterial invasion.
acute necrotizing periodontal disease is an acute infection in the gums.
other procedures are available to improve the look of the gums and teeth.
eating citrus fruits high in vitamin c (such as grapefruit) may be  helpful for patients with periodontitis.
vitamin c levels are especially depleted in smokers.
several other conditions can also cause gum inflammation, and some have been associated with periodontal disease.
researchers have also observed some of the organisms seen in periodontal disease in young children without signs of gum problems.
lamster ib, depaola dp, oppermann rv, papapanou pn, wilder rs.
the tip of the probe will then touch the point where the connective  tissue attaches to the tooth.
the disease is also uncommon in  teenagers.
(the risk is highest for patients  with extensive gum disease, bleeding from every tooth.)
they are usually accomplished in a series of three to four visits  spaced about a week apart.
all herpes viruses go through an active phase followed by a latent phase and possibly reactivation.
it is either absorbable or nonabsorbable.
look for the american dental association (ada) seal on both electric and regular brushes.
vitamin c helps the body repair and maintain connective tissue, and its antioxidant effects are important in the presence of tissue-destroying oxidants in periodontal disease.
this includes proper use of the toothbrush, paste, mouth rinses, floss, floss threaders, and proxabrushes.
autoimmune conditions (crohn's disease,  multiple sclerosis, rheumatoid arthritis, lupus erythematosus, crest syndrome)  have been associated with a higher incidence of periodontal disease.
java project on periodontal diseases: the relationship between vitamin c and the severity of periodontitis.
as a precaution, the american dental association (ada) recommends that patients who are prescribed or are to receive bisphosphonate drugs get a thorough dental exam before beginning drug therapy, or as soon as possible after beginning therapy.
they are typically given for an acute  infection.
obesity, common in people with type 2 diabetes, may also predispose a person to gum disease.
once periodontal disease has been identified, the goals of treatment are: treatment phases.
the disease is also uncommon in teenagers.
eighteen x-rays make up the full mouth series necessary for diagnosis.
surgery (open flap curettage) surgery allows access for deep cleaning of the root surface, removal of  diseased tissue, and repositioning and shaping of the bones, gum, and tissues  supporting the teeth.
eat sugar-containing foods with  meals, ideally followed by brushing.
persson gr, yeates j, persson re, hirschi-imfeld r, weibel m, kiyak ha.
if you have periodontal disease, your dentist may refer you to a periodontist, a dentist who specializes in treating this condition.
obstet gynecol. 2008 apr;111(4):976-86.
hormonal changes during pregnancy can aggravate existing  gingivitis, which typically worsens around the second month and reaches a peak  in the eighth month.
research indicates that vitamin c deficiency contributes to periodontal disease.
studies have been mixed, but research is ongoing.
it involves: the periodontal surgeon lifts, or flaps, the gums away from the tooth and  surrounding bone.
the dentist measures the depth of the probe at each point.
(patients might ask their dentist about the gas nitrous oxide, which is helpful for many patients and may reduce the visits to a single one.)
some studies have reported that although surgical treatment reduced pocket depth more than non-surgical therapies for at least a year after the procedure, benefits from surgery do not persist beyond 5 years, except in very deep pockets.
the relationship between oral  health and diabetes mellitus.
inspection of the gum area.
because periodontal disease can increase the risk for low-weight infants and cause other complications, it is important for pregnant women to see a dentist.
during menopause, some women may also develop a rare condition called  menopausal gingivostomatitis, in which the gums are dry, shiny, and bleed  easily.
there are different categories of periodontal disease, including: chronic periodontitis.
acute coronary syndrome, high blood pressure (hypertension), and high cholesterol have also been associated with periodontal disease.
children and the elderly  suffer the worst oral care, and ethnic minorities follow.
however, if a regular  toothbrush works, it isn't necessary to buy an expensive electric one.
exposure to secondhand smoke may also be associated with an increased risk for developing periodontal disease, according to one study.
bacteroides forsythus is also strongly linked to periodontal  disease.
metal salts, such as stannous and zinc, serve mostly as  anti-bacterial substances in toothpastes.
female hormones about three-quarters of periodontal office visits are made by women, even  though women tend to take better care of their teeth than men.
effect on respiratory disease bacteria that reproduce in the mouth can also be carried into the airways  in the throat and lungs, increasing the risks for respiratory diseases and  worsening chronic lung conditions, such as emphysema.
when plaque is allowed to remain in the periodontal area, it transforms into calculus (commonly known as tartar ).
in general, there  is little difference in outcome between absorbable and nonabsorbable  procedures.
the material may be either bone from the same patient or a substance  called decalcified freeze-dried bone allografts (dfdba) which is obtained from  a donor.
a full mouth series of x-rays is advised every 2 - 3  years.
lack of oral hygiene encourages bacterial buildup and plaque formation.
mouthwashes that contain alcohol are dangerous for children and should be  kept away from them.
if an abscess is present, surgery may be required.
click the icon to see an image of plaque and damaged gum tissue.
a periodontal examination  by a general dentist once or twice a year should reveal any incipient or  progressive problems.
some dentists recommend a fluoride gel for adult patients who are still at risk for tooth decay or sensitivity, but extra fluoride is generally not necessary for adults who use fluoride toothpaste.
these viruses may cause periodontal disease in different ways, including release of tissue-destructive cytokines, overgrowth of periodontal bacteria, suppressing immune factors, and initiation of other disease processes that lead to cell death.
however, almost all cases of osteonecrosis of the jaw associated with bisphosphonate drugs occur during or after the use of intravenous bisphosphonates, usually given as part of treatment for bone cancer or other cancers that have spread to the bone.
in fact, several 12-month studies report significant improvements in tooth attachment and pocket depth with no increased incidence of side effects.
patients with heart conditions and periodontal disease may have elevated levels  of c-reactive protein (crp), which indicates inflammation is present.
eberhard j, jerve-storm pm, needleman i, worthington h, jepsen s. full-mouth treatment concepts for chronic periodontitis: a systematic review.
kolahi j, soolari a. rinsing with chlorhexidine gluconate solution after
in  fact, these two actions seem to contribute most to periodontal protection,  rather than their antibacterial properties.
it is made up of the following parts: periodontal diseases are generally divided into two groups: the process starts with bacteria.
paraskevas s, huizinga jd, loos bg.
furthermore, when nicotine combines with oral bacteria, such as p. gingivalis, the effect produces even greater levels of cytokines and eventually leads to periodontal connective tissue breakdown.
the dentist will identify any areas where deep pocketing has occurred, where the health of the gingiva appears compromised, and where there is undue mobility of teeth.
the absorbable fabric may not be as effective as standard grafts if  gum tissue is thin, although newer materials may prove to produce better  results.
during this procedure, the  periodontist takes gum tissue from the palate or another donor source to cover  the exposed root in order to even the gum line and reduce sensitivity.
back to top prevention healthy habits and good oral hygiene are critical in preventing gum  disease.
the dentist will "walk" the probe to six specified points on  each tooth, three on the buccal (cheek) and three on the lingual (tongue)  sides.
smoking, certain types of illnesses (diabetes), older age, and other factors increase the risk for periodontal disease.
if the condition is severe, the dentist may want to refer the patient to a periodontist.
2008 mar 15;77(6):797-802.
staudte h, sigusch bw, glockmann e. grapefruit consumption improves vitamin c status in periodontitis patients.
it is composed of essential  oils and is available over the counter.
this is an  over-reaction of the immune system that causes injury to tissues in the body.
in spite of the wide variety of nonelectric toothbrushes, both in shape and bristle design, a study of eight brands found no significant differences in effectiveness among them.
there is some concern that such long-term use may pose a risk for the development of antibiotic-resistant bacteria or other, still unknown, adverse effects.
most commercial toothpastes contain fluoride, which both  strengthens tooth enamel against decay and enhances remineralization of the  enamel.
stannous fluoride gel toothpastes do  not reduce plaque, however, even though they have some effect against the  bacteria that cause it, but slightly reduce gingivitis.
toothpastes with these ingredients claim to have  a whitening action, but while they may help remove stains there is little  evidence they whiten the actual color of the teeth.
other herpes viruses (cytomegalovirus and epstein-barr) may also play a role in the onset or progression of some types of periodontal disease, including aggressive and severe chronic periodontal disease.
[taking a common nonsteroidal  anti-inflammatory drug, such as aspirin or ibuprofen (advil) along with  doxycycline, may enhance the effectiveness of this treatment.]
gum inflammation may also occur during ovulation.
other herpes  viruses (cytomegalovirus and epstein-barr) may also play a role in the onset or  progression of some types of periodontal disease, including aggressive and  severe chronic periodontal disease.
aggressive periodontitis.
smoking plays a significant role in many cases of chronic periodontal disease.
in any case, be sure to inform your dentist if you are taking a bisphosphonate drug.
even in healthy mouths, the sulcus is teeming with bacteria, but they tend to be harmless varieties.
subantimicrobial dose  doxycycline (sdd) is a term used for a treatment that uses very low doses (20  mg) of doxycycline (periostat).
smoking cigars and pipes carries the same risks as smoking cigarettes.
people with the disease rarely experience pain and may not be aware of the problem.
ingredients contained in toothpastes may include: fluoride.
investigators are also studying rinses, creams, and other topical forms of  nsaids.
patients with heart conditions and periodontal disease may have elevated levels of c-reactive protein (crp), which indicates inflammation is present.
it is the general dentist's responsibility to identify periodontal  disease and inform the patient.
some research indicates that this inflammatory response can also cause injury in the arteries supplying blood to the heart.
studies have reported that people who have heart disease have a 1.5 - 4 times increased risk for periodontal disease.
a number of nsaids are being investigated for their benefits in  reducing gingivitis and slowing progression of periodontal disease.
the habit can cause bone loss and gum recession even in the absence of  periodontal disease.
certain herpes viruses (herpes simplex and varicella-zoster virus, the cause of chickenpox and shingles) are known causes of gingivitis.
adolescents and young adults with wisdom teeth should have a  dentist check for signs of periodontal disease.
begin by brushing the outer tooth surfaces, followed by the inner tooth  surfaces, and then the chewing surfaces of the teeth.
it has a  bitter taste.
tooth mobility is determined by pushing each tooth between two instrument handles and observing any movement.
the doses used in this treatment, however, are too low to have any effect on bacteria, so this risk may be very low.
bone loss in the alveolar bone (which  holds the tooth in place) may be a major predictor of tooth loss in  postmenopausal women.
the american dental association recommends that everyone: mouthwashes
this condition generally resolves when the underlying problem is  treated.
effect on diabetes diabetes is not only a risk factor for periodontal disease -- periodontal  disease itself can worsen diabetes and make it more difficult to control blood  sugar.
the gel itself dissolves after 2  days, leaving the active substance behind.
it is still not clear if periodontal disease actually causes  heart disease.
2008  apr;111(4):976-86.
these  problems can be managed with topical fluoride treatments or, in severe cases,  with dental restoration.
healthy children,  however, do not generally harbor two primary periodontal bacteria,p.  gingivalis and t. denticola.
eberhard j, jerve-storm pm, needleman i, worthington h, jepsen s.  full-mouth treatment concepts for chronic periodontitis: a systematic review.
not only do they become breeding grounds for bacteria, but the worn bristles are less effective at removing plaque.
2008 jul;35(7):591-604.
hormone-influenced gingivitis appears in some adolescents, in some pregnant women, and is occasionally a side effect of birth control medication.
a number of studies indicate that smoking and nicotine increase inflammation by reducing oxygen in gum tissue and triggering an over-production of immune factors called cytokines (specifically ones called interleukins).
fluoride mouthwashes (act) are helpful in preventing cavities.
periodontitis is characterized by the following: gingivitis precedes periodontitis, although it doesn't always lead to this more severe condition.
click the icon to see an image of the benefits of vitamin c. dental disease is most likely to affect the poor.
the usual regimen is  to rinse twice a day.
up to 30% of the population may have some genetic susceptibility to periodontal disease.
back to top treatment studies support the effectiveness of active treatment combined with a  strict maintenance program for patients with periodontal disease.
de oliveira rr, schwartz-filho ho, novaes ab jr, taba m jr. antimicrobial photodynamic therapy in the non-surgical treatment of aggressive periodontitis: a preliminary randomized controlled clinical study.
periodontal disease: associations with diabetes, glycemic control and complications.
diseases associated with periodontal disease diabetes.
back to top healthy habits and good oral hygiene are critical in preventing gum disease.
the more residual  bacteria, the greater the chance that the treatment will fail.
bacterial culprits reachers have found more than 350 species of microorganisms in the typical  healthy mouth.
it is important to reduce both the quantity and, in particular, the frequency of sugar intake.
some dentists have reported a success rate of 85% when professional treatment and good home maintenance are combined.
some research also indicates that regular cannabis (marijuana) smoking also  increases the risk of periodontal disease.
gingivitis is an inflammation of the gingiva, or gums.
some  research suggests that periodontal disease may even play some causal role.
regular and effective tooth brushing and mouth washing, however, are  effective only above and slightly below the gum line.
back to top in general, symptoms progress over time and include: pain is usually not a symptom, which partly explains why the disease may become advanced before treatment is sought and why some patients avoid treatment even after periodontitis is diagnosed.
periodontal infections are linked to fewer than 5% of these  species.
a more advanced technique, called guided  tissue regeneration, is used to stimulate bone and gum tissue growth: first, the root surfaces and diseased bone are meticulously cleaned out.
other causes of gum inflammation several other conditions can also cause gum inflammation, and some have  been associated with periodontal disease.
the floss that is carried through with it can then be used to  clean underneath the false tooth or teeth and along the sides of the abutting  teeth.
nsaids are drugs that block factors that cause inflammation and pain.
studies report that it is safe and may significantly reduce the effects of periodontal disease.
periodontal disease has also been linked to stroke and coronary artery  disease (cad).
about three-quarters of periodontal office visits are made by women, even though women tend to take better care of their teeth than men.
as  the destructive factors cause the breakdown of bone and connective tissue,  teeth lose their anchor.
nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (nsaids) nsaids are drugs that block factors that cause inflammation and pain.
avoid a very thin floss, which can cut the gum if brought down with too  much force or not guided along the side of the tooth.
finally, the dental hygienist or practitioner should offer thorough  instructions on home care to insure the removal of bacteria on a daily basis.
look for the american dental association (ada) seal on both  electric and regular brushes.
after 4 - 6 weeks, the nonabsorbable fabric must be removed using a minor  surgical procedure.
studies suggest that, in combination with scaling and planing, any of these  approaches are very effective for periodontal health.
symptoms of osteonecrosis of the jaw include loose teeth, exposed jawbone, pain or swelling in the jaw, gum infections, and poor healing of the gums.
bone loss in the alveolar bone (which holds the tooth in place) may be a major predictor of tooth loss in postmenopausal women.
as people age, the risk for periodontal disease increases.
without good management, however, the problem can progress.
mobility is a strong indicator of bone support loss.
they include various streptococcal species.
many studies strongly indicate that bacterial infections that cause moderate-to-severe periodontal disease in pregnant women can increase the risk for premature delivery and low birth weight infants.
one exception is  juvenile periodontitis, in which symptoms are mild or even absent.
some dentists have reported a success rate of 85% when professional  treatment and good home maintenance are combined.
back to top more than 75% of american adults have some form of gum disease, but according to a major survey, only 60% have any significant knowledge about the problem.
to achieve these goals, there are various approaches: after the active treatment is completed and the mouth is in a relative state of health, the patient should have regular cleanings lasting 45 minutes to 1 hour, about every 3 months.
in a study of people over 70 years old, 86% had at least moderate periodontitis, and over a quarter of them had lost their teeth.
hiv-associated gingivitis has been reported in 15 - 50% of patients with hiv or aids.
investigators are also studying rinses, creams, and other topical forms of nsaids.
these two bacteria appear to be particularly likely to cause  aggressive periodontal disease.
much evidence exists on the link between type 1 and 2 diabetes and periodontal disease.
doctors are still not sure if treating periodontal disease can improve birth outcomes.
the risk of periodontal disease increases with the number of cigarettes  smoked per day.
hiv-positive individuals  harbor larger numbers of periodontal bacteria (candida albicans, p. gingivalis,  black-pigmented anaerobic rods, anda. actinomycetemcomitans) than people  without hiv.
over-the-counter nsaids include aspirin, ibuprofen (motrin ib, advil,  nuprin, rufen), naproxen (aleve), ketoprofen (actron, orudis kt).
during this procedure, the periodontist takes gum tissue from the palate or another donor source to cover the exposed root in order to even the gum line and reduce sensitivity.
cannabis smoking and periodontal disease among young adults.
it may be used along with scaling and root planing, but achieves a deeper and more complete cleaning.
treatment helps nonsmokers  more than smokers, particularly when pockets are deep and persistent.
it typically starts out with a purplish color and "boggy" sensation in the gums.
for smokers, quitting is one of the most important steps toward  regaining periodontal health.
the gum is then sewn over the fabric.
metronidazole (flagyl) in combination with tetracycline or amoxicillin (a  penicillin) may be used for severe and chronic periodontal disease.
the  impact of a low-frequency chlorhexidine rinsing schedule on the subgingival  microbiota (the teeth clinical trial).j periodontol.
in cases where the individual has a mitral valve prolapse or history of rheumatic heart disease, pretreatment with an appropriate antibiotic is required before any dental work, including cleaning.
one study reported a higher incidence of periodontal  disease, tooth decay, and possibly precancerous areas in patients who abuse  alcohol.
stress can affect the immune system.
for individuals with average dexterity, a four- or five-rowed, soft, nylon-bristled toothbrush is sufficient.
pocket depths greater than 3 mm indicate disease.
a number of studies indicate that smoking and nicotine  increase inflammation by reducing oxygen in gum tissue and triggering an  over-production of immune factors called cytokines (specifically ones called  interleukins).
acute necrotizing periodontal disease.
dentists now often perform periodontal screening and recording (psr) using a probe to measure gum pockets.
the gum line can be sculpted to improve uneven or excess gums and to cover exposed roots as gums recede.
however, at these dose levels, the drug blocks matrix metalloproteinases (mmps) -- enzymes that destroy the connective tissues holding the teeth.
any pregnancy-related  gingivitis usually resolves within a few months of delivery.
drinking at least 7 glasses of water a  day helps reduce inflammation in the mouth by producing more saliva.
[taking a common nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug, such as aspirin or ibuprofen (advil) along with doxycycline, may enhance the effectiveness of this treatment.]
fluoride treatments fluoride treatment in children has helped to account for the decline in  periodontal disease in adults.
in the united states,  the lack of access to dental insurance is a contributing factor.
gum  inflammation may also occur during ovulation.
they include: mouth breathing psychologic stress.
patients should rinse for 1 minute twice daily.
electronic products, such as water piks, are also helpful.
diabetes causes changes in blood vessels, and  high levels of specific inflammatory chemicals such as interleukins, that  significantly increase the chances of periodontal disease.
as the disease advances the gums  recede, and supporting structure of bone is lost.
home care can effectively eliminate the plaque  above the gums and down to 2 mm below the gums.
hiv-associated gingivitis.
gingivitis, in varying degrees, is nearly a universal finding in children and adolescents.
in fact,  for patients in their 20s, periodontal disease is most likely to occur around  the wisdom teeth.
treating major depression meditation and stress cravings and weight loss your rights as a patient flu overview sleep and pain flu prevention the role of a caregiver how to quit for good cold and flu smarts for kids diet & energy choosing bone density tests bmi calculator calcium calculator diabetes risk quiz heart attack risk calculator calories burned calculator colon cancer risk quiz
aggressive periodontitis (also referred to as early onset periodontitis) often occurs in young people.
over half of american adults have gingivitis surrounding 3 - 4 teeth, and 30%  have significant periodontal disease surrounding 3 - 4 teeth.
high levels of  triglycerides (which are common in type 2 diabetes) also appear to impair  periodontal health.
supplementation with  fluoride tablets or drops may be recommended for children 6 months or older who  drink unfluoridated water or who are at risk for dental problems.
electric toothbrushes, particularly those with a stationary grip and  revolving tufts of bristles, can be advantageous for some people with physical  disabilities.
in periodontal disease, the bacterial balance shifts over to gram  negative anaerobic bacteria.
gingivitis may flare up in some women a few days before they menstruate, when progesterone levels are high.
there is no risk from short exposure, such as after a fast  kiss or when sharing an eating utensil.
studies suggest that, in combination with scaling and planing, any of these approaches are very effective for periodontal health.
in any case, periodontal treatment is safe for pregnant  women.
cochrane database syst rev. 2008 jan 23;(1):cd004622.
implants periodontists report that they are achieving great success with tooth  implants in patients who have lost teeth due to periodontal disease.
cosmetic and gum grafting treatments gum grafting techniques can also be very useful for improving the looks of  the gum as well as adding support to the teeth.
smoking cigars and pipes carries the same risks as smoking  cigarettes.
other factors also put individuals at higher risk.
smokers may be  more than 10 times more likely than nonsmokers to harbor the bacteria that  cause periodontal disease and are also more likely to have advanced periodontal  disease.
age children and adolescents.
the relationship of periodontal disease to diseases and disorders at distant sites: communication to health care professionals and patients.
place the brush where the gum meets the tooth, with bristles resting along  each tooth at a 45-degree angle.
chemically modified tetracyclines.
to achieve these goals, there are various  approaches: initial cleaning, scaling, and curettage surgery -- if needed for reducing deep pockets that remain underneath the  gum after extensive cleaning sessions low-dose oral or topical antibiotics maintenance
guided tissue regeneration.
the  dentist will identify any areas where deep pocketing has occurred, where the  health of the gingiva appears compromised, and where there is undue mobility of  teeth.
antibiotics before treatment.
finally, rub gently up and down against the tooth.
they  include various streptococcal species.
hiv-positive individuals harbor larger numbers of periodontal bacteria (candida albicans, p. gingivalis, black-pigmented anaerobic rods, anda. actinomycetemcomitans) than people without hiv.
staudte h, sigusch bw, glockmann e. grapefruit consumption improves vitamin  c status in periodontitis patients.
deep cleaning: scaling and root planing scaling, polishing, and sometimes curettage are used to manage periodontal  disease.
back to top antibiotics are often used in combination with surgery, curettage, or alone to eliminate or prevent disease-causing bacteria after periodontal procedures.
use short (tooth-wide) strokes.
some studies  suggest that stress can influence the development of chronic inflammatory  diseases, like periodontitis.
further  treatment needs are determined by the results of these initial sessions: if the cleaning processes have reduced inflammation, observation only is  needed.
the objective of a good toothpaste is to reduce the  development of plaque and eliminate periodontal-causing microorganisms without  destroying the organisms that are important for a healthy mouth.
women may also experience abnormal tastes and sensations (such as salty, spicy, acidic, and burning) in the mouth.
they are being investigated in oral forms as well as in topical forms that are applied directly to the gum.
mouthwashes containing stannous fluoride and amine fluoride (meridol) are  moderately effective, but are also not as effective as effective as listerine  or chlorhexidine.
full-mouth disinfection for the treatment of adult chronic periodontitis.
estrogen deficiency after menopause reduces bone mineral  density, which can lead to bone loss.
a piece of  floss is threaded into the loop, which can then be inserted between the bridge  and the gum.
short-term use of standard-dose  doxycycline (a 10-day treatment) is used for treating acute periodontal  infections and for eliminating inflammation.
its severest form, known as necrotizing stomatitis, can be diagnostic for aids.
bacteria that reproduce in the mouth can also be carried into the airways in the throat and lungs, increasing the risks for respiratory diseases and worsening chronic lung conditions, such as emphysema.
fluoride treatment in children has helped to account for the decline in periodontal disease in adults.
canker sores (aphthous ulcers)
for smokers, quitting is one of the most important steps toward regaining periodontal health.
quitting smoking smoking plays a significant role in many cases of chronic periodontal  disease.
after the active treatment is completed and the mouth is in a relative  state of health, the patient should have regular cleanings lasting 45 minutes  to 1 hour, about every 3 months.
back to top periodontal disease is marked by bacterial overgrowth.
however, at these  dose levels, the drug blocks matrix metalloproteinases (mmps) -- enzymes that  destroy the connective tissues holding the teeth.
back to top in general, symptoms progress over time and include: red and swollen
they are usually accomplished in a series of three to four visits spaced about a week apart.
soft bristles get into crevices easier and do not irritate the gums, thereby reducing the risk of exposing teeth below the gum line compared to hard brushes.
move the brush back and forth gently.
in addition to bleeding, the gums in the front of the  mouth are a yellowish-gray color, and bone thrusts out.
periodontal screening and recording (psr).
abscesses can  destroy both gum and tooth tissue, cause nearby teeth to become loose and  painful, and may cause fever and swollen lymph nodes.
smokers may be more than 10 times more likely than nonsmokers to harbor the bacteria that cause periodontal disease and are also more likely to have advanced periodontal disease.
they should wait at least  30 minutes (and preferably 2 hours) between brushing and rinsing since  chlorhexidine can be inactivated by certain compounds in toothpastes.
the hygienist or dentist will then smooth the rough spots on the tooth.
surgical procedures vary depending on the individual  diagnosis and needs of the patient.
before menstruation.
calculus above the gum is easily seen.
a prescription from the child's pediatrician or dentist is required.
eberhard j, jepsen s, jerve-storm pm, needleman i, worthington hv.
it appears to work like this: studies suggest that this inflammatory response may have damaging effects not only in the gums but also in organs throughout the body, including the heart.
place the brush where the gum meets the tooth, with bristles resting along each  tooth at a 45-degree angle.
there is some concern that such long-term use may pose a risk for the  development of antibiotic-resistant bacteria or other, still unknown, adverse  effects.
gingivitis may flare up in some women a few  days before they menstruate, when progesterone levels are high.
even a good toothpaste, however, cannot be delivered  past 3 mm below the gum line, where periodontitis develops.
it may  be used along with scaling and root planing, but achieves a deeper and more  complete cleaning.
standard toothpicks should  never be used for regular hygiene.
some  studies suggest that periodontal treatment in people with type 2 diabetes helps  improve blood sugar levels.
because fluoride prevents decay, back molars,  which keep the teeth in place, are spared, and are thus less vulnerable to  bacteria.
the more severe the periodontitis, the greater the risk for  heart problems.
avoid snacks and drinks with sugar (other than natural sugars found in fruits and vegetables).
if the condition is severe, the dentist may  want to refer the patient to a periodontist.
the more severe the infection, the greater the risk to the baby.
still, more research is needed to determine a definitive association between  these diseases.
brush your tongue to help remove additional bacteria.
since fruit juices can also cause tooth erosion in children, parents should emphasize milk and water.
even before teeth first erupt, babies' gums should be wiped clean with a bit of gauze bearing a dab of fluoride toothpaste.
x-rays are taken to show any loss of bone structure  supporting the teeth.
the risk of periodontal disease increases with the number of cigarettes smoked per day.
herpes virus is a common cause of gingivitis in children and has become increasingly common in adults.
made of plastic, it looks like a needle with a huge eye, or loop.
this involves bone grafting: the surgeon places bone graft material into the defect.
2007  jun;78(6):965-73.
fluoride also inhibits acid-loving bacteria, especially after eating,  when the mouth is more acidic.
female hormones  affect the gums, and women are particularly susceptible to periodontal  problems.
up to 30% of the population may have some  genetic susceptibility to periodontal disease.
further treatment needs are determined by the results of these initial sessions: finally, the dental hygienist or practitioner should offer thorough instructions on home care to insure the removal of bacteria on a daily basis.
the most important factor in buying any toothbrush, electric or manual, is to choose one with a soft head.
if the gum formation between teeth is blunt and not pointed, acute necrotizing periodontal disease may be indicated.
gingival curettage removes the soft tissue lining of the periodontal pockets in order to completely eliminate bacteria and diseased tissue.
progesterone dilates blood vessels causing inflammation, and blocks the repair of collagen, the structural protein that supports the gums.
reachers have found more than 350 species of microorganisms in the typical healthy mouth.
people with tuberculosis, syphilis, wegener's  granulomatosis, amyloidosis, and many genetic disorders are also at higher risk  for periodontitis.
if  discomfort is severe, stronger analgesics may be prescribed.
genetic factors may play the critical role in half  the cases of periodontal disease.
the dentist inspects the color and shape  of gingival tissue on the cheek (buccal) side and the tongue (lingual) side of  every tooth and compares these qualities to the healthy ideal.
the habit can cause bone loss and gum recession even in the absence of periodontal disease.
electric toothbrushes with heads that move back and forth up to  thousands of times a minute remove significantly more plaque than ordinary  brushes.
female hormones affect the gums, and women are particularly susceptible to periodontal problems.
triclosan is an anti-bacterial substance that may help reduce  mild gingivitis.
click the icon  to see an image of a tooth abscess.
enamel matrix protein derivative.
antibiotics given orally and at standard doses have some limited applications for periodontal disease.
mouthwashes containing cetylpyridinium (scope, cepacol) have moderate  antimicrobial effect on plaque, but only if they are used an hour after  brushing.
surgery allows access for deep cleaning of the root surface, removal of diseased tissue, and repositioning and shaping of the bones, gum, and tissues supporting the teeth.
for children with diabetes, good oral hygiene should begin at a young age.
the ada also recommends that patients who take oral bisphosphonate drugs should discuss with their dentists any potential risks from dental procedures (such as extractions and implants) that involve the jawbone.
these bacteria,  together withp. gingivalis, are frequently present at the same sites,  and are associated with deep periodontal pockets.
however, almost all cases of osteonecrosis of the jaw associated with  bisphosphonate drugs occur during or after the use of intravenous  bisphosphonates, usually given as part of treatment for bone cancer or other  cancers that have spread to the bone.
a preliminary randomized controlled clinical study.
in the united states, the lack of access to dental insurance is a contributing factor.
intimate partners and spouses of people with periodontal  disease may also be at risk.
home care can effectively eliminate the plaque above the gums and down to 2 mm below the gums.
j clin periodontol. 2008
some studies report that oral contraceptives  containing the synthetic progesterone desogestrel (but not dienogest, another  common progesterone) increase the risk for periodontal disease.
the part of the mouth that consists of the gum and supporting structures is called the periodontium.
however, they are not a substitute for daily brushing and flossing.
healthy children, however, do not generally harbor two primary periodontal bacteria,p. gingivalis and t. denticola.
although doxycycline is a tetracycline  antibiotic, the doses used are too low to affect bacteria.
2007 apr;34(4):299-304.
inflammatory disease and injury cannot develop  without these bacteria.
it is subdivided according to whether it begins before or after puberty.
increasingly, dental professionals are finding that local application of antibiotics is more effective than periodontal surgery alone.
some studies have  reported that although surgical treatment reduced pocket depth more than  non-surgical therapies for at least a year after the procedure, benefits from  surgery do not persist beyond 5 years, except in very deep pockets.
it  typically starts out with a purplish color and "boggy" sensation in  the gums.
research indicates that vitamin c deficiency  contributes to periodontal disease.
the fabric prevents the gum tissue  from growing down into the bone defect and allows the bone and the attachment  to the root to regenerate.
(patients might ask their dentist about the gas  nitrous oxide, which is helpful for many patients and may reduce the visits to  a single one.)