it will be reviewed and considered for  posting on cnnhealth.com.
although most head injuries are minor, seek prompt medical attention if your child falls hard on his or her head.
got a question about a health story in  the news or a health topic?
your headache diary can help you determine what prompts your child's headaches, so you know what to avoid.
your  child then learns how to reduce muscle tension and slow his or her heart rate  and breathing.
health main living well diet & fitness mental health conditions health a-z ask an expert
treatments and drugs read this article on mayoclinic.com.
have the symptoms changed over time?
in addition to the questions that you've prepared to ask your doctor,  don't hesitate to ask questions during your appointment at any time that you  don't understand something.
caution: overuse of medications is itself a contributing  factor to headache (rebound headache).
be alert for things that may cause stress in your child's life, such as difficulty doing schoolwork or strained relationships with peers.
your doctor asks you and your child to  describe the headaches in detail, to see if there's a pattern or a common  trigger.
this imaging procedure uses a series of computer-directed x-rays that provide a cross-sectional view of your child's brain.
they should be taken at the first sign of headache.
it may help to keep a headache diary —  listing each headache, when it happens, how long it lasts, and what might have  caused it.
tests and diagnosis to learn about the nature of your child's headache, your doctor will  likely recommend the following steps: headache history.
these tests may include: - computerized tomography (ct).
- spinal tap (lumbar puncture).
headaches, particularly  migraines, tend to run in families.
sumatriptan (imitrex), a prescription drug, is effective and can be safely used in children over the age of 12.
also, consider giving your child over-the-counter pain medications such as acetaminophen (tylenol, others) or ibuprofen (advil, motrin, others) to ease symptoms.
what, if anything, makes it worse?
behaviors that promote general good health also may help prevent headaches for your child.
over time, the items you note in the headache diary should help you understand your child's symptoms so that you can take specific preventive measures.
girl scouts in... - 5 smithsonian breaks ground on black... - 6 from pins to projects:
a-z ask an expert got a question about a health story in the news or a health topic?
some studies show that ibuprofen may work faster than acetaminophen in  relieving migraine pain.
migraines in children may last an hour or more.
more-serious infections, such as meningitis or  encephalitis, also can cause headache, but are usually accompanied by other  signs and symptoms, such as fever and neck stiffness.
what you can do write down your child's signs and symptoms, when they occurred and  how long they lasted.
pinterest in... 7 best bites in the big easy 8 dreams you can never give up on 9 keystone oil pipeline would risk...
when to see a doctor most headaches aren't serious,  but seek prompt medical care if your child's headaches: occur at least once a week follow an injury, such as a blow to the head feature persistent vomiting or visual changes are accompanied by fever, along with neck pain or stiffness ©1998-2012 mayo foundation for medical education and research (mfmer).
a diary can help you determine  what causes your child's headaches.
santorum on the budget: close enough 7 france, britain demand syria cease violence 8 ex-lacrosse player guilty of murder 9 50 killed in argentina train crash 10 new inquest into baby's 'dingo' death more  most popular » 1 stop keystone pipeline before it's... 2 australia unearths country's largest...
name* location* email* question* * cnn encourages you to contribute a question.
- certain foods and beverages.
don't give your child otc pain medication more than two or three days a  week.
high levels of stress and anxiety — perhaps triggered by problems with peers, teachers or parents — can play a role in children's headaches.
in addition, headache symptoms in children don't always meet the full criteria for a specific type of headache.
for headaches in children, you typically make an appointment with your family doctor or your child's pediatrician.
stress and busy schedules may increase the frequency of headaches.
if your child has headaches more than 15 days a month for more than three months, doctors call this "chronic daily headache."
an older child can learn relaxation techniques in classes or at home using books or tapes.
what treatments have you tried?
unfortunately, because of the voume of questions we receive, not all can be posted.
headaches in children can usually be  treated with over-the-counter pain medications and other lifestyle and home  measures.
during a biofeedback session, your child is connected to devices that monitor and give feedback on body functions, such as muscle tension, heart rate and blood pressure.
going  without meals can sometimes make headaches worse.
certain medications taken at regular intervals — such as certain antidepressants or anti-seizure medications — may reduce the frequency and severity of headaches.
it will be reviewed and considered for posting on cnnhealth.com.
risk factors read this article on mayoclinic.com.
the medication  strategy differs from child to child, however.
3 addiction is not hopeless 4 indiana lawmaker:
record your child's response  to taking any headache medication.
treatments and  drugs most of the time, you can treat your child's headache at home with rest,  decreased noise, plenty of fluids, balanced meals and over-the-counter (otc)
during this type of talk therapy, a counselor helps your child learn  ways to view and cope with life events more positively.
- follow your doctor's plan.
this helps doctors diagnose tumors, infections and other  possible medical problems that may be causing headaches.
some of these factors include: - illness and infection.
if your child experiences nausea and vomiting with migraines, your doctor  may prescribe an anti-nausea drug, such as promethazine.
- have the symptoms been continuous or intermittent?
over time, painkillers and other  medications may lose their effectiveness.
children get the same types of headaches that adults do, although their symptoms may be different.
cluster headache cluster headaches are uncommon in  children under 10 years of age.
when to see a doctor most headaches aren't serious, but seek prompt medical care if your child's headaches: - occur at least once a week - follow an injury, such as a blow to the head - feature persistent vomiting or visual changes - are accompanied by fever, along with neck pain or stiffness ©1998-2012 mayo foundation for medical education and research (mfmer).
where does the pain occur?
encourage your child to rest in a dark, quiet room.
mri scans  help doctors diagnose tumors, strokes, aneurysms, neurological diseases and  other brain abnormalities.
to learn about the nature of your child's headache, your doctor will likely recommend the following steps: - headache history.
daily use can trigger a rebound headache, a type of headache caused by overuse of pain medications.
headaches in children can usually be treated with over-the-counter pain medications and other lifestyle and home measures.
the goal of biofeedback is to help your child enter a relaxed  state to better cope with pain.
see more questions » most viewed most emailed top searches more most popular » - 1 santorum fends off jabs at record at debate - 2 huguely jury recommends 26 years in prison - 3 5 things we learned from wednesday's debate - 4 tough path for kids who veer from gender norm - 5 2 wounded in connecticut hospital shooting - 6
if your child takes medications regularly, including products you  buy over-the-counter, discuss the risks and benefits with your doctor.
10 woman accused of hiring hit man to... more  most popular »
they usually: - occur in groups of five or more episodes, ranging in frequency from one headache every other day up to eight a day - involve a sharp, stabbing pain on one side of the head that lasts from 15 minutes to three hours - are accompanied by teariness, congestion, runny nose, or a heightened sense of restlessness or agitation chronic daily headache both migraines and tension-type headaches can increase in frequency.
list your questions from most important to least important in case your time with your doctor runs out.
acetaminophen (tylenol, others) or ibuprofen (advil, motrin, others) can typically relieve headaches for your child.
- biofeedback training.
during a biofeedback  session, your child is connected to devices that monitor and give feedback on  body functions, such as muscle tension, heart rate and blood pressure.
symptoms read this article on mayoclinic.com.
over time, painkillers and other medications may lose their effectiveness.
it may help to keep a headache diary — listing each headache, when it happens, how long it lasts, and what might have caused it.
by submitting a question, you agree to  the following terms found below.
stress and busy schedules may increase the  frequency of headaches.
tension-type headache tension-type headaches are  typically characterized by the following features: a pressing tightness that occurs on both sides of the head pain that's usually more dull than throbbing pain that's not worsened by physical activity headache that's not accompanied by nausea or vomiting, as is often the  case with migraine telltale signs in younger children may include withdrawal from regular  play and a desire to sleep more.
what, if anything, makes it better?
otc medications such as these are inexpensive and readily available and don't require a prescription from your doctor.
does your child have other symptoms, such as nausea or dizziness?
- what, if anything, makes it better?
note when the headaches start, how long  they last and what, if anything, provides relief.
these  lifestyle measures include getting plenty of sleep, staying physically active,  eating healthy meals and snacks, and avoiding caffeine.
also, too much caffeine — contained in foods such as  soda, chocolate, coffee and tea — can cause headaches.
caution: overuse of medications is itself a contributing factor to headache (rebound headache).
for headaches in children, some basic questions  to ask your doctor include: what is likely causing the symptoms?
what can we do at home to prevent headaches?
talk to your doctor if you have  concerns.
risk factors any child can develop headaches, but they're more common in: girls after they reach puberty children who have a family history of headaches or
for these situations, your doctor may recommend one or more behavior therapies, such as: - relaxation training.
a child who's too young to tell you what's wrong may cry and hold his or her head to indicate severe pain.
if your child hasn't eaten in a while, offer a piece of fruit, whole-wheat crackers or low-fat cheese.
note when the headaches start, how long they last and what, if anything, provides relief.
if your child is older and has frequent headaches, learning to relax and manage stress through different forms of therapy may help, as well.
relaxation techniques include deep  breathing, yoga, meditation and progressive muscle relaxation, which is  accomplished by tensing one muscle at a time, and then completely releasing the  tension, until every muscle in the body is relaxed.
in a few cases, however, imaging scans and other evaluations are needed to pinpoint a diagnosis or to rule out other medical conditions that could be causing the headaches.
- are tests needed to confirm the diagnosis?
magnetic resonance imaging (mri).
ask your question and we'll post some each week for cnn.com reader to  discuss or for our experts to weight in.
some of these factors include: illness and infection.
they usually: occur in groups of five or more episodes, ranging in frequency from one  headache every other day up to eight a day involve a sharp, stabbing pain on one side of the head that lasts from 15  minutes to three hours
here's your chance to get an answer.
the doctor also performs a physical exam,  including measuring your child's height, weight, head circumference, blood  pressure and pulse, and examining your child's eyes, neck, head, shoulders and  spine.
don't be afraid  to ask questions or to speak up when you don't understand something your doctor  says.
- how long does the headache usually last?
- use caution when giving aspirin to children or teenagers.
migraines ©1998-2012 mayo foundation for medical education and research (mfmer).
if your child hasn't eaten in a  while, offer a piece of fruit, whole-wheat crackers or low-fat cheese.
as a result, it may be  difficult to pinpoint a specific type of headache in a child, especially in a  younger child who isn't able to adequately describe his or her symptoms.
please wait while we retrieve the data mayoclinic.com features yoga for kids:
avoid headache triggers.
accidental bumps and bruises can cause headaches.
as a child grows into adolescence and adulthood, headache symptoms may evolve, as well.
symptoms children get the same types of headaches that adults do, although their  symptoms may be different.
some studies show that ibuprofen may work faster than acetaminophen in relieving migraine pain.
thank you for your question!
in addition to the questions that you've prepared to ask your doctor, don't hesitate to ask questions during your appointment at any time that you don't understand something.
while waiting for your child's appointment, place a cool, wet cloth on your child's forehead and encourage him or her to take a nap in a dark, quiet room.
- what can we do at home to help lessen the pain?
an older child can learn  relaxation techniques in classes or at home using books or tapes.
as a result, it may be difficult to pinpoint a specific type of headache in a child, especially in a younger child who isn't able to adequately describe his or her symptoms.
use a cool, wet compress.
are tests needed to confirm the diagnosis?
children can also have chronic daily headaches.
your doctor checks for any problems  with movement, coordination or sensation.
for headaches in children, some basic questions to ask your doctor include: - what is likely causing the symptoms?
- magnetic resonance imaging (mri).
if your child's headaches are linked to anxiety or depression, consider talking to a counselor.
if your doctor suspects  that an underlying condition, such as bacterial or viral meningitis, is the  cause of your child's headaches, he or she may recommend a spinal tap (lumbar  puncture).
avoid any food or drinks, such  as those containing caffeine, that seem to trigger headaches.
terms of service | privacy guidelines | ad choices | advertise with us | about us | contact us | work for us | help
see more questions » most viewed most emailed top searches 1 santorum fends off jabs at record at debate 2 huguely jury recommends 26 years in prison 3 5 things we learned from wednesday's debate 4 tough path for kids who veer from gender norm 5 2 wounded in connecticut hospital shooting 6
this imaging procedure uses  a series of computer-directed x-rays that provide a cross-sectional view of  your child's brain.
common illnesses such as colds,  flu, and ear and sinus infections are some of the most frequent causes of  headache in children.
though aspirin  is approved for use in children older than age 2, children and teenagers  recovering from chickenpox or flu-like symptoms should never take aspirin.
- what is the best course of action?
that's why it's important to  pay attention to your child's headache symptoms and to consult a doctor if the  headache worsens or occurs frequently.
- avoid headache triggers.
more-serious infections, such as meningitis or encephalitis, also can cause headache, but are usually accompanied by other signs and symptoms, such as fever and neck stiffness.
be alert for things that may cause stress in your  child's life, such as difficulty doing schoolwork or strained relationships  with peers.
what kind of follow-up, if any, is needed?
what you can do in the meantime
list your questions from most important to least important in case your  time with your doctor runs out.
like  adults, children can develop different types of headaches, including migraines  or stress-related (tension) headaches.
before giving your child pain medication, keep these  points in mind: read labels carefully and use only the dosages recommended for your child.
sometimes, an infection or minor head  injury precipitates a continuous, persistent headache.
certain foods and beverages.
use caution when giving aspirin to children or teenagers.
here are some tips to help you get ready for your child's appointment and what to expect from the doctor.
causes read this article on mayoclinic.com.
typically in these cases, however, headache is accompanied by other symptoms, such as visual problems, dizziness, lack of coordination and other neurological problems.
for these  situations, your doctor may recommend one or more behavior therapies, such as: relaxation training.
rarely, a brain tumor or abscess, or bleeding in the brain, may create pressure on areas of the brain, causing a chronic, worsening headache.
- emotional factors.
headaches, particularly migraines, tend to run in families.
- prescription medications.
biofeedback teaches your child to control certain body responses that help reduce pain.
read this article on mayoclinic.com.
also, too much caffeine — contained in foods such as soda, chocolate, coffee and tea — can cause headaches.
- write down questions to ask your doctor.
genetic predisposition.
medications otc pain relievers.
if your child has headaches  more than 15 days a month for more than three months, doctors call this  "chronic daily headache."
lifestyle and home remedies read this article on mayoclinic.com.
this is because aspirin has been linked to reye's syndrome, a rare but  potentially life-threatening condition, in such children.
being ready to answer them may reserve time  to go over any points you want to spend more time on.
- 3 addiction is not hopeless - 4 indiana lawmaker:
if your child takes medications regularly, including products you buy over-the-counter, discuss the risks and benefits with your doctor.
submit another question or go back to cnnhealth.com read answers from our experts:living well | diet & fitness | mental health | conditions updated march 03, 2011 - share this on: mixx facebook twitter digg delicious reddit myspace stumbleupon headaches in children headaches in children are common and are usually not serious.
because appointments can be brief and there's often a lot of ground to  cover, it can help to be well prepared.
your doctor asks you and your child to describe the headaches in detail, to see if there's a pattern or a common trigger.
the goal of biofeedback is to help your child enter a relaxed state to better cope with pain.
- what kind of follow-up, if any, is needed?
- problems in the brain.
if your child's headaches are linked to anxiety or depression,  consider talking to a counselor.
- have the symptoms changed over time?
mri scans help doctors diagnose tumors, strokes, aneurysms, neurological diseases and other brain abnormalities.
your doctor may ask: when did the symptoms first start?
lifestyle and home  remedies over-the-counter (otc) pain medications, such as acetaminophen (tylenol,  others) and ibuprofen (advil, motrin, others), are usually effective in  reducing headache pain.
problems in the brain.
record your child's response to taking any headache medication.
name* location* email* question* * cnn  encourages you to contribute a question.
behaviors that promote  general good health also may help prevent headaches for your child.
in addition, all medications have  side effects.
click here to go to our international version close cnn - switch to: - cnn international - home - video - newspulse - u.s. - world - politics - justice - entertainment - tech - health - living - travel - opinion - ireport - money - sports health main living well diet & fitness mental health conditions health
children with depression may complain of headaches, particularly if they have trouble recognizing feelings of sadness and loneliness.
if your child is otherwise healthy and headache is the only symptom, no further testing usually is needed.
acetaminophen (tylenol, others) or  ibuprofen (advil, motrin, others) can typically relieve headaches for your  child.
this helps doctors diagnose tumors, infections and other possible medical problems that may be causing headaches.
- does your child have other symptoms, such as nausea or dizziness?
your child then learns how to reduce muscle tension and slow his or her heart rate and breathing.
children with depression may complain  of headaches, particularly if they have trouble recognizing feelings of sadness  and loneliness.
depending on the frequency and  severity of your child's symptoms, you may be referred to a doctor who  specializes in conditions of the brain and nervous system (neurologist).
nitrates — a kind of  food preservative found in such foods as bacon, bologna and hot dogs —  have been known to trigger headaches, as can the food additive monosodium  glutamate (msg).
a diary can help you determine what causes your child's headaches.
(optional) women's health men's health children's health boomer health cold & flu headache & migraines sexual health pregnancy & fertility beauty & plastic surgery sleep pain management gadgets & hi-tech brain & nervous system digestive health respiratory health infectious disease cancer & chemo diabetes heart & vascular hiv & aids autism vitamins & supplements weight loss calories, carbs & fats healthy eating recipes yoga & meditation travel fitness budget fitness strength training alternative exercise cardio fitness exercise addiction adhd alzheimer's disease stress depression happiness post traumatic stress disorder amazing mind you may not post any unlawful, threatening, libelous, defamatory, obscene, pornographic or other material that would violate the law.
common illnesses such as colds, flu, and ear and sinus infections are some of the most frequent causes of headache in children.
while your child rests, place a cool, wet cloth on his or her forehead.
in general, though, certain symptoms tend to fall more frequently under certain categories.
this problem can also  occur when your child takes pain medications — even the nonprescription  variety — too frequently.
- what medications does your child take?
how long does the headache usually last?
this  is because aspirin has been linked to reye's syndrome, a rare but potentially  life-threatening condition, in such children.
as a  child grows into adolescence and adulthood, headache symptoms may evolve, as  well.
the following may help you prevent headaches or reduce the severity of  headaches in children: practice healthy behaviors.
causes a number of factors, singly or in combination, can cause your child to  develop headache.
write down questions to ask your doctor.
high levels of stress and anxiety  — perhaps triggered by problems with peers, teachers or parents —  can play a role in children's headaches.
what to expect from your doctor your doctor is likely to ask you a number of questions.
- offer a healthy snack.
this therapy can help your child learn to manage stress and reduce the frequency and severity of headaches.
these lifestyle measures include getting plenty of sleep, staying physically active, eating healthy meals and snacks, and avoiding caffeine.
in addition, headache symptoms in children don't always  meet the full criteria for a specific type of headache.
depression and other mental health disorders also can play a role.
- do other family members experience headaches?
the doctor also performs a physical exam, including measuring your child's height, weight, head circumference, blood pressure and pulse, and examining your child's eyes, neck, head, shoulders and spine.
- what, if anything, makes it worse?
if your child experiences nausea and vomiting with migraines, your doctor may prescribe an anti-nausea drug, such as promethazine.
preparing for your appointment read this article on mayoclinic.com.
preparing for your  appointment
encourage your child to rest in a dark,  quiet room.
like adults, children can develop different types of headaches, including migraines or stress-related (tension) headaches.
©1998-2012 mayo foundation for medical education and research (mfmer).
tension-type headaches can last from 30  minutes to several days.
- how often does your child experience these symptoms?
keep a headache diary.
being ready to answer them may reserve time to go over any points you want to spend more time on.
your doctor may also ask you to keep a headache diary for a time, so you can record more details about your child's headaches, such as frequency, severity of pain and possible triggers.
santorum on the budget: close enough - 7 france, britain demand syria cease violence - 8 ex-lacrosse player guilty of murder - 9 50 killed in argentina train crash - 10 new inquest into baby's 'dingo' death more most popular » - 1 stop keystone pipeline before it's... - 2 australia unearths country's largest...
have the symptoms been continuous or intermittent?
everyday people changing the world • part time jobs • sales & marketing jobs • customer service jobs quick job search : keyword(s): enter city: state ------- al ak az ar ca co ct de dc fl ga hi id il in ia ks ky la me md ma mi mn ms mo mt ne nv nh nj nm ny nc nd oh ok or pa pr ri sc sd tn tx ut vt va wa wv wi wy job type ----------------- accounting admin & clerical automotive banking biotech broadcast - journalism business development construction consultant customer service design distribution -
what's wrong may cry and hold his or her head to indicate severe pain.
daily use can trigger a rebound headache, a type of headache caused by  overuse of pain medications.
this therapy can help your  child learn to manage stress and reduce the frequency and severity of  headaches.
cognitive behavioral therapy.
going without meals can sometimes make headaches worse.
if your doctor suspects that an underlying condition, such as bacterial or viral meningitis, is the cause of your child's headaches, he or she may recommend a spinal tap (lumbar puncture).
sometimes, an infection or minor head injury precipitates a continuous, persistent headache.
a number of factors, singly or in combination, can cause your child to develop headache.
ask your doctor or pharmacist if you have questions.
cluster headache cluster headaches are uncommon in children under 10 years of age.
during this type of talk therapy, a counselor helps your child learn ways to view and cope with life events more positively.
in some cases, headaches in children are caused by an infection, high  levels of stress or anxiety, or minor head trauma.
how often does your child experience these symptoms?
before giving your child pain medication, keep these points in mind: - read labels carefully and use only the dosages recommended for your child.
girl scouts in... 5 smithsonian breaks ground on black... 6 from pins to projects:
while stress doesn't appear to cause  headaches, it can act as a trigger for headache or make headache worse.
your headache  diary can help you determine what prompts your child's headaches, so you know  what to avoid.
this problem can also occur when your child takes pain medications — even the nonprescription variety — too frequently.
- cognitive behavioral therapy.
rarely, a brain tumor or abscess,  or bleeding in the brain, may create pressure on areas of the brain, causing a  chronic, worsening headache.
unfortunately,  because of the voume of questions we receive, not all can be posted.
your doctor may recommend  preventive medication if the headaches are severe, occur daily and interfere  with your child's normal lifestyle.
migraine migraines can cause: - head pain - nausea - vomiting - abdominal pain - extreme sensitivity to light and sound even infants can have migraines.
also, consider giving your child over-the-counter pain medications such as  acetaminophen (tylenol, others) or ibuprofen (advil, motrin, others) to ease  symptoms.
biofeedback teaches your child to  control certain body responses that help reduce pain.
your doctor may ask: - when did the symptoms first start?
ask your doctor or pharmacist if  you have questions.
depending on the frequency and severity of your child's symptoms, you may be referred to a doctor who specializes in conditions of the brain and nervous system (neurologist).
otc medications such as these are inexpensive and  readily available and don't require a prescription from your doctor.
talk to your doctor if you have concerns.
an mri can also be used to examine the blood vessels that supply the brain.
prevention read this article on mayoclinic.com.
turner broadcasting system, inc.
- make a list of all medications, as well as any vitamins or supplements, that your child is taking.
sleeping often resolves headaches in children.
ask your question and we'll post some each week for cnn.com reader to discuss or for our experts to weight in.
don't give doses more frequently than recommended.
by submitting a question, you agree to the following terms found below.
- genetic predisposition.
- use a cool, wet compress.
make a list of all medications, as well as any vitamins  or supplements, that your child is taking.
prescription medications.
- what can we do at home to prevent headaches?
while stress doesn't appear to cause headaches, it can act as a trigger for headache or make headache worse.
the medication strategy differs from child to child, however.
while waiting for  your child's appointment, place a cool, wet cloth on your child's forehead and  encourage him or her to take a nap in a dark, quiet room.
any child can develop headaches, but they're more common in: - girls after they reach puberty - children who have a family history of headaches or
in this procedure, a thin needle is inserted between two vertebrae  in the lower back to extract a sample of cerebrospinal fluid (csf) for  laboratory analysis.
for headaches in children, you typically make an appointment with your  family doctor or your child's pediatrician.
also contact a doctor if your child has a steadily worsening head pain after a head injury.
accidental bumps and bruises can cause  headaches.
- where does the pain occur?
are accompanied by teariness, congestion, runny nose, or a heightened  sense of restlessness or agitation chronic daily headache both migraines and  tension-type headaches can increase in frequency.
what is the best course of action?
in some cases, headaches in children are caused by an infection, high levels of stress or anxiety, or minor head trauma.
because appointments can be brief and there's often a lot of ground to cover, it can help to be well prepared.
relaxation techniques include deep breathing, yoga, meditation and progressive muscle relaxation, which is accomplished by tensing one muscle at a time, and then completely releasing the tension, until every muscle in the body is relaxed.
your doctor may recommend preventive medication if the headaches are severe, occur daily and interfere with your child's normal lifestyle.
by submitting your question, you hereby give cnn the right, but not the obligation, to post, air, edit, exhibit, telecast, cablecast, webcast, re-use, publish, reproduce, use, license, print, distribute or otherwise use your questions(s) and accompanying personal identifying and other information you provide via all forms of media now known or hereafter devised, worldwide, in perpetuity.
this is because aspirin has been linked to reye's syndrome, a rare but potentially life-threatening condition, in such children.
follow your doctor's plan.
please  wait while we retrieve the data mayoclinic.com features yoga for kids:
your doctor checks for any problems with movement, coordination or sensation.
cnn privacy statment.
biofeedback training.
in addition to otc pain medications, the following measures can help ease  your child's headache: rest and relax.
spinal tap (lumbar puncture).
what can we do at home to help lessen the pain?
if your child is older and has frequent headaches, learning to  relax and manage stress through different forms of therapy may help, as well.
also contact a doctor if your  child has a steadily worsening head pain after a head injury.
sumatriptan (imitrex), a  prescription drug, is effective and can be safely used in children over the age  of 12.
migraine abdominal pain extreme sensitivity to light and sound even infants can have migraines.
by submitting your question, you  hereby give cnn the right, but not the obligation, to post, air, edit, exhibit,  telecast, cablecast, webcast, re-use, publish, reproduce, use, license, print,  distribute or otherwise use your questions(s) and accompanying personal  identifying and other information you provide via all forms of media now known  or hereafter devised, worldwide, in perpetuity.
though aspirin is approved for use in children older than age 2, children and teenagers recovering from chickenpox or flu-like symptoms should never take aspirin.
over-the-counter (otc) pain medications, such as acetaminophen (tylenol, others) and ibuprofen (advil, motrin, others), are usually effective in reducing headache pain.
in addition, all medications have side effects.
questions and comments are moderated by cnn and will not appear until after they have been reviewed and approved.
tension-type headaches can last from 30 minutes to several days.
although most head injuries are minor, seek prompt medical attention  if your child falls hard on his or her head.
they  should be taken at the first sign of headache.
these tests may include: computerized tomography (ct).
mris use radio waves  and a powerful magnet to produce very detailed views of the brain.
children can also have chronic daily  headaches.
does my child need prescription medication, or would an over-the-counter  medication work?
- neurological exam.
the following may help you prevent headaches or reduce the severity of headaches in children: - practice healthy behaviors.
medications - otc pain relievers.
in this procedure, a thin needle is inserted between two vertebrae in the lower back to extract a sample of cerebrospinal fluid (csf) for laboratory analysis.
avoid any food or drinks, such as those containing caffeine, that seem to trigger headaches.
in general, though, certain symptoms tend to fall more frequently under  certain categories.
certain medications taken at regular  intervals — such as certain antidepressants or anti-seizure medications  — may reduce the frequency and severity of headaches.
(optional) women's  health men's health children's health boomer health cold & flu headache  & migraines sexual health pregnancy & fertility beauty & plastic
in addition to otc pain medications, the following measures can help ease your child's headache: - rest and relax.
if  your question is chosen, it could be featured on cnn.com's health page with an  answer from one of our health experts, or by a participant in the cnnhealth  community.
an mri can also be used to examine the blood vessels  that supply the brain.
tests and diagnosis read this article on mayoclinic.com.
while your child rests, place a  cool, wet cloth on his or her forehead.
- don't give doses more frequently than recommended.
don't be afraid to ask questions or to speak up when you don't understand something your doctor says.
if your child is otherwise healthy and headache is the only symptom, no  further testing usually is needed.
if your question is chosen, it could be featured on cnn.com's health page with an answer from one of our health experts, or by a participant in the cnnhealth community.
mris use radio waves and a powerful magnet to produce very detailed views of the brain.
pinterest in... - 7 best bites in the big easy - 8 dreams you can never give up on - 9 keystone oil pipeline would risk... - 10 woman accused of hiring hit man to... more most popular » - 1 swine flu - 2 michael jackson - 3 facebook - 4 caylee anthony - 5 rihanna - 6 pontiac - 7 gm - 8 craigslist - 9 octuplets - 10 obama most viewed most emailed top searches more most popular » - - - - - more most popular » - - - - - more most popular » - 1 swine flu - 2 video - 3 china - 4 moos - 5 casey anthony - 6 obama - 7 larry king - 8 susan boyle - 9 pakistan - 10 horse more most popular » - 1 unrest in the arab world - 2 empowered patient - 3 war in iraq - 4 nancy grace's cold cases - 5 cnn heroes 2012 -
- don't give your child otc pain medication more than two or three days a week.
typically in these cases, however, headache is  accompanied by other symptoms, such as visual problems, dizziness, lack of  coordination and other neurological problems.
send us your questions about general health topics, diet and fitness and mental health.
nitrates — a kind of food preservative found in such foods as bacon, bologna and hot dogs — have been known to trigger headaches, as can the food additive monosodium glutamate (msg).
submit another question or go back to cnnhealth.com read answers  from our experts:living well | diet & fitness | mental health | conditions updated march 03, 2011 mixx facebook twitter digg delicious reddit myspace  stumbleupon headaches in children headaches in children are common and are usually not serious.
for example, a migraine in an adult almost always  affects just one side of the head, whereas a child's migraine often affects  both sides of the head.
most of the time, you can treat your child's headache at home with rest, decreased noise, plenty of fluids, balanced meals and over-the-counter (otc) pain relievers.
do other family members experience headaches?
what to expect from your doctor your doctor is likely  to ask you a number of questions.
ask a question want to know more about this article or other health related issues?
what medications does your child take?
though  aspirin is approved for use in children older than age 2, children and  teenagers recovering from chickenpox or flu-like symptoms should never take  aspirin.
your doctor may also ask you to keep a headache diary for a time, so  you can record more details about your child's headaches, such as frequency,  severity of pain and possible triggers.
offer a healthy snack.
ask a  question want to know more about this article or other health related issues?
- what treatments have you tried?
here are some tips to help you get  ready for your child's appointment and what to expect from the doctor.
for example, a migraine in an adult almost always affects just one side of the head, whereas a child's migraine often affects both sides of the head.
what you can do - write down your child's signs and symptoms, when they occurred and how long they lasted.
over time, the items you note in the  headache diary should help you understand your child's symptoms so that you can  take specific preventive measures.
talk to your doctor  if you have concerns.
- does my child need prescription medication, or would an over-the-counter medication work?
a child who's too young to tell you
send us your  questions about general health topics, diet and fitness and mental health.
that's why it's important to pay attention to your child's headache symptoms and to consult a doctor if the headache worsens or occurs frequently.
tension-type headache tension-type headaches are typically characterized by the following features: - a pressing tightness that occurs on both sides of the head - pain that's usually more dull than throbbing - pain that's not worsened by physical activity - headache that's not accompanied by nausea or vomiting, as is often the case with migraine telltale signs in younger children may include withdrawal from regular play and a desire to sleep more.
questions and comments are moderated by cnn and will  not appear until after they have been reviewed and approved.
- keep a headache diary.
shipping education engineering entry level - new grad executive facilities finance general business general labor government grocery healthcare hotel - hospitality human resources information technology installation - maint - repair insurance inventory legal legal admin management manufacturing marketing nurse other pharmacy professional services purchasing - procurement qa - quality control research restaurant - food service retail sales science skilled labor - trades strategy - planning supply chain telecomm training transportation warehouse more options » weather forecast home | video | newspulse | u.s. | world | politics | justice | entertainment | tech | health | living | travel | opinion | ireport | money | sports tools & widgets | rss | podcasts | blogs | cnn mobile | my profile | e-mail alerts | cnn radio | cnn shop | site map cnn en español | cnn chile | cnn expansion | | | | cnn tv | hln | transcripts © 2010 cable news network.
in a few cases, however, imaging scans and  other evaluations are needed to pinpoint a diagnosis or to rule out other  medical conditions that could be causing the headaches.
surgery sleep pain management gadgets & hi-tech brain & nervous system  digestive health respiratory health infectious disease cancer & chemo  diabetes heart & vascular hiv & aids autism vitamins & supplements  weight loss calories, carbs & fats healthy eating recipes yoga &  meditation travel fitness budget fitness strength training alternative exercise  cardio fitness exercise addiction adhd alzheimer's disease stress depression  happiness post traumatic stress disorder amazing mind you may  not post any unlawful, threatening, libelous, defamatory, obscene, pornographic  or other material that would violate the law.