if someone has heat exhaustion or heat stroke, remove the person from the  warm area.
- shop home fever email print follow us rss fever share - definition - alternative names - considerations - common causes - home care - call your health care provider if - what to expect at your health care provider's office - references what is this?
sometimes doctors advise you to use both types of medicine.
is it increasing rapidly?
ibuprofen is not approved for use in children younger  than 6 months old.
a child under age 2 years has a fever that lasts longer than 24
place ice packs in the armpits, behind the neck, and in the groin.
there are other symptoms that suggest an illness may need to be treated,  such as a sore throat, earache, or cough.
philadelphia, pa: saunders elsevier; 2007.
clinical policy for children younger than three years  presenting to the emergency department with fever.
nelson textbook of pediatrics.
does it go away and then come back again daily?
when trying to reduce a fever: do not bundle up someone who has the chills.
- does the temperature go up and down suddenly (spike), or does it change slowly?
take acetaminophen every 4 - 6 hours.
- aspirin is very effective for treating fever in adults.
lower temperatures might also be a fever, depending on the person.
your doctor may ask questions such  as: how long has the fever lasted?
do you have alternating chills and fever?
facebook more... email print rss definition normal body temperature varies by person, age, activity, and time of day.
many parents also fear that untreated fevers will keep going higher and higher.
did it develop suddenly?
like aspirin, it helps fight inflammation at the source of the fever.
back to top what to expect at your health care provider's office
back to top call your health care provider if call a doctor right away if: back to top - a baby younger than 90 days old has a rectal temperature of 100.4°f (38°c) or higher.
it can happen when a child is left in a hot car or when you exercise too strenuously without enough to drink.
like aspirin, it helps fight  inflammation at the source of the fever.
explore myoptumhealth videos view all health videos » - treating major depression - meditation and stress - cravings and weight loss - your rights as a patient - flu overview - sleep and pain - flu prevention - the role of a caregiver - how to quit for good - cold and flu smarts for kids - diet & energy - choosing bone density tests illustrations thermometer temperature temperature measurement calculators & tools view all calculators & tools » we'd love to hear what you think of our site.
the goal is to lower, not  eliminate, the fever.
far from being an enemy, it is an important part of the body's defense against infection.
urac's accreditation program is the first of its kind, requiring compliance with 53 standards of quality and accountability, verified by independent audit.
back to top call  your health care provider if call a doctor right away if: a baby younger than 90 days old has a rectal temperature of 100.4°f  (38°c) or higher.
for example, irritability, confusion,  difficulty breathing, stiff neck, inability to move an arm or leg, or  first-time seizure.
however, a woman's menstrual cycle can elevate her temperature by 1 degree or more.
in any event, simple febrile seizures are over in moments with no lasting consequences.
here are some guidelines for taking medicine: - acetaminophen and ibuprofen help reduce fever in children and adults.
- in children 6 months to 2 years old, the daily variation is about 1 degree.
- a fever lasts longer than 48 to 72 hours in older children and adults.
drink fluids and rest.
give fluids if the person is alert.
it works by turning down the brain's
a fever lasts longer than 48 to 72 hours in older children and adults.
the email address you've entered is already on our subscription list.
how frequently does it alternate (days, hours)?
your doctor will perform a physical examination, which may include a  detailed examination of the skin, eyes, ears, nose, throat, neck, chest, and  abdomen to look for the cause of the fever.
- don't use any medicine to reduce fever in children under 3 months of age without first contacting a health care provider.
a.d.a.m. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online health information and services.
molecular aspects of fever and  hyperthermia.
- how frequently does it alternate (days, hours)?
place ice packs in the armpits,  behind the neck, and in the groin.
aspirin is very effective for treating fever in adults.
it works by turning down the brain's thermostat.
- a lukewarm bath or sponge bath may help cool someone with a fever.
for example, one layer of lightweight clothing, and one lightweight  blanket to sleep.
sign in | register | help?
it is not a substitute for your doctor or other health care professional's care.
did it occur within four to six hours after exposure to something that you  might be allergic to?
do not use cold baths or alcohol rubs.
raising the temperature a few degrees can give your body the winning edge.
anyone has a fever over 105°f (40.5°c), unless it comes down  readily with treatment and the person is comfortable.
sponge the person with tepid water.
when trying to reduce a fever: - do not bundle up someone who has the chills.
philadelphia, pa: wb saunders; 2004:839-841.
goldman l, ausiello d, eds.
fever is not an illness.
unexplained fevers that continue for days or weeks are called fevers of undetermined origin (fuo).
take steps to lower a fever if you or your child is uncomfortable, vomiting, dehydrated, or having difficulty sleeping.
medications (such as antibiotics, antihistamines, barbiturates, and drugs  for high blood pressure) neuroblastoma occasionally, more serious problems like pneumonia, appendicitis,  tuberculosis, and meningitis periarteritis nodosa sore throats and strep throat systemic lupus erythematosus upper respiratory infections (such as tonsillitis, pharyngitis or  laryngitis) urinary tract infections viral gastroenteritis or bacterial gastroenteritis back to top home care
most bacteria and viruses that cause infections in people thrive best at 98.6°f.
does the fever follow an up and down pattern (is it high, then lower, then  high)?
- does it go away and then come back again daily?
take our short survey shortcuts - health information & news - diseases & conditions - drug guide - health news - newsletters - tests & procedures - health videos - shop - manage my health - calculators & tools - find a doctor - personal health record - symptom checker - health hubs - complementary & alternative medicine - cancer - children's health - colds & flu - diabetes - first aid & safety - fitness - - healthy pregnancy - healthy weight, healthy kids - heart health - men's health - mental health, stress & grief - nutrition - pain management - - parenting - respiratory diseases - saving & paying for health care - seniors' health - take charge of your health - women's health help | about us | advertise with us | contact us | feedback | advisory board | learn about nowclinic © 2012 optumhealth, inc. | terms and conditions | privacy and security policy | advertising and editorial policy myoptumhealth.com does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment recommendations.
the material on this site is for informational purposes only.
you will receive the next issue of healthclicks as soon as available.
remove excess clothing or blankets.
heatstroke is a particularly dangerous type of high temperature, because the body is not able to stop the temperature from continuing to rise.
- anyone has a fever over 105°f (40.5°c), unless it comes down readily with treatment and the person is comfortable.
- fever medicines come in different concentrations, so always check the instructions on the package.
fever medicines come in different concentrations, so always check the  instructions on the package.
if heat illness is causing the fever, medicines may not  lower the body temperature and may even be harmful.
drink cool liquids, as tolerated.
for example, irritability, confusion, difficulty breathing, stiff neck, inability to move an arm or leg, or first-time seizure.
roth j, rummel c, barth sw, et al.
a.d.a.m. is also a founding member of hi-ethics (www.hiethics.com) and subscribes to the principles of the health on the net foundation (www.hon.ch).
help us continually improve.
body temperature varies less in adults.
- remove excess clothing or blankets.
cecil medicine, 23rd ed.
please enter your email address.
ann emerg med. 2003;42(4):530-545.
what to expect at your health care provider's office your doctor will perform a physical examination, which may include a detailed examination of the skin, eyes, ears, nose, throat, neck, chest, and abdomen to look for the cause of the fever.
- has the fever gone away?
- there are other worrisome symptoms.
- in children younger than 6 months of age, the daily variation is small.
learn more about a.d.a.m.'s editorial process.
sometimes doctors advise you to use  both types of medicine.
back to top common causes back to top - acute bronchitis - aids and hiv infection - cancer - colds or flu-like illnesses - collagen vascular disease, rheumatoid diseases, and autoimmune disorders - ear infections - fever can occur in infants who are overdressed in hot weather or a hot environment - hodgkin's disease - infectious mononucleosis - inflammatory bowel disease - juvenile rheumatoid arthritis - leukemia - medications (such as antibiotics, antihistamines, barbiturates, and drugs for high blood pressure) - neuroblastoma - non-hodgkin's lymphoma - occasionally, more serious problems like pneumonia, appendicitis, tuberculosis, and meningitis - periarteritis nodosa - regional enteritis - sore throats and strep throat - systemic lupus erythematosus - ulcerative colitis - upper respiratory infections (such as tonsillitis, pharyngitis or laryngitis) - urinary tract infections - viral and bacterial infections - viral gastroenteritis or bacterial gastroenteritis home care
the environment should be comfortably cool.
behrman re, kliegman rm, jenson hb, eds.
the environment should be comfortably  cool.
your body temperature is usually highest in the evening.
clinical policy for children younger than three years presenting to the emergency department with fever.
the goal is to lower, not eliminate, the fever.
this is especially effective after medication is given -- otherwise the temperature might bounce right back up.
- a baby 3 to 12 months old has a fever of 102.2°f (39°c) or higher.
if the fever is mild and no other problems are present, no medical  treatment is required.
a rectal temperature of 100.5°f or above should always be considered a fever.
seek medical attention.
- there are other symptoms that suggest an illness may need to be treated, such as a sore throat, earache, or cough.
there are other worrisome symptoms.
the following diagnostic tests may be performed: blood studies, such as a cbc or blood differential urinalysis back to top references american college of emergency physicians clinical policies subcommittee on  pediatric fever.
if heat illness is causing the fever, medicines may not lower the body temperature and may even be harmful.
many infants and children develop high fevers with minor viral illnesses.
- you think you may have incorrectly dosed acetaminophen or ibuprofen.
molecular aspects of fever and hyperthermia.
once a child is already known to have a high fever, a febrile seizure is unlikely with the current illness.
do not give aspirin to children unless specifically directed by your doctor.
my benefits - home - health hubs - women's health - men's health - children's health - seniors' health - healthy pregnancy - parenting - healthy weight, healthy kids - cancer - diabetes - fitness - nutrition - saving & paying for health care - heart - mental health - first aid & safety - view all health hubs - diseases & conditions - asthma - attention deficit hyperactivity disorder - back pain and sciatica - cholesterol - colds and the flu - fever blisters and canker sores - gingivitis - headaches - tension - high blood pressure - type 2 diabetes - view all diseases & conditions - tests & procedures - allergy testing - blood pressure - colonoscopy - coronary angiography - electrocardiogram - heart bypass surgery - holter monitor (24h) - knee joint replacement - lasik eye surgery - pulmonary function tests - view all tests & procedures - drug guide - find a drug - interactions calculator - recalls and alerts - approvals - commonly searched drugs - acetaminophen - advair diskus - ambien - azithromycin - cymbalta - lexapro - lipitor - lisinopril - norvasc - oxycodone - view all drugs - manage my health - symptom checker - personal health record - find a doctor - bmi calculator - calcium calculator - calories burned calculator - children's growth calculator - fertility calculator - fitness assessment - heart attack risk calculator - view all tools
these cool the skin, but often make the situation worse by causing shivering, which raises the core body temperature.
- did it occur within four to six hours after exposure to something that you might be allergic to?
- do you have alternating chills and fever?
this is  especially effective after medication is given -- otherwise the temperature  might bounce right back up.
you think you may have incorrectly dosed acetaminophen or ibuprofen.
back to top alternative names elevated temperature; hyperthermia; pyrexia back to top considerations normal body temperature varies.
take steps to lower a fever if you or your child is uncomfortable,  vomiting, dehydrated, or having difficulty sleeping.
this article uses information by permission from alan greene, m.d., ©  greene ink, inc. back to top
while a fever signals to us that a battle might be going on in the body, the fever is fightingfor the person, not against.
ibuprofen is not approved for use in children younger than 6 months old.
take ibuprofen every 6 - 8 hours.
twitter digg facebook more... email print rss a.d.a.m., inc. is accredited by urac, also known as the american accreditation healthcare commission (www.urac.org).
- does the fever follow an up and down pattern (is it high, then lower, then high)?
however,febrile seizures do occur in some children.
- take acetaminophen every 4 - 6 hours.
- do not use cold baths or alcohol rubs.
if someone has heat exhaustion or heat stroke, remove the person from the warm area.
has the fever gone away?
do not give  aspirin to children unless specifically directed by your doctor.
the average normal body temperature is 98.6°f (37°c).
brain damage from a fever generally will not occur unless the fever is over 107.6°f (42°c).
- how many days did it take for the fever to go away?
some parents fear that fevers will cause seizures.
philadelphia,  pa: saunders elsevier; 2007.
in addition, a fever activates the body's immune system to make more white blood cells, antibodies, and other infection-fighting agents.
this is especially true in children.
here are some guidelines for taking medicine: acetaminophen and ibuprofen help reduce fever in children and adults.
sign up for our free email newsletter (learn more) please enter a valid email address.
- drink cool liquids, as tolerated.
the following diagnostic tests may be performed: back to top - blood studies, such as a cbc or blood differential - urinalysis - x-ray of the chest references american college of emergency physicians clinical policies subcommittee on pediatric fever.
a lukewarm bath or sponge bath may help cool someone with a fever.
does the temperature go up and down suddenly (spike), or does it change  slowly?
treatment depends on the duration and cause of the fever, and on other accompanying symptoms.
a rectal temperature up to 100.4°f (38°c) may be entirely normal.
seek  medical attention.
if a child is playful and comfortable, drinking plenty of fluids, and able to sleep, fever treatment is not likely to help.
it can be raised by physical activity, strong emotion, eating, heavy clothing, medications, high room temperature, and high humidity.
- daily variations gradually increase to 2 degrees per day by age 6.
your doctor may ask questions such as: - how long has the fever lasted? - is it increasing?
treatment depends on the duration and cause of the fever, and on other  accompanying symptoms.
- a child under age 2 years has a fever that lasts longer than 24 to 48 hours.
many parents fear that fevers will cause brain damage.
don't use any medicine to reduce fever in children under 3 months of age  without first contacting a health care provider.
for the great majority of children, this is not the case.
if the room is hot or stuffy, a fan may help.
these cool the skin, but often make  the situation worse by causing shivering, which raises the core body  temperature.
- did it develop suddenly?
if the fever is mild and no other problems are present, no medical treatment is required.
untreated fevers caused by infection will seldom go over 105°f unless the child is overdressed or trapped in a hot place.
this article uses information by permission from alan greene, m.d., © greene ink, inc.
a baby 3 to 12 months old has a fever of 102.2°f (39°c) or higher.
back to top share what is this?
although infections are the most common causes of higher than normal body temperature, fevers have a long list of other causes, including toxins, cancers, and autoimmune diseases.
if a child is playful and  comfortable, drinking plenty of fluids, and able to sleep, fever treatment is  not likely to help.
for example, one layer of lightweight clothing, and one lightweight blanket to sleep.
how many days did it take for the fever to go away?