these symptoms could be an early sign ofreye syndrome, a rare but serious  illness.
regular use of stimulant laxatives is not recommended.
to avoid constipation, stop taking  antidiarrheal medicines as soon as stools thicken.
antihistamines can cause problems for some people with health problems  such as asthma, glaucoma, epilepsy, or an enlarged prostate.
there are many other ways to treat constipation, such as drinking more water.
for more information on diarrhea symptoms and treatment, see the topics diarrhea, age 12 and older and diarrhea, age 11 and younger.
although it seems familiar and safe, aspirin is a very powerful drug.
carefully read the label of any nonprescription drug you use, especially if  you also take prescription medicines for other health problems.
laxatives - previous section: antacids and acid reducers - top of page - next section: antidiarrheals - previous section: bulking agents, stool softeners, and laxatives - top of page - next section: cold and allergy remedies - previous section: antidiarrheals - top of page - next section: pain relievers - previous section: cold and allergy remedies - top of page - next section: other places to get help - previous section: pain relievers - top of page - next section: related information - previous section: other places to get help - top of page - next section: references - previous section: related information - top of page - next section: credits - previous section: references - top of page last revised: july 6, 2011 author: healthwise staff medical review: e. gregory thompson, md - internal medicine & margaret hetherington, b.sc.
there are several kinds of antacids.
aspirin precautions - keep all aspirin out of children's reach.
but nonprescription medicines help relieve some cold symptoms, such as nasal congestion and cough.
these products may cause constipation.
- use of antihistamines to treat the stuffiness of a cold will often thicken the mucus, making it harder to get rid of.
precautions - take any laxative or bulking agent with plenty of water or other liquids.
in general, whether you take medicines for your cold or not, you'll get better in about a week.
- antacids with alginic acid (such as gaviscon) contain a foaming agent that floats on top of the stomach contents.
web address: www.fda.gov/consumer/default.htm this web site has health information for people of all ages.
when you take an antihistamine that makes you drowsy, the drowsiness  usually decreases with continued use.
see why this one test is so important and how to schedule yours.#sanfordcancer http://t.co/f9cozsxr 09:25
- bleeding or easy bruising.
cold and allergy remedies.
- avoid cold remedies that combine medicines to treat many symptoms.
they also draw fluids into the intestine from other tissue and blood vessels.
aspirin  comes as adult-strength (325 mg) or low-dose (81 mg).
they may not be safe for young children.
continued use will cause a "rebound effect " in which your mucous membranes swell up more than before you used the  spray.
these drugs can interact with other medicines and can sometimes cause serious  health problems.
be sure to take the recommended dose.
read the package carefully or ask your pharmacist or doctor to help you choose the best decongestant for you.
aspirin: should i take daily aspirin to prevent a heart attack or stroke?
decongestants can cause problems for people who have certain health  problems, such as heart disease, high blood pressure, glaucoma, diabetes, or an  overactive thyroid.
- do not use antacids for more than 2 weeks unless you have talked with your doctor about taking them on a long-term basis.
if your kidneys are not working correctly, it is possible that too much of the drug will build up in your body.
antacids with alginic acid (such as gaviscon) contain a foaming agent that  floats on top of the stomach contents.
but don't assume that all nonprescription drugs are safe for you.
bulking agents, stool softeners, and laxatives there are four types of products used to prevent or treat constipation: bulking agents, stool softeners, osmotic laxatives, and stimulant laxatives.
decision points focus on key medical care decisions that are important to many health problems.
if you need help having regular bowel movements, use a bulking agent.
use as often as needed.
these symptoms could be an early sign ofreye syndrome, a rare but serious illness.
if your runny nose is caused by allergies, an antihistamine may help.
- be careful with cold medicines.
drink extra fluids when you are taking cold medicines.
healthwise, incorporated disclaims any warranty or liability for your use of this information.
your pharmacist can suggest a medicine for your cold and allergy symptoms.
sometimes, though, coughs are severe enough to impair breathing or prevent rest.
for teens - family health - for parents - find classes & events topic contents - overview - health tools - antacids and acid reducers - bulking agents, stool softeners, and laxatives - antidiarrheals - cold and allergy remedies - pain relievers - other places to get help - related information - references - credits nonprescription medicines and products overview a nonprescription medicine—sometimes called an over-the-counter, or otc, medicine—is any drug that you can buy without a doctor's prescription.
take other medicines such as ibuprofen or naproxen for the  first 2 or 3 days after an injury.
alka-seltzer contains aspirin, which is linked to reye syndrome, a rare but serious illness in children.
osmotic laxatives, such as fleet phospho-soda, milk of magnesia, or  miralax, and nonabsorbable sugars (such as lactulose or sorbitol), hold fluids  in the intestine.
talk to your doctor or pharmacist if the medicine still makes you drowsy or if the medicine isn't helping your symptoms after 1 week.
this may help keep stomach juices from coming in contact with your esophagus.
this helps bulk up the stool and make it more firm.
- throw aspirin away if it starts to smell like vinegar.
talk to your doctor or pharmacist if the  medicine still makes you drowsy or if the medicine isn't helping your symptoms  after 1 week.
- don't use medicated nasal sprays or drops more than 3 times a day or for more than 3 days in a row.
bulking agents, such as bran or psyllium (found in metamucil, for example) ease constipation by increasing the volume of stool and making it easier to pass.
a productive  cough produces phlegm or mucus (sputum).
products such as chlorpheniramine (chlor-trimeton) and diphenhydramine (benadryl) are single-ingredient antihistamine products.
look for expectorants containing guaifenesin.
don't suppress a productive cough too much (unless  it is keeping you from getting enough rest).
each has slightly different cautions for use.
if you are pregnant, antacids are safe to use for heartburn symptoms.
products such as chlorpheniramine (chlor-trimeton) and diphenhydramine  (benadryl) are single-ingredient antihistamine products.
a nonproductive cough does not produce  sputum.
some antacids have a lot of salt (sodium).
use of antihistamines to treat the stuffiness of a cold will often thicken  the mucus, making it harder to get rid of.
there are many other ways to treat constipation, such as drinking more  water.
- do not take nsaids if you have had an allergic reaction to this type of medicine in the past.
saline  nose drops are not decongestants but may help keep nasal tissues moist so the  tissues can filter air.
nonprescription medicines and products overview a nonprescription medicine—sometimes called an over-the-counter, or  otc, medicine—is any drug that you can buy without a doctor's  prescription.
- read and follow all the instructions on the medicine bottle and box carefully before giving your child ibuprofen.
- a - b - c - d - e - f - g - h - i - j - k - l - m - n - o - p - q - r - s - t - u - v - w - x - y - z list all categories kids health topics - for kids - for teens - for parents learning resources - find classes / events - watch educational videos - locations & doctors - search for a doctor by last name specialty locations - find a sanford health location select state california iowa minnesota nebraska north dakota oklahoma south dakota select community search all locations health information - video library - family health - for kids - family health -
antihistamines may also interact with certain antidepressants, sedatives, and tranquilizers.
some common nonprescription medicines include: antacids and acid reducers.
consult your doctor or pharmacist before taking an antacid if you take  other medicines.
rest and liquids are the best treatment for a cold.
precautions take any laxative or bulking agent with plenty of water or other liquids.
if your child has taken this kind of medicine and  he or she has changes in behavior with nausea and vomiting, call your doctor.
health tools health tools help you make wise health decisions or take action to improve your health.
some cough  preparations contain a large percentage of alcohol, and others contain codeine.
antidiarrheal precautions use antidiarrheals if you have diarrhea for longer than 6 hours.
all drugs are broken down and removed  from the body by the combined action of the liver and kidneys.
products such as coricidin, dristan, and triaminic contain both a decongestant and an antihistamine.
avoid alcohol when taking antihistamines.
avoid these antacids if you have high blood pressure or are on a salt-restricted diet.
acetaminophen (the active ingredient in products such as tylenol) reduces fever and relieves pain.
bulking agents, laxatives, and stool softeners.
available online: http://www.cdc.gov/homeandrecreationalsafety/pdf/poison-issue-brief.pdf.
regular use of laxatives may change your body's ability to absorb vitamin d  andcalcium.
if your kidneys  are not working correctly, it is possible that too much of the drug will build  up in your body.
if you are pregnant, check with your doctor or pharmacist before using a decongestant.
they can also affect your coordination, even when they do not make  you drowsy.
the following tips will help you use common  nonprescription drugs wisely and safely.
in some cases, you may find that you don't need to take them at all.
©2012 sanford health.
if you use these medicines, always follow the directions about how much to use based on age and in some cases weight.
if aspirin upsets your stomach, try a coated brand, such as ecotrin.
learn what ingredients are in each type so that you can avoid any adverse effects.
many of these types of antacids contain simethicone to help break down gas bubbles in your stomach.
loperamide (theactive ingredient in products such as imodium a-d and  pepto diarrhea control) is an example of this type of preparation.
- calcium carbonate antacids (such as tums and alka-mints) are sometimes used as calcium supplements.
it is usually best to take only single-ingredient allergy or cold preparations, instead of those containing manyactive ingredients.
- newer, second-generation antihistamines (such as cetirizine and loratadine).
credits by healthwise staff primary medical reviewer e. gregory thompson, md - internal medicine
one screening could save your life.
many of the newer antihistamines  cause less drowsiness than older antihistamines or cause no drowsiness at all.
phm., pharmd - pharmacy
read and carefully follow the  instructions included with the package.
antihistamines antihistamines dry up nasal secretions and are commonly used to treat allergy symptoms and itching.
antacids and acid reducers antacids are taken to relieve heartburn or indigestion caused by excess  stomach acid.
these drugs can be very helpful when used properly but can cause serious  problems if used incorrectly.
read and carefully follow the instructions included with the package.
some common nonprescription medicines include: - antacids and acid reducers.
also consult your doctor if you have ulcers or kidney problems.
if you are on a low-salt diet, talk with your doctor or pharmacist before  choosing an antacid.
it's generally best if you don't try  to stop (suppress) a productive cough.
do not use antacids for more than 2 weeks unless you have talked with your  doctor about taking them on a long-term basis.
- aspirin: should i take daily aspirin to prevent a heart attack or stroke?
- talk to your doctor before you give fever medicine to a baby who is 3 months of age or younger.
they may also cause constipation.
it  also relieves minor itching and reduces swelling and inflammation.
ask your pharmacist for help in finding a nonprescription drug best suited to your needs.
examples include maalox, mylanta, and riopan.
antispasmodic antidiarrheal products slow the spasms of the  intestine.
decongestant precautions - check the label before you use these medicines.
pain relievers there are dozens of pain-relief products.
your use of this information means that you agree to theterms of use.
all drugs are broken down and removed from the body by the combined action of the liver and kidneys.
they may not be safe for young children,  so check the label first.
- cold and allergy remedies.
employee login - privacy of health information - privacy statement - terms & conditions - fargo region - sioux falls region - sanfordlearn
drink extra fluids when taking antihistamines.
when you buy pain relievers, keep in mind that generic products are  chemically equivalent to more expensive brand-name products, and they usually  work equally well.
this information does not replace the advice of a doctor.
- antihistamines can cause problems for some people with health problems such as asthma, glaucoma, epilepsy, or an enlarged prostate.
ask your  pharmacist for help in finding a nonprescription drug best suited to your  needs.
they change the tone and feeling in the  large intestine.
they belong to a class of drugs callednonsteroidal  anti-inflammatory drugs (nsaids).
if you are pregnant, check with your doctor or pharmacist before using an antihistamine.
- because aspirin can increase the risk of bleeding, it is not recommended for new injuries.
use thesetips on how to avoid common medicine problems.
don't suppress a productive cough too much (unless it is keeping you from getting enough rest).
some cough preparations contain a large percentage of alcohol, and others contain codeine.
there are two kinds of cough medicines: - expectorants help thin the mucus and make it easier to cough mucus up when you have a productive cough.
these may make you sleepy or make it harder for you to  concentrate.
for more information, see the topicmigraine headaches.
- do not take laxatives regularly.
phm., pharmd - pharmacy last revised july 6, 2011 - top of page - next section: health tools - previous section: overview - top of page - next section: antacids and acid reducers - previous section: health tools - top of page - next section: bulking agents, stool softeners, and
aspirin precautions keep all aspirin out of children's reach.
it is usually best to take only single-ingredient allergy or cold  preparations, instead of those containing manyactive ingredients.
if you are pregnant, check with your doctor or pharmacist before using a cough preparation.
many of these types of antacids contain  simethicone to help break down gas bubbles in your stomach.
to avoid constipation, stop taking antidiarrheal medicines as soon as stools thicken.
decongestants can be taken orally or used as nose drops or sprays.
cough preparations may also interact with sedatives, certain  antidepressants, and other medicines.
if  aspirin upsets your stomach, try a coated brand, such as ecotrin.
stimulant laxatives change the tone and feeling in the large intestine, and you can become dependent on using laxatives all the time to have a bowel movement.
magnesium compounds (such as phillips' milk of magnesia) may cause  diarrhea.
unintentional drug poisoning in the united states.
this is to make sure a young baby's fever is not a sign of a serious illness.
and you can become dependent on using them all the time to  have a bowel movement.
- aluminum-based antacids (such as amphojel) are less potent and work more slowly than other products do.
aspirin aspirin is widely used for relieving pain and reducing fever in adults.
- medicine to treat mental health problems.
- cough suppressants can stifle breathing.
tomorrow resources from twitter - contact media relations - search the video library - view the newsroom
you may want to try an antihistamine that doesn't cause drowsiness.
some may cause  calcium loss and should not be taken by women who are past menopause.
aluminum-magnesium antacids are less likely to cause constipation or  diarrhea than are aluminum-only or magnesium-only antacids.
aspirin, ibuprofen, and naproxen also relieve inflammation.
antihistamines are also found in many cold medicines, often together with a  decongestant.
there are two types of antidiarrheal drugs, those that thicken the stool  and those that slow intestinal spasms.
- suppressants control or suppress the cough reflex and work best for a dry, hacking cough that keeps you awake.
read the label so you know what the ingredients are.
- consult your doctor or pharmacist before taking an antacid if you take other medicines.
bulking agents, stool softeners, and laxatives there are four types of products used to prevent or treat constipation:  bulking agents, stool softeners, osmotic laxatives, and stimulant laxatives.
if you are or could be pregnant, do not take any kind of pain reliever unless your doctor has told you to.
a productive cough produces phlegm or mucus (sputum).
to learn more visit healthwise.org © 1995-2011 healthwise, incorporated.
oral  decongestants (pills) provide longer relief, but they cause more side effects.
they can cause fluid buildup.
migraines: regular, low-dose aspirin use may reduce the frequency of migraine headaches.
- read and carefully follow all the instructions on the medicine bottle and box before giving your child acetaminophen.
decongestants decongestants make breathing easier by shrinking swollen mucous membranes  in the nose, allowing air to pass through.
avoid these antacids if you have high blood pressure or  are on a salt-restricted diet.
don't use medicated nasal sprays or drops more than 3 times a day or for  more than 3 days in a row.
phone: 1-888-info-fda (1-888-463-6332)
look for suppressant medicines containing dextromethorphan.
if you  have kidney problems, check with your doctor before using aluminum-based  antacids.
to help prevent  taking a high dose, follow what the label says or what your doctor told you.
stool softeners can be most effective if you drink plenty of water throughout the day.
carefully read the label of any nonprescription drug you use, especially if you also take prescription medicines for other health problems.
for more information, see the topicsconstipation, age 12 and older and  constipation, age 11 and younger.
water and other liquids, such as fruit juices, are good cough syrups.
learn what ingredients are  in each type so that you can avoid any adverse effects.
ask your doctor if your child younger than 12 should take these medicines.
sprays and drops provide rapid but temporary relief.
bulking agents, such as bran or psyllium (found in metamucil, for  example) ease constipation by increasing the volume of stool and making it  easier to pass.
you can make a simple and soothing cough syrup at home by mixing 1 part lemon juice with 2 parts honey.
- aluminum-magnesium antacids are less likely to cause constipation or diarrhea than are aluminum-only or magnesium-only antacids.
cough preparations may also interact with sedatives, certain antidepressants, and other medicines.
so it can be coughed up  more easily.
sodium bicarbonate antacids (such as alka-seltzer and bromo seltzer)
some products contain both thickening and antispasmodic ingredients.
sprays and drops are  less likely to interact with other drugs than oral decongestants are.
if you are pregnant, always check with your pharmacist or doctor before using any nonprescription medicine, to make sure it is safe to use during pregnancy.
- read the label so you know what the ingredients are.
during pregnancy it is okay to use antacids that have calcium carbonate (such as tums).
not everyone needs the same amount of medicine.
decongestants may also interact with some drugs, such as  certain antidepressants and high blood pressure medicines.
- ask your doctor if your child younger than 12 should take these medicines.
although it seems  familiar and safe, aspirin is a very powerful drug.
antacid and acid reducer precautions try to eliminate the cause of frequent heartburn instead of taking  antacids regularly.
if you have a problem with the function of your kidneys or liver, you  should be careful with using antacids.
if you are pregnant, check with your doctor or pharmacist before using a  decongestant.
they help relieve heartburn.
this may help keep stomach juices from  coming in contact with your esophagus.
stool softeners can be most effective if you  drink plenty of water throughout the day.
- avoid alcohol when taking antihistamines.
saline nose drops are not decongestants but may help keep nasal tissues moist so the tissues can filter air.
but do not use antacids that have sodium bicarbonate (such as alka-seltzer).
there are two types of coughs: productive and nonproductive.
if you take a blood thinner (anticoagulant), such as warfarin, or if you have gout, talk to your doctor before you take aspirin.
related information - allergic rhinitis - choosing a vitamin and mineral supplement - constipation, age 11 and younger - constipation, age 12 and older - coughs, age 11 and younger - coughs, age 12 and older - dealing with medicine side effects and interactions - dehydration - diarrhea, age 11 and younger - diarrhea, age 12 and older - dietary supplements (herbal medicines and natural products) - headaches - heartburn - keeping track of medicines - laxatives - medicines during pregnancy - poisoning - prevent medical errors - quick tips: giving over-the-counter medicines to children - quick tips: taking medicines wisely - respiratory problems, age 11 and younger - respiratory problems, age 12 and older - reye syndrome - your home health center references other works consulted - centers for disease control and prevention (2010).
sprays and drops are less likely to interact with other drugs than oral decongestants are.
for more information, seeacetaminophen use during pregnancy.
antidiarrheal precautions - use antidiarrheals if you have diarrhea for longer than 6 hours.
take other medicines such as ibuprofen or naproxen for the first 2 or 3 days after an injury.
read the package  carefully or ask your pharmacist or doctor to help you choose the best  decongestant for you.
decision points focus on key medical care decisions  that are important to many health problems.
throw aspirin away if it starts to smell like vinegar.
it does not have the anti-inflammatory effect of nsaids, such as aspirin and ibuprofen, but it also does not cause stomach upset and other side effects.
sometimes, though, coughs are severe enough to impair  breathing or prevent rest.
there are two types of antidiarrheal drugs, those that thicken the stool and those that slow intestinal spasms.
most contain either aspirin, ibuprofen, or acetaminophen.
these may make you sleepy or make it harder for you to concentrate.
if you are pregnant, always check with  your pharmacist or doctor before using any nonprescription medicine, to make  sure it is safe to use during pregnancy.
but  do not use antacids that have sodium bicarbonate (such as alka-seltzer).
in general, whether you take medicines for your cold or not, you'll get  better in about a week.
use them with caution if you are older than 60 or if you have chronic respiratory problems.
there are two types: older, first-generation antihistamines (such as chlorpheniramine and  diphenhydramine).
look for suppressant medicines  containing dextromethorphan.
they belong to a class of drugs callednonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (nsaids).
aspirin can irritate the stomach lining, causing bleeding or ulcers.
spanish materials are also available.
they also draw fluids into the intestine from other tissue  and blood vessels.
there are several types of nonprescription acid  reducers on the market.
antibiotics will not help.
antacids and acid reducers antacids are taken to relieve heartburn or indigestion caused by excess stomach acid.
if you are on a low-salt diet, talk with your doctor or pharmacist before choosing an antacid.
by keyword search by category - conditions / diseases - medications - medical tests by topic not sure where to look?
contain baking soda.
cough preparations coughing is your body's way of getting foreign substances and mucus out of yourrespiratory tract.
- high doses may result in aspirin poisoning (salicylism).
- talk to your doctor before taking nsaids if you have: - ulcers or a history of bleeding in your stomach or intestines.
decongestant precautions check the label before you use these medicines.
so it can be coughed up more easily.
decongestants decongestants make breathing easier by shrinking swollen mucous membranes in the nose, allowing air to pass through.
these three drugs, as well as naproxen, relieve  pain and reduce fever.
in some cases, you may find that you  don't need to take them at all.
this extra fluid in the intestines makes the stool softer  and easier to pass.
stimulant laxatives (such as correctol, ex-lax, and senokot) make stool move faster through the intestines by irritating the lining of the intestines.
stop taking aspirin and call a doctor if any of these symptoms occur: - ringing in the ears - visual disturbances - nausea - dizziness - rapid, deep breathing - if you are pregnant, check with your doctor or pharmacist before taking a pain reliever.
high doses may result in aspirin poisoning (salicylism).
stimulant laxatives (such as correctol, ex-lax, and senokot) make  stool move faster through the intestines by irritating the lining of the  intestines.
they  help relieve heartburn.
for more information, see the topicheartburn.
if you need help having regular bowel movements, use a  bulking agent.
other pain relievers ibuprofen (the active ingredient in products such as advil and motrin) andnaproxen (in products such as aleve) are other nsaids.
antispasmodic antidiarrheal products slow the spasms of the intestine.
if you do give these medicines to a child, always  follow the directions about how much to give based on the child’s age and  weight.
cough preparations coughing is your body's way of getting foreign substances and mucus out of  yourrespiratory tract.
aspirin increases the risk of reye syndrome in children.
antacid and acid reducer precautions - try to eliminate the cause of frequent heartburn instead of taking antacids regularly.
am mar 13 find a location find a doctor my sanford chart newsletter signup sign up follow us!
read the package carefully or ask your pharmacist or doctor to help you choose one that will not cause problems.
there are two kinds of cough medicines: expectorants help thin the mucus and make it easier to cough mucus  up when you have a productive cough.
- medicine for arthritis or diabetes.
- regular use of laxatives may change your body's ability to absorb vitamin d andcalcium.
aspirin comes as adult-strength (325 mg) or low-dose (81 mg).
read the package carefully, or ask your pharmacist or doctor to help you choose.
they  help soothe the throat and also moisten and thin mucus
the following tips will help you use common nonprescription drugs wisely and safely.
for more information, seeuse of ibuprofen in young children.
antacids may interfere with the absorption and action of some prescription medicines.
other places to get help organization food and drug administration (fda): consumer health information 10903
cold and allergy remedies
- drink extra fluids when taking antihistamines.
talk with your doctor orpharmacist to find out what may work best for you.
be sure to read the package instructions carefully, or ask apharmacist before giving any product to an infant or young child.
many of the newer antihistamines cause less drowsiness than older antihistamines or cause no drowsiness at all.
- aspirin can irritate the stomach lining, causing bleeding or ulcers.
use them with caution if you are  older than 60 or if you have chronic respiratory problems.
calcium carbonate antacids (such as tums and alka-mints) are sometimes  used as calcium supplements.
long-term use is not recommended.
avoid alcohol if you are taking medicine with dextromethorphan in it.
all specialties - cancer - children's - heart - orthopedics & sports - women's - search services by keyword search view all medical services - find services alphabetically view all medical services - a - b - c - d - e - f - g - h - i - j - k - l - m - n - o - p - q - r - s - t - u - v - w - x - y - z - patients & visitors - - email a patient - newborns - gift shop - volunteer opportunities - caringbridge - contact us - patient services - pay your bill - pre-register - patient information - view current wait times - my sanford chart - health information - search the healthwise information database
- medicine to decrease swelling (water pills).
most contain either aspirin,  ibuprofen, or acetaminophen.
these drugs can be very helpful when used properly but can cause serious problems if used incorrectly.
they help soothe the throat and also moisten and thin mucus
because of the danger of side effects and the interactions aspirin may have with other medicines, do not try these uses of aspirin without a doctor's supervision.
antihistamines may  also interact with certain antidepressants, sedatives, and tranquilizers.
- talk to your doctor before using nsaids if you take: - blood thinners, such as warfarin, heparin, or aspirin.
- read and follow all label directions.
there are two types: - older, first-generation antihistamines (such as chlorpheniramine and diphenhydramine).
and if you take more than the normal or recommended amount, overdose may occur.
be careful with cold medicines.
this can be given to  children 1 year and older.
some may cause calcium loss and should not be taken by women who are past menopause.
do not take laxatives regularly.
read and follow all label directions.
you may want to try an antihistamine that doesn't cause  drowsiness.
how this information was developed to help you make better health decisions.
- drink extra fluids when you are taking cold medicines.
for more information on diarrhea symptoms and treatment, see the topics  diarrhea, age 12 and older and diarrhea, age 11 and younger.
regular use of bulking agents is safe and helps make them more effective.
these three drugs, as well as naproxen, relieve pain and reduce fever.
loperamide (theactive ingredient in products such as imodium a-d and pepto diarrhea control) is an example of this type of preparation.
antihistamine precautions - don't give antihistamines to your child unless you've checked with the doctor first.
like aspirin, these drugs relieve pain and reduce fever and inflammation.
if your child or teen gets chickenpox or flu, do not treat the symptoms with over-the-counter medicines that contain bismuth subsalicylate (such as kaopectate and pepto-bismol).
sanford health - for medical professionals - careers - contact us search item# or keyword search - medical services - centers of excellence view
they also help relieve runny nose and postnasal drip, which can cause a sore throat.
they may not be safe for young children, so check the label first.
continued use will cause a "rebound effect " in which your mucous membranes swell up more than before you used the spray.
- when you take an antihistamine that makes you drowsy, the drowsiness usually decreases with continued use.
- aspirin increases the risk of reye syndrome in children.
if your child or teen gets chickenpox or flu, do not treat the symptoms  with over-the-counter medicines that contain bismuth subsalicylate (such as  kaopectate and pepto-bismol).
examples include h2 blockers (such as famotidine and ranitidine) and proton pump inhibitors (such as lansoprazole and omeprazole).
in addition to relieving pain and inflammation, aspirin is effective against many other ailments.
avoid cold remedies that combine medicines to treat many symptoms.
antihistamines antihistamines dry up nasal secretions and are commonly used to treat  allergy symptoms and itching.
drink plenty of water when you use this type of laxative.
- high blood pressure.
these drugs can interact with other medicines and can sometimes cause serious health problems.
health tools health tools help you make wise health decisions or take action to improve  your health.
during pregnancy it is okay to use antacids that have  calcium carbonate (such as tums).
for more information, see: - coronary artery disease.
- magnesium compounds (such as phillips' milk of magnesia) may cause diarrhea.
they can also affect your coordination, even when they do not make you drowsy.
acid reducers decrease the amount of acid produced by the stomach.
- kidney, liver, or heart disease.
ask your pharmacist to advise you.
do not use these medicines if you have bloody diarrhea, a high fever, or othersigns of serious illness.
when you buy pain relievers, keep in mind that generic products are chemically equivalent to more expensive brand-name products, and they usually work equally well.
for cold symptoms, home treatment and perhaps a decongestant will probably be more helpful.
they may not be safe for  young children.
- sodium bicarbonate antacids (such as alka-seltzer and bromo seltzer)
they  can cause fluid buildup.
aspirin: should i take  daily aspirin to prevent a heart attack or stroke?
some  products contain both thickening and antispasmodic ingredients.
do not take nsaids if you have had an allergic reaction to this type of  medicine in the past.
this helps bulk  up the stool and make it more firm.
healthwise, healthwise for every health decision, and the healthwise logo are trademarks of healthwise, incorporated.
if you are pregnant, check with your doctor or pharmacist before using a  cough preparation.
a nonproductive cough does not produce sputum.
products such as coricidin, dristan, and triaminic contain both a  decongestant and an antihistamine.
but nonprescription medicines help relieve some cold  symptoms, such as nasal congestion and cough.
cough preparation precautions - cough preparations can cause problems for people who have certain health problems, such as asthma, heart disease, high blood pressure, or an enlarged prostate (bph).
these have fewer side effects.
stimulant  laxatives change the tone and feeling in the large intestine, and you can  become dependent on using laxatives all the time to have a bowel movement.
to help prevent taking a high dose, follow what the label says or what your doctor told you.
this extra fluid in the intestines makes the stool softer and easier to pass.
it also relieves minor itching and reduces swelling and inflammation.
topics include the following: medicines, food and nutrition, medical devices, cosmetics, and animal health.
fit major medical centers - sanford usd medical center sioux falls - sanford medical center fargo general information - fargo, nd - 800-437-4010 - sioux falls, sd - 605-333-1000 nurse by phone - ask-a-nurse - fargo, nd - 800-821-5167 - 701-234-5000 - healthformation - sioux falls, sd - 800-445-5788 - 605-333-4444 physician finder - fargo, nd - 877-234-4240 - 701-234-5570 - sioux falls, sd - 877-945-5678 latest sanford health news view all rss newsfeed - sanford research takes its work to international level - sanford health adds 13 radiologists - sanford health recognized for integration - sanford partners with ndsu on research - 12th annual cares for kids radiothon starts
newer, second-generation antihistamines (such as cetirizine and  loratadine).
there are several types of nonprescription acid reducers on the market.
also like aspirin, they can cause nausea, stomach irritation, and heartburn.
talk with  your doctor orpharmacist to find out what may work best for you.
this can lead to weakened bones.
you can make a simple and soothing cough syrup at home by mixing 1 part  lemon juice with 2 parts honey.
- decongestants can cause problems for people who have certain health problems, such as heart disease, high blood pressure, glaucoma, diabetes, or an overactive thyroid.
if your child has taken this kind of medicine and he or she has changes in behavior with nausea and vomiting, call your doctor.
this can be given to children 1 year and older.
for  cold symptoms, home treatment and perhaps a decongestant will probably be more  helpful.
read  the package carefully or ask your pharmacist or doctor to help you choose one  that will not cause problems.
if you are pregnant, check with your doctor or pharmacist before using an  antihistamine.
allergy symptoms, especially runny nose, often respond to antihistamines.
regular use of bulking agents is safe and helps make them more  effective.
do not  use these medicines if you have bloody diarrhea, a high fever, or othersigns of  serious illness.
if you have kidney problems, check with your doctor before using aluminum-based antacids.
antihistamines are also found in many cold medicines, often together with a decongestant.
oral decongestants (pills) provide longer relief, but they cause more side effects.
antihistamine precautions don't give antihistamines to your child unless you've checked with the  doctor first.
suppressants control or suppress the cough reflex and work best for  a dry, hacking cough that keeps you awake.
do not give aspirin to anyone younger than 20 unless your doctor tells you to do so.
osmotic laxatives, such as fleet phospho-soda, milk of magnesia, or miralax, and nonabsorbable sugars (such as lactulose or sorbitol), hold fluids in the intestine.
this increases your risk of stomach bleeding.
do not exceed the dosage limits, and follow the instructions on the package if you have health problems that may make it unsafe for you to take the usual dosage of a product.
aspirin, ibuprofen, and naproxen also relieve  inflammation.
read the package carefully, or ask your  pharmacist or doctor to help you choose.
they change the tone and feeling in the large intestine.
stop taking aspirin and call a doctor if any of these symptoms occur: ringing in the ears
for more information, seeuse of acetaminophen in young children.
aluminum-based antacids (such as amphojel) are less potent and work more  slowly than other products do.
heart attack and stroke: aspirin in low but regular doses may help prevent heart attacks and strokes in certain people.
do not give  aspirin to anyone younger than 20 unless your doctor tells you to do so.
if you take a blood thinner (anticoagulant), such as warfarin, or if you  have gout, talk to your doctor before you take aspirin.
cough preparation precautions cough preparations can cause problems for people who have certain health  problems, such as asthma, heart disease, high blood pressure, or an enlarged  prostate (bph).
- stomach pain, upset stomach, or heartburn that lasts or comes back.
- long-term use is not recommended.
decongestants may also interact with some drugs, such as certain antidepressants and high blood pressure medicines.
it's generally best if you don't try to stop (suppress) a productive cough.
if you do give these medicines to a child, always follow the directions about how much to give based on the child’s age and weight.
specialist medical reviewer margaret hetherington, b.sc.
- quick links - important numbers - newsroom general information - current wait times - about sanford health - initiatives and priorities - contact us external sites - edith sanford foundation - sanford health research - sanford health plan - sanford health foundation - sanford & webmd
- bulking agents, laxatives, and stool softeners.
thickening mixtures (such as psyllium) absorb water.
stool softeners (such as colace and docusate calcium) soften the stool, making it easier to pass.
because aspirin can increase the risk of bleeding, it is not recommended  for new injuries.
antacids may interfere with the absorption and action of some  prescription medicines.
cough suppressants can stifle breathing.
if you have a problem with the function of your kidneys or liver, you should be careful with using antacids.
stool softeners (such as colace and docusate calcium) soften the  stool, making it easier to pass.
some medicines should only be used by adults or older children.
and you can become dependent on using them all the time to have a bowel movement.
also consult your doctor if you have ulcers or kidney  problems.
be sure to  read the package instructions carefully, or ask apharmacist before giving any  product to an infant or young child.
if you use these medicines, always follow the directions about how much to  use based on age and in some cases weight.
look for expectorants containing  guaifenesin.
for more information, see the topicsconstipation, age 12 and older and constipation, age 11 and younger.
examples include h2 blockers (such as famotidine and  ranitidine) and proton pump inhibitors (such as lansoprazole and omeprazole).
- a habit of drinking more than 3 alcoholic drinks a day.
there are many choices.
examples include  maalox, mylanta, and riopan.
nsaid precautions (also see aspirin precautions) - do not use an nsaid for longer than 10 days without talking to your doctor.
acetaminophen precautions - the product's package label will tell you how many milligrams (mg) of medicine are in each pill or liquid dose, how much you should take; and how often you should take it.
new hampshire avenue silver spring, md 20993
- avoid alcohol if you are taking medicine with dextromethorphan in it.
not everyone needs the same amount  of medicine.