chromaffin cells produce several of the body's pain-killing substances and are part of the adrenal medulla, which sits on top of the kidney.
it is  used for postoperative pain, cancer pain, and the pain of childbirth.
if this work can be translated  clinically, humans might be able to benefit from similar compounds introduced,  for example, through lumbar (spinal) puncture.
scientists are working to develop potent pain-killing drugs that act on  receptors for the chemicalacetylcholine.
or you may recognize it as a sharp pierce in your back  after you lift something heavy.
return to top hope for the future thousands of years ago, ancient peoples attributed pain to spirits and  treated it with mysticism and incantations.
some patients who have had an injury to the spinal cord experience intense pain ranging from tingling to burning and, commonly, both.
once in contact with capsaicin, vanilloid receptors open and pain signals are sent from the peripheral nociceptor and through central nervous system circuits to the brain.
psychological treatment can also help patients learn about the physiological changes produced by pain.
peripheral nerve stimulation uses electrodes placed surgically on a  carefully selected area of the body.
spinal stenosis causes weakness in the legs and leg pain usually felt while the person is standing up and often relieved by sitting down.
but it was not until the middle ages and well into the renaissance-the 1400s and 1500s-that evidence began to accumulate in support of these theories.
although placebos have no direct effect on the underlying causes of pain, evidence from clinical studies suggests that many pain conditions such as migraine headache, back pain, post-surgical pain, rheumatoid arthritis, angina, and depression sometimes respond well to them.
after trauma, cytokine levels rise in the brain and spinal cord and at the site in the peripheral nervous system where the injury occurred.
the autonomic nervous system controls involuntary functions in the body, like perspiration, blood pressure, heart rate, or heart beat.
the following treatments  are among the most common.
cox-2 inhibitors ("superaspirins") may be particularly  effective for individuals with arthritis.
neuropathic pain is a type of pain that can result from injury to  nerves, either in the peripheral or central nervous system.
estrogen, therefore, may  act as a sort of pain switch, turning on the ability to recognize pain.
the spinal cord acts as a sort  of relay center where the pain signal can be blocked, enhanced, or otherwise  modified before it is relayed to the brain.
but it was not until the middle ages and well into the renaissance-the  1400s and 1500s-that evidence began to accumulate in support of these theories.
this phenomenon is known as plasticity.
for example, a  class of painkillers called kappa-opioids is named after one of several opioid  receptors to which they bind, the kappa-opioid receptor, and they include the  compoundsnalbuphine (nubain®) and butorphanol (stadol®).
in some cases, a drug  called guanethidine is administered intravenously in order to accomplish the  block.
this emphasizes that the experience of pain involves a strong emotional component as well as the sensory experience, namely the intensity of the stimulus.
surgery may take the form of a nerve block or it may involve an operation to relieve pain from a ruptured disc.
they include codeine and perhaps the most well-known narcotic of all,morphine.
chiropractic refers to hand manipulation of the spine, usually for  relief of back pain, and is a treatment option that continues to grow in  popularity among many people who simply seek relief from back disorders.
morphine can be administered in a variety of  forms, including a pump for patient self-administration.
the goal of pain management is to improve function, enabling individuals to  work, attend school, or participate in other day-to-day activities.
they also are more likely to marshal a variety of resources-coping skills, support, and distraction-with which to deal with their pain.
interestingly,  when patients undergo hypnosis so that the unpleasantness of a painful stimulus  is not experienced, activity in some, but not all, brain areas is reduced.
placebos offer some individuals pain relief although whether and how they have an effect is mysterious and somewhat controversial.
hypnosis may result in relief of pain by acting on chemicals in the nervous system, slowing impulses.
ags panel members recommend that, whenever possible, patients use alternatives to aspirin, ibuprofen, and other nsaids because of the drugs' side effects, including stomach irritation and gastrointestinal bleeding.
our understanding of phantom pain has improved tremendously in recent years.
return to top information resources brain public information and liaison branch national institute of dental and  craniofacial research national institutes of health american chronic pain association (acpa)
the first set gives the patient a mild shock that  stimulates the nerve that runs to that muscle.
vascular disease or injury-such as vasculitis or inflammation of  blood vessels, coronary artery disease, and circulatory problems-all have the  potential to cause pain.
ibuprofen is a member of the aspirin family of analgesics, the so-called nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (see below).
cyp2d6 is currently under investigation for its role in pain.
counseling can give a patient suffering from pain much needed  support, whether it is derived from family, group, or individual counseling.
chronic pain is widely believed to represent disease  itself.
these disorders are characterized by joint pain in the extremities.
discs protect the spine by  absorbing shock, but they tend to degenerate over time and may sometimes  rupture.
people born genetically insensate  to pain-that is, individuals who cannot feel pain-have a mutation in part of a  gene that plays a role in cell survival.
these descriptions are part of what is called the pain history, taken by the physician during the preliminary examination of a patient with pain.
primarily these include: return to top how is pain treated?
some children may be cuddled and comforted, while others may  be encouraged to tough it out and to dismiss their pain.
return to top how is pain treated?
r.i.c.e.-rest, ice, compression, and e levation-are four components prescribed by many orthopedists, coaches, trainers, nurses, and other professionals for temporary muscle or joint conditions, such as sprains or strains.
sports injuries are common.
for example, a class of painkillers called kappa-opioids is named after one of several opioid receptors to which they bind, the kappa-opioid receptor, and they include the compoundsnalbuphine (nubain®) and butorphanol (stadol®).
physicians  usually try to treat the condition with analgesics before prescribing these  drugs.
the condition occurs naturally with aging.
cognitive-behavioral therapy involves a wide variety of coping  skills and relaxation methods to help prepare for and cope with pain.
for example, young children may learn to respond to pain based on how they are treated when they experience pain.
the spinal cord acts as a sort of relay center where the pain signal can be blocked, enhanced, or otherwise modified before it is relayed to the brain.
others say placebos relieve pain by stimulating the brain's own analgesics and setting the body's self-healing forces in motion.
pain is a complicated process that involves an intricate interplay between a number of important chemicals found naturally in the brain and spinal cord.
this procedure is most well known for its use during childbirth.
one area of the spinal cord in particular, called thedorsal horn, is important in the reception of pain signals.
ags panel members recommend  that, whenever possible, patients use alternatives to aspirin, ibuprofen, and  other nsaids because of the drugs' side effects, including stomach irritation  and gastrointestinal bleeding.
opioids have a  narcotic effect, that is, they induce sedation as well as pain relief, and some  patients may become physically dependent upon them.
capsaicin is currently available as a prescription or over-the-counter  cream for the treatment of a number of pain conditions, such as shingles.
using "knockout" animal  models-animals genetically engineered to lack a certain gene-scientists are  able to visualize how mutations in genes cause animals to become anxious, make  noise, rear, freeze, or become hypervigilant.
molecular genetics: certain genetic mutations can change pain sensitivity and behavioral responses to pain.
another type of receptor that responds to painful stimuli is called a nociceptor.
exercise has  been proven to help many people with low back pain.
this type of pain generally comes on  suddenly, for example, after trauma or surgery, and may be accompanied by  anxiety or emotional distress.
psychological treatment can also help patients learn about the physiological  changes produced by pain.
it is used for postoperative pain, cancer pain, and the pain of childbirth.
these drugs led to the development of aspirin, to this day the most commonly used pain reliever.
scientists are working toward the development of a morphine-like drug that will have the pain-deadening qualities of morphine but without the drug's negative side effects, such as sedation and the potential for addiction.
investigators are  not certain why kappa-opioids work better in women than men.
temporomandibular disorders are conditions in which the  temporomandibular joint (the jaw) is damaged and/or the muscles used for  chewing and talking become stressed, causing pain.
exercise has come to be a prescribed part of some doctors' treatment  regimes for patients with pain.
sprains, strains, bruises, dislocations,  and fractures are all well-known words in the language of sports.
on this page: introduction: the universal disorder you know it at once.
there is also evidence that tens  can activate subsets of peripheral nerve fibers that can block pain  transmission at the spinal cord level, in much the same way that shaking your  hand can reduce pain.
pain is a complicated process that involves an intricate interplay between  a number of important chemicals found naturally in the brain and spinal cord.
within days of the injections, the targeted neurons, located in the outer layer of the spinal cord along its entire length, absorbed the compound and were neutralized.
ibuprofen is a member of the aspirin family of analgesics, the  so-called nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (see below).
these genetic mutations cause a  disruption or alteration in the processing of pain information as it leaves the  spinal cord and travels to the brain.
whether and how hypnosis works involves  greater insight-and research-into the mechanisms underlying human consciousness.
it is sold over the counter, in a  prescription-strength preparation, and in combination with codeine (also by  prescription).
another common type of  back pain is associated with the discs of the spine, the soft, spongy padding  between the vertebrae (bones) that form the spine.
nonprescription or over-the-counter pain relievers are generally used for mild to moderate pain.
return to top hope for the future thousands of years ago, ancient peoples attributed pain to spirits and treated it with mysticism and incantations.
it is divided into the sympathetic and parasympathetic nervous systems.
sciatica is a painful condition caused by pressure on the sciatic  nerve, the main nerve that branches off the spinal cord and continues down into  the thighs, legs, ankles, and feet.
there is no way to tell how much pain a person has.
scientists are working to develop potent pain-killing drugs that act on receptors for the chemicalacetylcholine.
in fact, for many years, it was sold under highly controlled conditions in cigarette form by the federal government for just that purpose.
although the long-term effects of cox-2 inhibitors are still  being evaluated, they appear to be safe.
in people who undergo an amputation, the representation of the amputated limb is stored in the thalamus.
positron emission tomography (pet), functional magnetic resonance imaging (fmri), and other imaging technologies offer a vivid picture of what is happening in the brain as it processes pain.
it has  never been without controversy, however.
american pain foundation
many investigators are turning their attention to the study of gender  differences and pain.
chiropractic's usefulness as a treatment for back pain is, for the most part, restricted to a select group of individuals with uncomplicated acute low back pain who may derive relief from the massage component of the therapy.
often triggered by trauma or nerve damage, rsds causes the skin of the affected area to become characteristically shiny.
female mice deprived of estrogen during experiments react to stress similarly to male animals.
it is here where injury, damage, and trauma become pain.
investigators have also learned that this receptor plays a role in  the burning type of pain commonly associated with heat, such as the kind you  experience when you touch your finger to a hot stove.
in 1998, the american geriatrics  society (ags) issued guidelines* for the management of pain in older people.
though not prescribed widely, kappa-opioids are currently used for relief  of labor pain and in general work best for short-term pain.
soon, however, better treatments that relieve pain by blocking vanilloid  receptors may arrive in drugstores.
another disabling syndrome is fibromyalgia, a disorder characterized by fatigue, stiffness, joint tenderness, and widespread muscle pain.
in the case of severe pain or pain following surgery, acetaminophen may be combined with codeine.
recently, special tools for measuring pain in children have been developed that, when combined with cues used by parents, help physicians select the most effective treatments.
these cells are thought to help protect the body against tumors.
neuropathic pain can occur in any part of the body and is frequently described as a hot, burning sensation, which can be devastating to the affected individual.
for people who fight every day against the limitations imposed by pain, the work of ninds-supported scientists holds the promise of an even greater understanding of pain in the coming years.
this condition is calledallodynia -a state in which  pain is produced by innocuous stimuli.
millions of americans suffer from arthritic conditions  such as osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis, and gout.
mri  uses magnetic fields and radio waves to differentiate between healthy and  diseased tissue.
individuals can become desensitized to the compound, however, perhaps because of long-term damage to nerve tissue.
these may be applied to increase function, control pain, and speed the patient toward full recovery.
ruptures,  spasms, constriction, or obstruction of blood vessels, as well as a condition  called ischemia in which blood supply to organs, tissues, or limbs is cut off,  can also result in pain.
in 1931, the french medical missionary dr. albert schweitzer wrote, "pain is a more terrible lord of mankind than even death itself."
ion channels are important for transmitting signals through the nerve's membrane.
cyp2d6 is currently under investigation  for its role in pain.
the patient is able to deliver a pulse  of electricity to the spinal cord using a small box-like receiver and an  antenna taped to the skin.
a number of causes, including infection or trauma, can result in  inflammation of this membrane.
it may be the fiery sensation of a burn moments after your finger touches the stove.
in general, hypnosis is used to control physical function  or response, that is, the amount of pain an individual can withstand.
using imaging,  investigators can now see that pain activates at least three or four key areas  of the brain's cortex-the layer of tissue that covers the brain.
in many cases, degeneration or pressure from overexertion can cause a disc to shift or protrude and bulge, causing pressure on a nerve and resultant pain.
nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (nsaids) work  by blocking two enzymes, cyclooxygenase-1 and cyclooxygenase-2, both of which  promote production of hormones calledprostaglandins, which in turn cause  inflammation, fever, and pain.
molecular genetics: certain genetic mutations can change pain  sensitivity and behavioral responses to pain.
normally, nociceptors only respond to strong stimuli such as a  pinch.
arachnoiditis can produce disabling, progressive, and even permanent pain.
the following treatments are among the most common.
in  one study conducted with rats, dr. liebeskind found that, following  experimental surgery, nk cell activity was suppressed, causing the cancer to  spread more rapidly.
scientists, working with support from the ninds, believe the transplants help the animals recover from pain-related cellular damage.
blood vessel walls stretch or dilate during a migraine attack and it is  thought that serotonin plays a complicated role in this process.
hypnosis, first approved for medical use by the american medical  association in 1958, continues to grow in popularity, especially as an adjunct  to pain medication.
defining pain as sharp or dull, constant or  intermittent, burning or aching may give the best clues to the cause of pain.
they work by reducing inflammatory responses in tissues.
improvements in our  understanding of the precise role of cytokines in producing pain, especially  pain resulting from injury, may lead to new classes of drugs that can block the  action of these substances.
one of the most vexing neurological disorders is shingles or herpes zoster, an infection that often causes agonizing pain resistant to treatment.
this procedure is  most well known for its use during childbirth.
"it has no future but itself," wrote the 19th century american poet emily dickinson, speaking about pain.
one objective of investigators working to develop the future generation of pain medications is to take full advantage of the body's pain "switching center" by formulating compounds that will prevent pain signals from being amplified or stop them altogether.
fibromyalgia is a type of  myofascial pain syndrome.
low-power lasers have been used occasionally by some physical therapists as a treatment for pain, but like many other treatments, this method is not without controversy.
or is there another explanation, such as differences between men  and women in their perception of pain?
when exposed to mild pain, these mice react in the same way as mice that carry the missing gene.
physicians, however, do have a number of technologies they use to find the cause of pain.
during experiments, mice with blocked glutamate receptors show a reduction in  their responses to pain.
they may be caused by infection or autoimmune dysfunction and are sometimes associated with connective tissue disorders, such as lupus and rheumatoid arthritis.
for that reason, the procedure  should be reserved for a select group of patients and should only be performed  by skilled surgeons.
there is  the pain of childbirth, the pain of a heart attack, and the pain that sometimes  follows amputation of a limb.
among the many neuropathic pain conditions arediabetic neuropathy (which results from nerve damage secondary to vascular problems that occur  with diabetes);reflex sympathetic dystrophy syndrome, which can follow  injury;phantom limb and post-amputation pain, which can result  from the surgical removal of a limb;postherpetic neuralgia, which can  occur after an outbreak of shingles; andcentral pain syndrome, which can  result from trauma to the brain or spinal cord.
opioids are derived from the poppy plant and are among the oldest  drugs known to humankind.
before long, anesthesia-both general and regional-was refined and applied during surgery.
headaches affect millions of americans.
a small number of people genetically lack the enzyme cyp2d6; when given codeine, these individuals do not get pain relief.
morphine and methadone are opioid narcotics (such drugs end in ine or one) that are sometimes used for regional analgesia and are administered as an injection.
pain is a common symptom of many skin disorders, even the most common rashes.
although acetaminophen may have some anti-inflammatory effects, it is generally distinguished from the traditional nsaids.
analgesic refers to the class of drugs that includes most painkillers, such as aspirin, acetaminophen, and ibuprofen.
capsaicin is a chemical found in chili peppers that is also a  primary ingredient in pain-relieving creams.
women, many experts now agree, recover more quickly from pain, seek help more quickly for their pain, and are less likely to allow pain to control their lives.
although highly toxic, epibatidine is a potent analgesic and,  surprisingly, resembles the chemical nicotine found in cigarettes.
their pain is  severe and is extremely difficult to treat effectively.
the a to z of pain hundreds of pain syndromes or disorders make up the spectrum of pain.
however, when tissues become injured or inflamed, as with a sunburn or infection, they release chemicals that make nociceptors much more sensitive and cause them to transmit pain signals in response to even gentle stimuli such as breeze or a caress.
the explosion of knowledge about human genetics is helping scientists who work in the field of drug development.
antidepressants are sometimes used for the treatment of pain and,  along with neuroleptics and lithium, belong to a category of drugs called  psychotropic drugs.
although the long-term effects of cox-2 inhibitors are still being evaluated, they appear to be safe.
the type and  severity of pain associated with neuralgia vary widely.
morphine and methadone are  opioid narcotics (such drugs end in ine or one) that are sometimes used for  regional analgesia and are administered as an injection.
surgical procedures include discectomy, laminectomy, or spinal fusion.
endorphins and enkephalins are other natural painkillers.
the vertebrae, discs, and spinal cord the nervous systems phantom pain: how does the brain feel?
spinal stenosis refers to a narrowing of the canal surrounding the  spinal cord.
they include the olfactory (i), optic (ii), oculomotor (iii), trochlear (iv),  trigeminal (v), abducens (vi), facial (vii), vestibulocochlear (viii),  glossopharyngeal (ix), vagus (x), accessory (xi), and hypoglossal (xii) nerves.
drugs for migraine include the triptans: sumatriptan (imitrix®), naratriptan (amerge®), and zolmitriptan (zomig®).
nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (nsaids) (including aspirin and ibuprofen) are widely prescribed and sometimes called non-narcotic or non-opioid analgesics.
sympathectomy, also called sympathetic blockade, in which a  drug or an agent such as guanethidine is used to eliminate pain in a specific  area (a limb, for example).
in the 19th century, pain came to dwell under a new domain-science-paving the way for advances in pain therapy.
nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (nsaids) work by blocking two enzymes, cyclooxygenase-1 and cyclooxygenase-2, both of which promote production of hormones calledprostaglandins, which in turn cause inflammation, fever, and pain.
there is also pain accompanying cancer and the  pain that follows severe trauma, such as that associated with head and spinal  cord injuries.
some children may be cuddled and comforted, while others may be encouraged to tough it out and to dismiss their pain.
once  in contact with capsaicin, vanilloid receptors open and pain signals are sent  from the peripheral nociceptor and through central nervous system circuits to  the brain.
using a special electronic machine, the patient is trained to become aware of, to follow, and to gain control over certain bodily functions, including muscle tension, heart rate, and skin temperature.
neurotransmitters: just as mutations in genes may affect behavior, they may also affect a number of neurotransmitters involved in the control of pain.
how  hypnosis works is not fully understood.
repetitive stress injuries are muscular conditions that result from  repeated motions performed in the course of normal work or other daily  activities.
physicians reach a diagnosis by listening to the patient's description of the symptoms and by performing a simple examination of the facial muscles and the temporomandibular joint.
in many cases, degeneration or  pressure from overexertion can cause a disc to shift or protrude and bulge,  causing pressure on a nerve and resultant pain.
fortunately, most cancer pain can be treated to help minimize discomfort and stress to the patient.
because surgery can result in scar tissue formation that may cause additional problems, patients are well advised to seek a second opinion before proceeding.
the type and severity of pain associated with neuralgia vary widely.
fibromyalgia is a type of myofascial pain syndrome.
now, using  imaging techniques such as positron emission tomography (pet) and magnetic  resonance imaging (mri), scientists can actually visualize increased activity  in the brain's cortex when an individual feels phantom pain.
now, using imaging techniques such as positron emission tomography (pet) and magnetic resonance imaging (mri), scientists can actually visualize increased activity in the brain's cortex when an individual feels phantom pain.
morphine and other opioid drugs work by locking on to these opioid receptors, switching on pain-inhibiting pathways or circuits, and thereby blocking pain.
on this page: a brief history of pain the two faces of pain: acute and chronic the a to z of pain how is pain diagnosed?
patients receiving morphine also face  the problem of morphine tolerance, meaning that over time they require higher  doses of the drug to achieve the same pain relief.
carbamazepine in  particular is used to treat a number of painful conditions, including  trigeminal neuralgia.
the animals' behavior was completely normal; they no longer exhibited signs of pain following injury or had an exaggerated pain response.
control of pain associated with surgery includes presurgical preparation and careful monitoring of the patient during and after the procedure.
in some cases, the results of an operation are remarkable.
many pharmaceutical companies are working to synthesize these substances in  laboratories as future medications.
it is useful to distinguish between two basic types of pain, acute and  chronic, and they differ greatly.
at its worst, however,  pain robs us of our productivity, our well-being, and, for many of us suffering  from extended illness, our very lives.
within a week or so, rats receiving  these transplants cease to exhibit telltale signs of pain.
back pain that spreads to the leg is called  sciatica and is a very common condition (see below).
developing better pain treatments is the primary goal of all pain research being conducted by these institutes.
people born genetically insensate to pain-that is, individuals who cannot feel pain-have a mutation in part of a gene that plays a role in cell survival.
interestingly, when patients undergo hypnosis so that the unpleasantness of a painful stimulus is not experienced, activity in some, but not all, brain areas is reduced.
prostaglandins stimulate nerves at the site of injury and cause inflammation and fever.
the brain's ability to restructure itself, to change and adapt following injury, is called plasticity (see section on plasticity).
hypnosis, first approved for medical use by the american medical association in 1958, continues to grow in popularity, especially as an adjunct to pain medication.
this condition is called central pain syndrome or, if the damage is in the thalamus (the brain's  center for processing bodily sensations),thalamic pain syndrome.
withnerve conduction studies the doctor uses two sets of  electrodes (similar to those used during an electrocardiogram) that are placed  on the skin over the muscles.
biofeedback is often used in combination with other treatment methods,  generally without side effects.
marijuana as a painkiller, marijuana or, by its latin name, cannabis, continues to remain highly controversial.
burn pain can be profound and poses an extreme challenge to the  medical community.
polymyositis, dermatomyositis , and inclusion body myositis are painful disorders characterized by muscle inflammation.
the procedure's use is extremely limited, in part because some patients may have a life-threatening allergic reaction to chymopapain.
the idea of using receptors as gateways for pain drugs is a novel idea, supported by experiments involving substance p. investigators have been able to isolate a tiny population of neurons, located in the spinal cord, that together form a major portion of the pathway responsible for carrying persistent pain signals to the brain.
there are the most benign, fleeting sensations of pain, such as a pin prick.
they include: sciatica is a painful condition caused by pressure on the sciatic nerve, the main nerve that branches off the spinal cord and continues down into the thighs, legs, ankles, and feet.
polymyositis, dermatomyositis , and inclusion body myositis are painful disorders characterized by  muscle inflammation.
chronic pain persists over a longer period of time than acute pain and is  resistant to most medical treatments.
prescription pain relievers, sold through a pharmacy under the direction of a physician, are used for more moderate to severe pain.
shingles and other painful disorders affect the skin.
other important receptors in pain transmission are  opiate-like receptors.
such patients are sensitive to hot and cold temperatures and touch.
there are many different names for the procedure, depending on the technique or agent used.
treatments for phantom pain may include analgesics, anticonvulsants, and other types of drugs; nerve blocks; electrical stimulation; psychological counseling, biofeedback, hypnosis, and acupuncture; and, in rare instances, surgery.
the patient is then able to deliver an  electrical current as needed to the affected area, using an antenna and  transmitter.
surprisingly, the brain's cells can be stimulated by  other body parts, often those located closest to the missing limb.
extensive animal studies will be required to learn if this technique might be of value to humans with severe pain.
morphine and other opioid drugs work by locking on to  these opioid receptors, switching on pain-inhibiting pathways or circuits, and  thereby blocking pain.
cancer pain can accompany the growth of a tumor, the treatment of  cancer, or chronic problems related to cancer's permanent effects on the body.
antimigraine drugs include the triptans- sumatriptan (imitrex®), naratriptan (amerge®), and zolmitriptan (zomig®)-and are used specifically for migraine headaches.
while the sex hormones estrogen and testosterone certainly play a role in this phenomenon, psychology and culture, too, may account at least in part for differences in how men and women receive pain signals.
cordotomy is generally used only for the pain of  terminal cancer that does not respond to other therapies.
the autonomic nervous system controls  involuntary functions in the body, like perspiration, blood pressure, heart  rate, or heart beat.
another antiepileptic drug, gabapentin, is being studied for its pain-relieving properties, especially as a treatment for neuropathic pain.
relief of pain was the responsibility of sorcerers, shamans, priests, and priestesses, who used herbs, rites, and ceremonies as their treatments.
back pain has become the high price paid by our modern lifestyle and  is a startlingly common cause of disability for many americans, including both  active and inactive people.
ongoing pain research, much of it supported by the ninds, continues to reveal at an unprecedented pace fascinating insights into how genetics, the immune system, and the skin contribute to pain responses.
in general, these chemicals, calledneurotransmitters, transmit nerve impulses from one cell to another.
the cord also has nerve roots and rootlets which form branch-like appendages leading from its ventral side (that is, the front of the body) and from its dorsal side (that is, the back of the body).
electrical stimulation, no matter what form, involves a major  surgical procedure and is not for everyone, nor is it 100 percent effective.
there is evidence, however, that  receptors to which marijuana binds are found in many brain regions that process  information that can produce pain.
similarly, many amputees are frequently aware of severe pain in the absent limb.
more serious chronic pain conditions may require opioid drugs (narcotics),  including codeine or morphine, for relief of pain.
they attributed sensations of pain at the site of  the amputation to irritation of nerves located near the limb stump.
it has never been without controversy, however.
scientists can now identify and  study the changes that occur during the processing of pain.
the possibility now exists for developing new classes of drugs, including pain cocktails that would act at the site of channel activity.
a variety of  medications, including analgesics, antidepressants, anticonvulsants, and  electrical stimulation, are options available to central pain patients.
the possibility now exists for developing  new classes of drugs, including pain cocktails that would act at the site of  channel activity.
similarly, the presence of testosterone, a male hormone, appears to elevate tolerance for pain in female mice: the animals are simply able to withstand pain better.
relief of pain was the responsibility of sorcerers,  shamans, priests, and priestesses, who used herbs, rites, and ceremonies as  their treatments.
because  surgery can result in scar tissue formation that may cause additional problems,  patients are well advised to seek a second opinion before proceeding.
although treating pain in pediatric patients poses a special  challenge to physicians and parents alike, pediatric patients should never be  undertreated.
a sampling of common pain syndromes follows, listed  alphabetically.
in addition, anti-anxiety drugs called benzodiazepines also act as muscle relaxants and are sometimes used as pain relievers.
using sophisticated imaging technologies, investigators can now visualize  what is happening chemically in the spinal cord.
soon, however, better treatments that relieve pain by blocking vanilloid receptors may arrive in drugstores.
the body's natural painkillers may yet prove to be the most promising pain relievers, pointing to one of the most important new avenues in drug development.
for example, male  experimental animals injected with estrogen, a female sex hormone, appear to  have a lower tolerance for pain-that is, the addition of estrogen appears to  lower the pain threshold.
for example, using a technique called polymerase chain reaction, abbreviated pcr, scientists can study the genes that are induced by injury and persistent pain.
receptors for substance p served as a portal or point of entry for the compound.
acupuncture remains  controversial but is quite popular and may one day prove to be useful for a  variety of conditions as it continues to be explored by practitioners,  patients, and investigators.
our understanding of phantom pain has improved tremendously in recent  years.
newer drugs, called cox-2 inhibitors, primarily  block cyclooxygenase-2 and are less likely to have the gastrointestinal side  effects sometimes produced by nsaids.
surgical pain may require regional or general anesthesia during the procedure and medications to control discomfort following the operation.
because there is a known link between many types of chronic pain and tense, weak muscles, exercise-even light to moderate exercise such as walking or swimming-can contribute to an overall sense of well-being by improving blood and oxygen flow to muscles.
in the forefront of pain research are scientists supported by the national  institutes of health (nih), including the ninds.
in the 17th and 18th centuries, the study of the body-and the senses-continued to be a source of wonder for the world's philosophers.
scientists can now identify and study the changes that occur during the processing of pain.
"it has no future but itself," wrote the 19th century american  poet emily dickinson, speaking about pain.
some believe that hypnosis delivers the patient into a trance-like state, while others feel that the individual is simply better able to concentrate and relax or is more responsive to suggestion.
we know, for example, that the  pain-killing properties of codeine rely heavily on a liver enzyme, cyp2d6,  which helps convert codeine into morphine.
the sympathetic and parasympathetic nervous systems have links  to important organs and systems in the body; for example, the sympathetic  nervous system controls the heart, blood vessels, and respiratory system, while  the parasympathetic nervous system controls our ability to sleep, eat, and  digest food.
chili peppers, capsaicin, and pain marijuana information resources introduction: the universal disorder you know it at once.
other institutes at nih that support pain research include the national institute of dental and craniofacial research, the national cancer institute, the national institute of nursing research, the national institute on drug abuse, and the national institute of mental health.
before long, anesthesia-both general and regional-was refined and  applied during surgery.
spondylolisthesis is a back condition that occurs when one  vertebra extends over another, causing pressure on nerves and therefore pain.
in recent years, rsds has come to be calledcomplex  regional pain syndrome (crps); in the past it was often called causalgia .
though not prescribed widely, kappa-opioids are currently used for relief of labor pain and in general work best for short-term pain.
trophic factors: a class of "rescuer" or "restorer" drugs may emerge from our growing knowledge of trophic factors, natural chemical substances found in the human body that affect the survival and function of cells.
in 1931, the french medical missionary dr. albert schweitzer wrote,  "pain is a more terrible lord of mankind than even death itself."
it affects as many as 100,000 americans with multiple sclerosis, parkinson's disease, amputated limbs, spinal cord injuries, and stroke.
acupuncture dates back 2,500 years and involves the application of needles to precise points on the body.
investigators previously believed that brain cells affected by amputation simply died off.
it is part of a general category of  healing called traditional chinese or oriental medicine.
in its most benign form, it warns us that something isn't quite  right, that we should take medicine or see a doctor.
the brain's ability to  restructure itself, to change and adapt following injury, is called plasticity  (see section on plasticity).
aspirin may be the most widely used pain-relief agent and has been  sold over the counter since 1905 as a treatment for fever, headache, and muscle  soreness.
surgical procedures include discectomy,  laminectomy, or spinal fusion.
nerve blocks can also be used to prevent or even diagnose pain.
nerve blocks can cause muscle paralysis and, in many cases, result in at least partial numbness.
arachnoiditis can produce disabling,  progressive, and even permanent pain.
the vanilloid receptor functions as a sort of "ouch gateway," enabling us to detect burning hot pain, whether it originates from a 3-alarm habanera chili or from a stove burner.
in the case of a local nerve block, any one of a number of local  anesthetics may be used; the names of these compounds, such as lidocaine or  novocaine, usually have anaine ending.
in some cases, surgery may be required to remove the damaged portion of the disc and return it to its previous condition, especially when it is pressing a nerve root.
they include: writer's cramp, which affects musicians and writers and others, compression or entrapment neuropathies, including carpal tunnel syndrome,  caused by chronic overextension of the wrist and tendonitis or tenosynovitis, affecting one or more tendons.
the brain may signal the release of painkillers found in the spinal cord, including serotonin, norepinephrine, and opioid-like chemicals.
today, scientists understand a great deal about the causes and mechanisms of pain, and research has produced dramatic improvements in the diagnosis and treatment of a number of painful disorders.
reflex sympathetic dystrophy syndrome, or rsds, is accompanied by  burning pain and hypersensitivity to temperature.
this condition is calledallodynia -a state in which pain is produced by innocuous stimuli.
trophic factors also promote cell death, but little is known about how something beneficial can become harmful.
the chemical found in chili peppers that causes those feelings iscapsaicin (pronounced cap-say-sin), and it works its unique magic by grabbing onto receptors scattered along the surface of sensitive nerve cells in the mouth.
these receptors may provide targets for new pain therapies.
ep tests also involve two sets of electrodes-one set for stimulating a nerve (these  electrodes are attached to a limb) and another set on the scalp for recording  the speed of nerve signal transmission to the brain.
investigators have observed that an over-accumulation of certain trophic  factors in the nerve cells of animals results in heightened pain sensitivity,  and that some receptors found on cells respond to trophic factors and interact  with each other.
pain in younger patients also requires special attention, particularly because young children are not always able to describe the degree of pain they are experiencing.
chiropractic's usefulness as a  treatment for back pain is, for the most part, restricted to a select group of  individuals with uncomplicated acute low back pain who may derive relief from  the massage component of the therapy.
using "knockout" animal models-animals genetically engineered to lack a certain gene-scientists are able to visualize how mutations in genes cause animals to become anxious, make noise, rear, freeze, or become hypervigilant.
although  placebos have no direct effect on the underlying causes of pain, evidence from  clinical studies suggests that many pain conditions such as migraine headache,  back pain, post-surgical pain, rheumatoid arthritis, angina, and depression  sometimes respond well to them.
neurolytic blocks employ injection of chemical agents such as alcohol,  phenol, or glycerol to block pain messages and are most often used to treat  cancer pain or to block pain in the cranial nerves.
for example, the spinal cord is "rewired" following trauma as nerve cell axons make new contacts, a phenomenon known as "sprouting."
types of surgical nerve blocks  include neurectomy; spinal dorsal, cranial, and trigeminal rhizotomy; and  sympathectomy, also called sympathetic blockade.
in the eyes of many individuals  campaigning on its behalf, marijuana rightfully belongs with other pain  remedies.
spondylolisthesis is a back condition that occurs when one vertebra extends over another, causing pressure on nerves and therefore pain.
one way to control pain outside of the brain, that is, peripherally, is by  inhibiting hormones calledprostaglandins.
they are calledserotonin agonists because they mimic the action of endogenous (natural) serotonin and bind to specific subtypes of serotonin receptors.
the vertebrae, discs, and spinal cord stacked on top of one another in the spine are more than 30 bones, the  vertebrae, which together form the spine.
after trauma, cytokine levels rise in the brain and spinal cord and at the site  in the peripheral nervous system where the injury occurred.
endorphins may be responsible for the "feel good" effects experienced by many people after rigorous exercise; they are also implicated in the pleasurable effects of smoking.
migraines are more  frequent in women than men.
the brain may signal the release of painkillers found in the  spinal cord, including serotonin, norepinephrine, and opioid-like chemicals.
from this work, new therapies  may emerge, therapies that can help reduce or obliterate severe or chronic pain.
this positive response is known as the placebo  effect, which is defined as the observable or measurable change that can occur  in patients after administration of a placebo.
for  these individuals, a touch can be perceived as intense burning, indicating  abnormal signals relayed to and from the brain.
while it is often  dismissed as quackery and pseudoscience by skeptics, proponents offer the  theory that magnets may effect changes in cells or body chemistry, thus  producing pain relief.
nociceptors are thin nerve fibers in the skin, muscle, and  other body tissues, that, when stimulated, carry pain signals to the spinal  cord and brain.
as the 21st century unfolds, however, advances in pain research are creating a less grim future than that portrayed in dickinsons verse, a future that includes a better understanding of pain, along with greatly improved treatments to keep it in check.
when this happens, the  condition is called a slipped, bulging, herniated, or ruptured disc, and it  sometimes results in permanent nerve damage.
usually worn as a collar or wristwatch, the use of magnets as a treatment dates back to the ancient egyptians and greeks.
it may be the fiery sensation of a burn moments after  your finger touches the stove.
one common cause of  sciatica is a herniated disc.
positron emission tomography (pet), functional  magnetic resonance imaging (fmri), and other imaging technologies offer a vivid  picture of what is happening in the brain as it processes pain.
neurokinin a and substance
for example,  many individuals suffering from trigeminal neuralgia who are not responsive to  drug treatment have had great success with a procedure called microvascular  decompression, in which tiny blood vessels are surgically separated from  surrounding nerves.
a third theory suggests that the act of taking placebos relieves stress and anxiety-which are known to aggravate some painful conditions-and, thus, cause the patients to feel better.
over the centuries, science has provided us with a remarkable ability to understand and control pain with medications, surgery, and other treatments.
types of surgical nerve blocks include: neurectomy (including peripheral neurectomy) in which a damaged  peripheral nerve is destroyed.
defining pain as sharp or dull, constant or intermittent, burning or aching may give the best clues to the cause of pain.
surgical blocks are performed on cranial, peripheral, or sympathetic nerves.
cognitive-behavioral therapy involves a wide variety of coping skills and relaxation methods to help prepare for and cope with pain.
the following techniques each require specialized equipment and personnel trained in the specific procedure being used: exercise has come to be a prescribed part of some doctors' treatment regimes for patients with pain.
opioids are derived from the poppy plant and are among the oldest drugs known to humankind.
cancer pain can accompany the growth of a tumor, the treatment of cancer, or chronic problems related to cancer's permanent effects on the body.
certain drugs,  including nsaids, act against such hormones by blocking the enzyme that is  required for their synthesis.
back pain can  occur when, for example, someone lifts something too heavy, causing a sprain,  pull, strain, or spasm in one of these muscles or ligaments in the back.
exertion, obesity, and poor  posture can all cause pressure on the sciatic nerve.
return to top appendix spine basics:
discs protect the spine by absorbing shock, but they tend to degenerate over time and may sometimes rupture.
reflex sympathetic dystrophy syndrome, or rsds, is accompanied by burning pain and hypersensitivity to temperature.
burn pain can be profound and poses an extreme challenge to the medical community.
whatever the treatment regime, it is  important to remember that pain istreatable.
pain in aging and pediatric populations: special needs and concerns pain is the number one complaint of older americans, and one in five older americans takes a painkiller regularly.
the following areas of research are bringing us closer to an  ideal pain drug.
physician-scientists discovered that  opium, morphine, codeine, and cocaine could be used to treat pain.
this in turn produces temporary pain relief.
this  emphasizes that the experience of pain involves a strong emotional component as  well as the sensory experience, namely the intensity of the stimulus.
leonardo da vinci and his contemporaries came to believe that the brain was the central organ responsible for sensation.
ruptures, spasms, constriction, or obstruction of blood vessels, as well as a condition called ischemia in which blood supply to organs, tissues, or limbs is cut off, can also result in pain.
some patients who have had an injury to the spinal  cord experience intense pain ranging from tingling to burning and, commonly,  both.
when animals were given injections of a lethal cocktail  containing substance p linked to the chemical saporin, this group of cells,  whose sole function is to communicate pain, were killed.
they include codeine and perhaps the most well-known  narcotic of all,morphine.
this phenomenon is known as phantom limb and accounts describing it date back to the 1800s.
fortunately, most cancer pain can be treated to help minimize discomfort and  stress to the patient.
there are many different neurotransmitters in the human body; some play a role in human disease and, in the case of pain, act in various combinations to produce painful sensations in the body.
a third theory  suggests that the act of taking placebos relieves stress and anxiety-which are  known to aggravate some painful conditions-and, thus, cause the patients to  feel better.
chromaffin cells produce  several of the body's pain-killing substances and are part of the adrenal  medulla, which sits on top of the kidney.
morphine is  one such drug.
the vertebrae, discs, and spinal cord stacked on top of one another in the spine are more than 30 bones, the vertebrae, which together form the spine.
repetitive stress injuries are muscular conditions that result from repeated motions performed in the course of normal work or other daily activities.
at its worst, however, pain robs us of our productivity, our well-being, and, for many of us suffering from extended illness, our very lives.
in 1998, the american geriatrics society (ags) issued guidelines* for the management of pain in older people.
the body's chemicals act in the transmission of pain messages by stimulating neurotransmitter receptors found on the surface of cells; each receptor  has a corresponding neurotransmitter.
in its most benign form, it warns us that something isn't quite right, that we should take medicine or see a doctor.
back pain that spreads to the leg is called sciatica and is a very common condition (see below).
depending on the injury, pain accompanying burns can be excruciating, and even after the wound has healed patients may have chronic pain at the burn site.
they include the olfactory (i), optic (ii), oculomotor (iii), trochlear (iv), trigeminal (v), abducens (vi), facial (vii), vestibulocochlear (viii), glossopharyngeal (ix), vagus (x), accessory (xi), and hypoglossal (xii) nerves.
another promising area of research using the body's natural pain-killing abilities is the transplantation of chromaffin cells into the spinal cords of animals bred experimentally to develop arthritis.
plasticity: following injury, the nervous system undergoes a tremendous reorganization.
thin needles are inserted in muscles  and a physician can see or listen to electrical signals displayed on an emg  machine.
this  is a critical finding as it is important to retain the body's ability to detect  potentially injurious stimuli.
any of these injuries can result in severe disability and pain.
ion channels are important for transmitting  signals through the nerve's membrane.
prompt treatment with  antiviral agents is important to arrest the infection, which if prolonged can  result in an associated condition known aspostherpetic neuralgia.
spinal stenosis refers to a narrowing of the canal surrounding the spinal cord.
their research offers a powerful weapon in the battle to prolong and improve the lives of people with pain:hope.
certain drugs, including nsaids, act against such hormones by blocking the enzyme that is required for their synthesis.
opioids have a narcotic effect, that is, they induce sedation as well as pain relief, and some patients may become physically dependent upon them.
improvements in our understanding of the precise role of cytokines in producing pain, especially pain resulting from injury, may lead to new classes of drugs that can block the action of these substances.
cluster headaches are characterized by excruciating, piercing pain  on one side of the head; they occur more frequently in men than women.
chili peppers, capsaicin, and pain the hot feeling, red face, and watery eyes you experience when you bite  into a red chili pepper may make you reach for a cold drink, but that reaction  has also given scientists important information about pain.
types of surgical nerve blocks include neurectomy; spinal dorsal, cranial, and trigeminal rhizotomy; and sympathectomy, also called sympathetic blockade.
although acetaminophen may have some anti-inflammatory effects, it  is generally distinguished from the traditional nsaids.
using imaging, investigators can now see that pain activates at least three or four key areas of the brain's cortex-the layer of tissue that covers the brain.
when animals were given injections of a lethal cocktail containing substance p linked to the chemical saporin, this group of cells, whose sole function is to communicate pain, were killed.
hypnosis may result in relief of pain by acting on chemicals in the  nervous system, slowing impulses.
placebos are  inactive substances, such as sugar pills, or harmless procedures, such as  saline injections or sham surgeries, generally used in clinical studies as  control factors to help determine the efficacy of active treatments.
trophic factors also promote cell death, but  little is known about how something beneficial can become harmful.
over the centuries, science has  provided us with a remarkable ability to understand and control pain with  medications, surgery, and other treatments.
the central nervous system (cns) refers to the brain and spinal cord  together.
biofeedback is used for the treatment of many common pain problems, most notably headache and back pain.
scientists are working toward  the development of a morphine-like drug that will have the pain-deadening  qualities of morphine but without the drug's negative side effects, such as  sedation and the potential for addiction.
although the  operation can cause the spine to stiffen, resulting in lost flexibility, the  procedure serves one critical purpose: protection of the spinal cord.
regional blocks affect a larger  area of the body.
descartes illustrated how particles  of fire, in contact with the foot, travel to the brain and he compared pain  sensation to the ringing of a bell.
primarily these include: electrodiagnostic procedures include electromyography (emg), nerve conduction studies, and evoked potential (ep) studies.
other  painful disorders affecting the skin include: vasculitis, or inflammation of blood vessels; other infections, including herpes simplex; skin tumors and cysts, and tumors associated with neurofibromatosis, a neurogenetic disorder.
return to top what is the future of pain research?
anticonvulsants are used for the treatment of seizure disorders but are also sometimes prescribed for the treatment of pain.
investigators know that males and females both have strong natural  pain-killing systems, but these systems operate differently.
first-degree burns are the least severe; with third-degree  burns, the skin is lost.
patients receiving morphine also face the problem of morphine tolerance, meaning that over time they require higher doses of the drug to achieve the same pain relief.
physicians reach a diagnosis by listening  to the patient's description of the symptoms and by performing a simple  examination of the facial muscles and the temporomandibular joint.
the explosion of knowledge about human genetics is helping scientists who  work in the field of drug development.
vascular disease or injury-such as vasculitis or inflammation of blood vessels, coronary artery disease, and circulatory problems-all have the potential to cause pain.
these descriptions are part of what is called the pain history, taken by the  physician during the preliminary examination of a patient with pain.
for example, a type of frog native to ecuador has been found to have a chemical in its skin called epibatidine, derived from the frog's scientific name,epipedobates tricolor .
the vanilloid receptor  functions as a sort of "ouch gateway," enabling us to detect burning  hot pain, whether it originates from a 3-alarm habanera chili or from a stove  burner.
da vinci also developed the idea that the spinal cord transmits sensations to the brain.
there  are the most benign, fleeting sensations of pain, such as a pin prick.
analgesic refers to the class of drugs that includes most  painkillers, such as aspirin, acetaminophen, and ibuprofen.
chemonucleolysis is a treatment in which an enzyme, chymopapain, is injected directly into a herniated lumbar disc in an effort to dissolve material around the disc, thus reducing pressure and pain.
people who  genetically lack cyp2d6 may not be able to cleanse their systems of these drugs  and may be vulnerable to drug toxicity.
the second set of electrodes is  used to make a recording of the nerve's electrical signals, and from this  information the doctor can determine if there is nerve damage.
nonprescription  or over-the-counter pain relievers are generally used for mild to moderate  pain.
individuals can  become desensitized to the compound, however, perhaps because of long-term  damage to nerve tissue.
normally, nociceptors only respond to strong stimuli such as a pinch.
women, many experts now agree, recover more quickly from  pain, seek help more quickly for their pain, and are less likely to allow pain  to control their lives.
usually worn as a collar or wristwatch, the use of magnets as a  treatment dates back to the ancient egyptians and greeks.
panel members from a number of fields reviewed published research and heard presentations from pain experts.
for older adults, acetaminophen is the  first-line treatment for mild-to-moderate pain, according to the guidelines.
surgery, although not always an option, may be required to relieve  pain, especially pain caused by back problems or serious musculoskeletal  injuries.
appendix spine basics:
the protective, early warning signal that pain  provides is essential for normal functioning.
for example, using  a technique called polymerase chain reaction, abbreviated pcr, scientists can  study the genes that are induced by injury and persistent pain.
another condition, trigeminal neuralgia (also called tic douloureux), affects the largest of  the cranial nerves and is characterized by a stabbing, shooting pain.
others say placebos relieve pain by stimulating the brain's own  analgesics and setting the body's self-healing forces in motion.
for these reasons, patients  given opioids should be monitored carefully; in some cases stimulants may be  prescribed to counteract the sedative side effects.
research suggests that kappa-opioids provide better pain relief in women.
in some cases, surgery may be required to remove the  damaged portion of the disc and return it to its previous condition, especially  when it is pressing a nerve root.
spinal stenosis causes  weakness in the legs and leg pain usually felt while the person is standing up  and often relieved by sitting down.
imaging, especially magnetic resonance imaging or mri,  provides physicians with pictures of the body's structures and tissues.
nerve blocks employ the use of drugs, chemical agents, or surgical  techniques to interrupt the relay of pain messages between specific areas of  the body and the brain.
cytokines, a type of protein found in the nervous system, are also part of the  body's immune system, the body's shield for fighting off disease.
the peripheral nervous system also includes 12 pairs of cranial nerves located on the underside of the brain.
carbamazepine in particular is used to treat a number of painful conditions, including trigeminal neuralgia.
control of pain associated with surgery includes presurgical preparation and  careful monitoring of the patient during and after the procedure.
these genetic mutations cause a disruption or alteration in the processing of pain information as it leaves the spinal cord and travels to the brain.
some believe that hypnosis delivers the  patient into a trance-like state, while others feel that the individual is  simply better able to concentrate and relax or is more responsive to  suggestion.
some experts believe the effect  is psychological and that placebos work because the patients believe or expect  them to work.
the following areas of research are bringing us closer to an ideal pain drug.
some individuals find the burning sensation they experience when using capsaicin cream to be intolerable, especially when they are already suffering from a painful condition, such as postherpetic neuralgia.
nerve blocks may also take the form of what is commonly  called an epidural, in which a drug is administered into the space between the  spine's protective covering (the dura) and the spinal column.
mice bred experimentally to lack a gene for two peptides calledtachykinins-
we may experience pain as a prick, tingle, sting, burn, or ache.
thus, scientists hope that therapies directed at preventing the long-term changes that occur in the nervous system will prevent the development of chronic pain conditions.
certain types of cytokines have been linked to nervous system injury.
surgery may take the form of a nerve block or it may involve an  operation to relieve pain from a ruptured disc.
the peripheral nervous system refers to the cervical, thoracic, lumbar, and sacral nerve trunks leading away from the spine to the limbs.
early humans related pain to evil, magic, and demons.
the most common destination in the brain for pain signals is the thalamus  and from there to the cortex, the headquarters for complex thoughts.
phantom pain: how does the brain feel? sometimes, when a limb is removed during an amputation, an individual will continue to have an internal sense of the lost limb.
today, pain has become the universal disorder, a serious and costly public health issue, and a challenge for family, friends, and health care providers who must give support to the individual suffering from the physical as well as the emotional consequences of pain.
their pain is real and is often accompanied by other health problems, such as depression.
while the sex hormones estrogen and testosterone certainly play a role in this  phenomenon, psychology and culture, too, may account at least in part for  differences in how men and women receive pain signals.
biofeedback is used for the treatment of many common pain  problems, most notably headache and back pain.
among the many neuropathic pain conditions arediabetic neuropathy (which results from nerve damage secondary to vascular problems that occur with diabetes);reflex sympathetic dystrophy syndrome, which can follow injury;phantom limb and post-amputation pain, which can result from the surgical removal of a limb;postherpetic neuralgia, which can occur after an outbreak of shingles; andcentral pain syndrome, which can result from trauma to the brain or spinal cord.
receptors function much like gates or ports and enable pain messages to pass through and on to neighboring cells.
they are divided into four regions: the seven cervical or neck vertebrae (labeled c1-c7), the 12 thoracic or upper back vertebrae (labeled t1-t12), the five lumbar vertebrae (labeled l1-l5), which we know as the lower  back, and the sacrum and coccyx, a group of bones fused together at the base of the  spine.
millions of americans suffer from arthritic conditions such as osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis, and gout.
cordotomy is generally used only for the pain of terminal cancer that does not respond to other therapies.
also, damage to nerve roots is a serious condition, calledradiculopathy,  that can be extremely painful.
counseling can give a patient suffering from pain much needed support, whether it is derived from family, group, or individual counseling.
in recent years, rsds has come to be calledcomplex regional pain syndrome (crps); in the past it was often called causalgia .
many investigators are turning their attention to the study of gender differences and pain.
also, damage to nerve roots is a serious condition, calledradiculopathy, that can be extremely painful.
in 1997, the national institutes of health held a workshop to discuss research on the possible therapeutic uses for smoked marijuana.
* journal of the american geriatrics society (1998; 46:635-651).
surgical procedures for back  problems includediscectomy or, when microsurgical techniques are used, microdiscectomy, in which the entire disc is removed; laminectomy , a procedure in which a surgeon removes only a disc fragment, gaining access  by entering through the arched portion of a vertebra; and spinal fusion, a  procedure where the entire disc is removed and replaced with a bone graft.
nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (nsaids) (including aspirin and  ibuprofen) are widely prescribed and sometimes called non-narcotic or  non-opioid analgesics.
for example, a type of frog  native to ecuador has been found to have a chemical in its skin called  epibatidine, derived from the frog's scientific name,epipedobates tricolor .
the three most common types  of chronic headache are migraines, cluster headaches, and tension headaches.
information fromemg can help physicians tell precisely which muscles or  nerves are affected by weakness or pain.
knockout animals can be used to complement efforts aimed at developing new drugs.
as the 21st century unfolds,  however, advances in pain research are creating a less grim future than that  portrayed in dickinson’s verse, a future that includes a better  understanding of pain, along with greatly improved treatments to keep it in  check.
no test can measure the  intensity of pain, no imaging device can show pain, and no instrument can  locate pain precisely.
channels: the frontier in the search for new drug targets is represented by channels.
they are most often done to relieve the pain of cancer and extreme facial pain, such as that experienced with trigeminal neuralgia.
head and facial pain can be agonizing, whether it results from  dental problems or from disorders such as cranial neuralgia, in which one of  the nerves in the face, head, or neck is inflamed.
is it because a  woman's estrogen makes them work, or because a man's testosterone prevents them  from working?
one objective of investigators working to develop the future generation of  pain medications is to take full advantage of the body's pain "switching  center" by formulating compounds that will prevent pain signals from being  amplified or stop them altogether.
surgery, although not always an option, may be required to relieve pain, especially pain caused by back problems or serious musculoskeletal injuries.
messages related to function (such as movement) or dysfunction (such as pain)  travel from the brain to the spinal cord and from there to other regions in the  body and back to the brain again.
newer drugs, called cox-2 inhibitors, primarily block cyclooxygenase-2 and are less likely to have the gastrointestinal side effects sometimes produced by nsaids.
the panel members concluded that, because there are too few scientific studies to prove marijuana's therapeutic utility for certain conditions, additional research is needed.
in some cases, a drug called guanethidine is administered intravenously in order to accomplish the block.
there are several different types of surgical nerve blocks and they are not without problems and complications.
the column-like spinal cord is divided into segments similar to the  corresponding vertebrae: cervical, thoracic, lumbar, sacral, and coccygeal.
similarly, the presence of testosterone, a male  hormone, appears to elevate tolerance for pain in female mice: the animals are  simply able to withstand pain better.
however, when tissues become injured or inflamed, as with a sunburn or  infection, they release chemicals that make nociceptors much more sensitive and  cause them to transmit pain signals in response to even gentle stimuli such as  breeze or a caress.
the nervous systems
they also are more likely to marshal a variety of  resources-coping skills, support, and distraction-with which to deal with their  pain.
for people who fight every day against the limitations imposed by  pain, the work of ninds-supported scientists holds the promise of an even  greater understanding of pain in the coming years.
the greeks and romans were the first to advance a theory of sensation, the idea that the brain and nervous system have a role in producing the perception of pain.
on 1999, the food and drug administration approved two cox-2 inhibitors-rofecoxib (vioxx®) and celecoxib (celebrex®).
an increased understanding of the basic mechanisms of pain will have profound implications for the development of future medicines.
chili peppers, capsaicin, and pain the hot feeling, red face, and watery eyes you experience when you bite into a red chili pepper may make you reach for a cold drink, but that reaction has also given scientists important information about pain.
in 1664, the french philosopher rené descartes described what to this day is still called a "pain pathway."
these procedures rarely result in  long-term pain relief, but both physician and patient may decide that the  surgical procedure will be effective enough that it justifies the expense and  risk.
some chemicals govern mild pain  sensations; others control intense or severe pain.
when study  participants move the stump of an amputated limb, neurons in the brain remain  dynamic and excitable.
the protective, early warning signal that pain provides is essential for normal functioning.
the word analgesic  is derived from ancient greek and means to reduce or stop pain.
in one study conducted with rats, dr. liebeskind found that, following experimental surgery, nk cell activity was suppressed, causing the cancer to spread more rapidly.
or is there another explanation, such as differences between men and women in their perception of pain?
importantly, the animals still responded to acute, that is, normal, pain.
cytokines can  trigger pain by promoting inflammation, even in the absence of injury or  damage.
it is part of a general category of healing called traditional chinese or oriental medicine.
another operation for  pain is thedorsal root entry zone operation, or drez, in which spinal  neurons corresponding to the patient's pain are destroyed surgically.
sometimes, as in the case of headaches, physicians find that the best aid to diagnosis is the patient's own description of the type, duration, and location of pain.
one way to control pain outside of the brain, that is, peripherally, is by inhibiting hormones calledprostaglandins.
in addition to drowsiness,  other common side effects include constipation, nausea, and vomiting.
for many years scientists have wanted  to develop the ultimate drug-a drug that works as well as morphine but without  its negative side effects.
prostaglandins stimulate  nerves at the site of injury and cause inflammation and fever.
when the animals were treated with morphine, however, they  were able to avoid this reaction to stress.
some chemicals govern mild pain sensations; others control intense or severe pain.
prescription pain relievers, sold through a pharmacy under the direction  of a physician, are used for more moderate to severe pain.
it is important, however,  that patients carefully follow the routine laid out by their physicians.
in his pioneering research on the immune system  and pain, dr. liebeskind studied the effects of stress-such as surgery-on the  immune system and in particular on cells callednatural killer or nk  cells.
sciatica is characterized by pain in the  buttocks and can be caused by a number of factors.
in addition, anti-anxiety drugs called benzodiazepines also  act as muscle relaxants and are sometimes used as pain relievers.
what is the future of pain research?
studies have identified factors that contribute to the development of tolerance; continued progress in this line of research should eventually allow patients to take lower doses of morphine.
many of these drugs irritate the stomach and for that reason are usually taken with food.
what causes this phenomenon?
the condition may be the  result of a number of factors, such as an injury to the jaw or joint  misalignment, and may give rise to a variety of symptoms, most commonly pain in  the jaw, face, and/or neck muscles.
in fact, for many years, it was sold under highly controlled  conditions in cigarette form by the federal government for just that purpose.
these may be applied to increase function, control pain, and speed the patient  toward full recovery.
acetaminophen is the basic ingredient found in tylenol® and its  many generic equivalents.
they are divided into four regions: the vertebrae are linked by ligaments, tendons, and muscles.
r.i.c.e.-rest, ice, compression, and e levation-are four components prescribed by many orthopedists, coaches,  trainers, nurses, and other professionals for temporary muscle or joint  conditions, such as sprains or strains.
nerve blocks may also take the form of what is commonly called an epidural, in which a drug is administered into the space between the spine's protective covering (the dura) and the spinal column.
but when exposed to more severe  pain, the mice exhibit a reduced pain response.
also under  development are other less toxic compounds that act on acetylcholine receptors  and may prove to be more potent than morphine but without its addictive  properties.
nerve blocks nerve blocks may involve local anesthesia, regional anesthesia or analgesia, or surgery; dentists routinely use them for traditional dental procedures.
the peripheral nervous system refers to the cervical, thoracic,  lumbar, and sacral nerve trunks leading away from the spine to the limbs.
when the animals were treated with morphine, however, they were able to avoid this reaction to stress.
prompt treatment with antiviral agents is important to arrest the infection, which if prolonged can result in an associated condition known aspostherpetic neuralgia.
phantom pain: how does the brain feel? sometimes, when a limb is removed during an amputation, an individual will  continue to have an internal sense of the lost limb.
some pain medications dull the patient's perception of pain.
for example,  before a migraine headache, serotonin levels fall.
myofascial pain syndromes affect sensitive areas known as trigger  points, located within the body's muscles.
mice bred experimentally to lack a gene for two  peptides calledtachykinins-
using a special electronic  machine, the patient is trained to become aware of, to follow, and to gain  control over certain bodily functions, including muscle tension, heart rate,  and skin temperature.
pain in younger patients also requires special attention, particularly  because young children are not always able to describe the degree of pain they  are experiencing.
other painful disorders affecting the skin include: sports injuries are common.
for example, male experimental animals injected with estrogen, a female sex hormone, appear to have a lower tolerance for pain-that is, the addition of estrogen appears to lower the pain threshold.
the procedure's use  is extremely limited, in part because some patients may have a life-threatening  allergic reaction to chymopapain.
these methods can be powerful and effective,  according to those who advocate their use.
the  thalamus also serves as the brain's storage area for images of the body and  plays a key role in relaying messages between the brain and various parts of  the body.
thus, scientists hope that therapies directed at preventing the long-term  changes that occur in the nervous system will prevent the development of  chronic pain conditions.
first-degree burns are the least severe; with third-degree burns, the skin is lost.
central pain syndrome-see "trauma" below.
during experiments, mice with blocked glutamate receptors show a reduction in their responses to pain.
the international association for the study of pain defines it as:an unpleasant sensory and emotional experience associated with actual or potential tissue damage or described in terms of such damage.
chemonucleolysis is a treatment in which an enzyme, chymopapain, is  injected directly into a herniated lumbar disc in an effort to dissolve  material around the disc, thus reducing pressure and pain.
cytokines, a type of protein found in the nervous system, are also part of the body's immune system, the body's shield for fighting off disease.
back pain can occur when, for example, someone lifts something too heavy, causing a sprain, pull, strain, or spasm in one of these muscles or ligaments in the back.
these drugs  led to the development of aspirin, to this day the most commonly used pain  reliever.
continued research may result in a  better understanding of how pain affects women differently from men, enabling  new and better pain medications to be designed with gender in mind.
other rhizotomy  procedures includecranial rhizotomy and trigeminal rhizotomy,  performed as a treatment for extreme facial pain or for the pain of cancer.
regional blocks affect a larger area of the body.
this positive response is known as the placebo effect, which is defined as the observable or measurable change that can occur in patients after administration of a placebo.
muscle pain can range from an aching muscle, spasm, or strain, to the severe spasticity that accompanies paralysis.
pain is a complex perception that differs enormously among individual patients, even those who appear to have identical injuries or illnesses.
the cause of acute pain can usually be diagnosed  and treated, and the pain is self-limiting, that is, it is confined to a given  period of time and severity.
for these reasons, patients given opioids should be monitored carefully; in some cases stimulants may be prescribed to counteract the sedative side effects.
the two faces of pain: acute and chronic what is pain?
there is evidence that the proteins that are ultimately synthesized by these genes may be targets for new therapies.
deep brain or intracerebral stimulation is considered an extreme  treatment and involves surgical stimulation of the brain, usually the thalamus.
although highly toxic, epibatidine is a potent analgesic and, surprisingly, resembles the chemical nicotine found in cigarettes.
it is sold over the counter, in a prescription-strength preparation, and in combination with codeine (also by prescription).
occasionally, surgery is carried out with electrodes that selectively damage  neurons in a targeted area of the brain.
biofeedback is often used in combination with other treatment methods, generally without side effects.
studies have identified  factors that contribute to the development of tolerance; continued progress in  this line of research should eventually allow patients to take lower doses of  morphine.
gender and pain it is now widely believed that pain affects men and women differently.
other institutes at nih that  support pain research include the national institute of dental and craniofacial  research, the national cancer institute, the national institute of nursing  research, the national institute on drug abuse, and the national institute of  mental health.
the idea of using receptors as gateways for pain drugs is a novel idea,  supported by experiments involving substance p. investigators have been able to  isolate a tiny population of neurons, located in the spinal cord, that together  form a major portion of the pathway responsible for carrying persistent pain  signals to the brain.
neuralgia, as in trigeminal neuralgia, is a term that refers to pain that arises from abnormal activity of a nerve trunk or its branches.
the procedure is also done for cardiac pain,  vascular disease pain, the pain of reflex sympathetic dystrophy syndrome, and  other conditions.
today, pain has become the universal disorder, a serious and costly public  health issue, and a challenge for family, friends, and health care providers  who must give support to the individual suffering from the physical as well as  the emotional consequences of pain.
in the forefront of pain research are scientists supported by the national institutes of health (nih), including the ninds.
systems and imaging: the idea of mapping cognitive functions to precise areas of the brain dates back to phrenology, the now archaic practice of studying bumps on the head.
back pain has become the high price paid by our modern lifestyle and is a startlingly common cause of disability for many americans, including both active and inactive people.
surprisingly, the brain's cells can be stimulated by other body parts, often those located closest to the missing limb.
x-rays produce pictures of the body's structures, such as bones and  joints.
also under development are other less toxic compounds that act on acetylcholine receptors and may prove to be more potent than morphine but without its addictive properties.
a sampling of common pain syndromes follows, listed alphabetically.
nonsteroidal agents, and especially acetaminophen, are most often  prescribed for control of pain in children.
in extreme cases, sports injuries can take the form of costly and painful spinal cord and head injuries, which cause severe suffering and disability.
just as we know that  stress contributes to pain, we also know that exercise, sleep, and relaxation  can all help reduce stress, thereby helping to alleviate pain.
other names:   myalgia, discomfort a-z of pain
physicians, however, do have a number of technologies they use to find the  cause of pain.
the goal of pain management is to improve function, enabling individuals to work, attend school, or participate in other day-to-day activities.
" electrical stimulation, including transcutaneous electrical  stimulation (tens), implanted electric nerve stimulation, and deep brain or  spinal cord stimulation, is the modern-day extension of age-old practices in  which the nerves of muscles are subjected to a variety of stimuli, including  heat or massage.
the individual can then learn to effect a change in his or her responses to pain, for example, by using relaxation techniques.
the chemical found  in chili peppers that causes those feelings iscapsaicin (pronounced  cap-say-sin), and it works its unique magic by grabbing onto receptors  scattered along the surface of sensitive nerve cells in the mouth.
female mice deprived of estrogen during  experiments react to stress similarly to male animals.
along the dorsal root are the cells of the dorsal root ganglia, which are critical in the transmission of "pain" messages from the cord to the brain.
nonsteroidal agents, and especially acetaminophen, are most often prescribed for control of pain in children.
on 1999, the food and drug administration  approved two cox-2 inhibitors-rofecoxib (vioxx®) and celecoxib  (celebrex®).
the body's chemicals act in the transmission of pain messages by stimulating neurotransmitter receptors found on the surface of cells; each receptor has a corresponding neurotransmitter.
spinal dorsal rhizotomy in which the surgeon cuts the root or  rootlets of one or more of the nerves radiating from the spine.
surgical blocks are performed on cranial, peripheral, or sympathetic  nerves.
" electrical stimulation, including transcutaneous electrical stimulation (tens), implanted electric nerve stimulation, and deep brain or spinal cord stimulation, is the modern-day extension of age-old practices in which the nerves of muscles are subjected to a variety of stimuli, including heat or massage.
one brain chemical of special interest to neuroscientists isglutamate.
other important receptors in pain transmission are opiate-like receptors.
receptors  on the skin trigger a series of events, beginning with an electrical impulse  that travels from the skin to the spinal cord.
the dramatic changes that occur with injury and persistent pain underscore that chronic pain should be considered a disease of the nervous system, not just prolonged acute pain or a symptom of an injury.
there is evidence, however, that receptors to which marijuana binds are found in many brain regions that process information that can produce pain.
systems and imaging: the idea of mapping cognitive functions to  precise areas of the brain dates back to phrenology, the now archaic practice  of studying bumps on the head.
it is important, however, that patients carefully follow the routine laid out by their physicians.
capsaicin is a chemical found in chili peppers that is also a primary ingredient in pain-relieving creams.
exertion, obesity, and poor posture can all cause pressure on the sciatic nerve.
another disabling syndrome is fibromyalgia, a disorder characterized by fatigue, stiffness, joint  tenderness, and widespread muscle pain.
it  affects as many as 100,000 americans with multiple sclerosis, parkinson's  disease, amputated limbs, spinal cord injuries, and stroke.
physicians usually try to treat the condition with analgesics before prescribing these drugs.
receptors for  substance p served as a portal or point of entry for the compound.
when this happens, the condition is called a slipped, bulging, herniated, or ruptured disc, and it sometimes results in permanent nerve damage.
for example,  the spinal cord is "rewired" following trauma as nerve cell axons  make new contacts, a phenomenon known as "sprouting."
they are most often done to relieve the pain of cancer and extreme  facial pain, such as that experienced with trigeminal neuralgia.
along the dorsal root are the  cells of the dorsal root ganglia, which are critical in the transmission of  "pain" messages from the cord to the brain.
more serious chronic pain conditions may require opioid drugs (narcotics), including codeine or morphine, for relief of pain.
a brief history of pain ancient civilizations recorded on stone tablets accounts of pain and the treatments used: pressure, heat, water, and sun.
this suggests that the two  peptides are involved in the production of pain sensations, especially  moderate-to-severe pain.
in the 17th and 18th centuries, the study of the body-and the  senses-continued to be a source of wonder for the world's philosophers.
another common type of back pain is associated with the discs of the spine, the soft, spongy padding between the vertebrae (bones) that form the spine.
we know, for example, that the pain-killing properties of codeine rely heavily on a liver enzyme, cyp2d6, which helps convert codeine into morphine.
head and facial pain can be agonizing, whether it results from dental problems or from disorders such as cranial neuralgia, in which one of the nerves in the face, head, or neck is inflamed.
antimigraine drugs include the triptans- sumatriptan (imitrex®),  naratriptan (amerge®), and zolmitriptan (zomig®)-and are used  specifically for migraine headaches.
no test can measure the intensity of pain, no imaging device can show pain, and no instrument can locate pain precisely.
panel members  from a number of fields reviewed published research and heard presentations  from pain experts.
nerve blocks employ the use of drugs, chemical agents, or surgical techniques to interrupt the relay of pain messages between specific areas of the body and the brain.
people who genetically lack cyp2d6 may not be able to cleanse their systems of these drugs and may be vulnerable to drug toxicity.
endorphins may be responsible for the "feel good" effects experienced  by many people after rigorous exercise; they are also implicated in the  pleasurable effects of smoking.
in addition, patients may be able to  take cox-2 inhibitors in larger doses than aspirin and other drugs that have  irritating side effects, earning them the nickname "superaspirins.
in addition, patients may be able to take cox-2 inhibitors in larger doses than aspirin and other drugs that have irritating side effects, earning them the nickname "superaspirins.
patients  and their physicians have a number of options for the treatment of pain; some  are more effective than others.
stress can trigger a migraine headache, and  migraines can also put the sufferer at risk for stroke.
in his research, the late john c. liebeskind, a renowned pain expert and a professor of psychology at ucla, found that pain can kill by delaying healing and causing cancer to spread.
acute pain, for the most part, results from disease,  inflammation, or injury to tissues.
some experts believe the effect is psychological and that placebos work because the patients believe or expect them to work.
exercise has been proven to help many people with low back pain.
it can be made much worse by environmental and psychological factors.
sometimes, relaxation and the use of imagery as  a distraction provide relief.
support groups can provide an important adjunct to drug or surgical treatment.
similarly, peptides, compounds that make up proteins in the body,  play a role in pain responses.
narcotics (see opioids, below).
many other  inflammatory diseases affect the body's soft tissues, including tendonitis and  bursitis.
the vertebrae are linked by ligaments, tendons, and muscles.
scientists believe that following amputation, nerve cells "rewire" themselves and continue to receive messages, resulting in a remapping of the brain's circuitry.
channels are gate-like passages found along the membranes of cells that allow electrically charged chemical particles called ions to pass into the cells.
is it because a woman's estrogen makes them work, or because a man's testosterone prevents them from working?
continued research on tachykinins, conducted with support from the ninds, may pave the way for drugs tailored to treat different severities of pain.
placebos offer some individuals pain relief although whether and how  they have an effect is mysterious and somewhat controversial.
the sympathetic and parasympathetic nervous systems have links to important organs and systems in the body; for example, the sympathetic nervous system controls the heart, blood vessels, and respiratory system, while the parasympathetic nervous system controls our ability to sleep, eat, and digest food.
this in turn disrupts the cells' supply of trophic factors.
capsaicin is currently available as a prescription or over-the-counter cream for the treatment of a number of pain conditions, such as shingles.
many of these drugs irritate the stomach and for that reason are usually taken  with food.
it is here where injury,  damage, and trauma become pain.
an increased understanding of the basic  mechanisms of pain will have profound implications for the development of  future medicines.
leonardo da vinci and his contemporaries came to believe that the brain was the  central organ responsible for sensation.
magnets are increasingly popular with athletes who swear by their  effectiveness for the control of sports-related pain and other painful  conditions.
one common cause of sciatica is a herniated disc.
developing better pain treatments is the primary goal of all  pain research being conducted by these institutes.
neuropathic pain is a type of pain that can result from injury to nerves, either in the peripheral or central nervous system.
in 1997, scientists at the university of california at san francisco  discovered a gene for a capsaicin receptor, called the vanilloid receptor.
they can have serious side effects in some people and therefore, as with all prescription medicines, should be used only under a doctor's care.
acupuncture remains controversial but is quite popular and may one day prove to be useful for a variety of conditions as it continues to be explored by practitioners, patients, and investigators.
for older adults, acetaminophen is the first-line treatment for mild-to-moderate pain, according to the guidelines.
return to top how is pain diagnosed?
often triggered by trauma or  nerve damage, rsds causes the skin of the affected area to become  characteristically shiny.
another condition, trigeminal neuralgia (also called tic douloureux), affects the largest of the cranial nerves and is characterized by a stabbing, shooting pain.
the individual can then learn to effect a change in his  or her responses to pain, for example, by using relaxation techniques.
trophic factors: a class of "rescuer" or  "restorer" drugs may emerge from our growing knowledge of trophic  factors, natural chemical substances found in the human body that affect the  survival and function of cells.
it works by reducing the amount of substance p found in nerve endings and interferes with the transmission of pain signals to the brain.
they attributed sensations of pain at the site of the amputation to irritation of nerves located near the limb stump.
investigators know that males and females both have strong natural pain-killing systems, but these systems operate differently.
cytokines can trigger pain by promoting inflammation, even in the absence of injury or damage.
p-have a reduced response to severe pain.
in some rare instances, it can become chronic.
physical therapy and rehabilitation date back to the ancient  practice of using physical techniques and methods, such as heat, cold,  exercise, massage, and manipulation, in the treatment of certain conditions.
trauma can occur after injuries in the home, at the workplace,  during sports activities, or on the road.
myofascial pain syndromes are sometimes misdiagnosed and can be debilitating.
in extreme cases, sports injuries can take the form of costly and  painful spinal cord and head injuries, which cause severe suffering and  disability.
anticonvulsants are used for the treatment of seizure disorders but  are also sometimes prescribed for the treatment of pain.
nerve blocks can cause muscle paralysis and, in  many cases, result in at least partial numbness.
in the case of a local nerve block, any one of a number of local anesthetics may be used; the names of these compounds, such as lidocaine or novocaine, usually have anaine ending.
it is sold over the  counter and also comes in prescription-strength preparations.
investigators have observed that an over-accumulation of certain trophic factors in the nerve cells of animals results in heightened pain sensitivity, and that some receptors found on cells respond to trophic factors and interact with each other.
they may be caused by infection or autoimmune dysfunction  and are sometimes associated with connective tissue disorders, such as lupus  and rheumatoid arthritis.
in addition to drowsiness, other common side effects include constipation, nausea, and vomiting.
blood vessel walls stretch or dilate during a migraine attack and it is thought that serotonin plays a complicated role in this process.
research in this area is yielding fascinating results.
tension headaches are often described as a tight band around the  head.
arachnoiditis is a condition in which one of the three membranes  covering the brain and spinal cord, called the arachnoid membrane, becomes
their research offers a  powerful weapon in the battle to prolong and improve the lives of people with  pain:hope.
pain in aging and pediatric populations: special needs and concerns pain is the number one complaint of older americans, and one in five older  americans takes a painkiller regularly.
a brief history of pain ancient civilizations recorded on stone tablets accounts of pain and the  treatments used: pressure, heat, water, and sun.
morphine is one such drug.
while it is often dismissed as quackery and pseudoscience by skeptics, proponents offer the theory that magnets may effect changes in cells or body chemistry, thus producing pain relief.
what is the role of age and gender in pain?
a neurological examination in which the physician tests movement,  reflexes, sensation, balance, and coordination.
the most common destination in the brain for pain signals is the thalamus and from there to the cortex, the headquarters for complex thoughts.
in his research, the late john c. liebeskind, a renowned pain expert and a  professor of psychology at ucla, found that pain can kill by delaying healing  and causing cancer to spread.
the central nervous system (cns) refers to the brain and spinal cord together.
treatment for a damaged disc includes drugs such  as painkillers, muscle relaxants, and steroids; exercise or rest, depending on  the patient's condition; adequate support, such as a brace or better mattress  and physical therapy.
vascular pain affects millions of americans and occurs  when communication between blood vessels and nerves is interrupted.
this is a critical finding as it is important to retain the body's ability to detect potentially injurious stimuli.
in  1664, the french philosopher rené descartes described what to this day  is still called a "pain pathway."
antidepressants are sometimes used for the treatment of pain and, along with neuroleptics and lithium, belong to a category of drugs called psychotropic drugs.
using sophisticated imaging technologies, investigators can now visualize what is happening chemically in the spinal cord.
other  operations for pain includerhizotomy, in which a nerve close to the  spinal cord is cut, andcordotomy, where bundles of nerves within the  spinal cord are severed.
one area of the spinal cord in  particular, called thedorsal horn, is important in the reception of pain  signals.
for these individuals, a touch can be perceived as intense burning, indicating abnormal signals relayed to and from the brain.
blocking or interrupting pain signals,  especially when there is no injury or trauma to tissue, is an important goal in  the development of pain medications.
the panel members concluded that, because there are too few  scientific studies to prove marijuana's therapeutic utility for certain  conditions, additional research is needed.
nerve blocks nerve blocks may involve local anesthesia, regional anesthesia or  analgesia, or surgery; dentists routinely use them for traditional dental  procedures.
estrogen, therefore, may act as a sort of pain switch, turning on the ability to recognize pain.
occasionally, surgery is carried out with electrodes that selectively damage neurons in a targeted area of the brain.
for example, many individuals suffering from trigeminal neuralgia who are not responsive to drug treatment have had great success with a procedure called microvascular decompression, in which tiny blood vessels are surgically separated from surrounding nerves.
in 1997, scientists at the university of california at san francisco discovered a gene for a capsaicin receptor, called the vanilloid receptor.
depending on the injury, pain accompanying burns can  be excruciating, and even after the wound has healed patients may have chronic  pain at the burn site.
vascular pain affects millions of americans and occurs when communication between blood vessels and nerves is interrupted.
while many common orthopedic problems can be controlled with these four simple steps, especially when combined with over-the-counter pain relievers, more serious conditions may require surgery or physical therapy, including exercise, joint movement or manipulation, and stimulation of muscles.
the word analgesic is derived from ancient greek and means to reduce or stop pain.
it is sold over the counter and also comes in prescription-strength preparations.
aspirin may be the most widely used pain-relief agent and has been sold over the counter since 1905 as a treatment for fever, headache, and muscle soreness.
morphine can be administered in a variety of forms, including a pump for patient self-administration.
there are  several different types of surgical nerve blocks and they are not without  problems and complications.
or it's a dull ache above your brow after a day  of stress and tension.
pain is a  common symptom of many skin disorders, even the most common rashes.
early humans related pain to  evil, magic, and demons.
it is used for a limited number of conditions, including severe pain, central  pain syndrome, cancer pain, phantom limb pain, and other neuropathic pains.
neuralgia, as in trigeminal neuralgia, is a term that refers to pain that  arises from abnormal activity of a nerve trunk or its branches.
da vinci also developed the idea that  the spinal cord transmits sensations to the brain.
descartes illustrated how particles of fire, in contact with the foot, travel to the brain and he compared pain sensation to the ringing of a bell.
myofascial pain syndromes affect sensitive areas known as trigger points, located within the body's muscles.
although treating pain in pediatric patients poses a special challenge to physicians and parents alike, pediatric patients should never be undertreated.
nociceptors are thin nerve fibers in the skin, muscle, and other body tissues, that, when stimulated, carry pain signals to the spinal cord and brain.
these methods can be powerful and effective, according to those who advocate their use.
sometimes, as in the case of headaches, physicians find  that the best aid to diagnosis is the patient's own description of the type,  duration, and location of pain.
messages related to function (such as movement) or dysfunction (such as pain) travel from the brain to the spinal cord and from there to other regions in the body and back to the brain again.
their  pain is real and is often accompanied by other health problems, such as  depression.
the term takes its name from the sympathetic nervous system  and may involve, for example, cutting a nerve that controls contraction of one  or more arteries.
it works through the body's natural pain-killing machinery,  preventing pain messages from reaching the brain.
pain is a complex perception that  differs enormously among individual patients, even those who appear to have  identical injuries or illnesses.
a variety of medications, including analgesics, antidepressants, anticonvulsants, and electrical stimulation, are options available to central pain patients.
sometimes, relaxation and the use of imagery as a distraction provide relief.
physical therapy and rehabilitation date back to the ancient practice of using physical techniques and methods, such as heat, cold, exercise, massage, and manipulation, in the treatment of certain conditions.
these procedures rarely result in long-term pain relief, but both physician and patient may decide that the surgical procedure will be effective enough that it justifies the expense and risk.
the ags panel addressed the incorporation of several non-drug approaches in patients' treatment plans, including exercise.
it can—and often does—cause  severe problems for patients.
investigators have also learned that this receptor plays a role in the burning type of pain commonly associated with heat, such as the kind you experience when you touch your finger to a hot stove.
the greeks and romans were the first to advance a theory of sensation, the  idea that the brain and nervous system have a role in producing the perception  of pain.
there is also pain accompanying cancer and the pain that follows severe trauma, such as that associated with head and spinal cord injuries.
blocking or interrupting pain signals, especially when there is no injury or trauma to tissue, is an important goal in the development of pain medications.
for that reason, the procedure should be reserved for a select group of patients and should only be performed by skilled surgeons.
the peripheral nervous system also includes 12 pairs of cranial nerves  located on the underside of the brain.
in the eyes of many individuals campaigning on its behalf, marijuana rightfully belongs with other pain remedies.
receptors function much like gates or  ports and enable pain messages to pass through and on to neighboring cells.
in people who undergo an amputation, the representation of the  amputated limb is stored in the thalamus.
another operation for pain is thedorsal root entry zone operation, or drez, in which spinal neurons corresponding to the patient's pain are destroyed surgically.
a small number of people genetically  lack the enzyme cyp2d6; when given codeine, these individuals do not get pain  relief.
their pain is severe and is extremely difficult to treat effectively.
extensive animal studies will be required to  learn if this technique might be of value to humans with severe pain.
the condition may be the result of a number of factors, such as an injury to the jaw or joint misalignment, and may give rise to a variety of symptoms, most commonly pain in the jaw, face, and/or neck muscles.
when exposed to mild pain, these mice react in the  same way as mice that carry the missing gene.
when study participants move the stump of an amputated limb, neurons in the brain remain dynamic and excitable.
a number of causes, including infection or trauma, can result in inflammation of this membrane.
many other inflammatory diseases affect the body's soft tissues, including tendonitis and bursitis.
the thalamus also serves as the brain's storage area for images of the body and plays a key role in relaying messages between the brain and various parts of the body.
one  brain chemical of special interest to neuroscientists isglutamate.
in his pioneering research on the immune system and pain, dr. liebeskind studied the effects of stress-such as surgery-on the immune system and in particular on cells callednatural killer or nk cells.
this phenomenon is known  as phantom limb and accounts describing it date back to the 1800s.
placebos are inactive substances, such as sugar pills, or harmless procedures, such as saline injections or sham surgeries, generally used in clinical studies as control factors to help determine the efficacy of active treatments.
it works through the body's natural pain-killing machinery, preventing pain messages from reaching the brain.
the animals' behavior was completely normal; they no longer  exhibited signs of pain following injury or had an exaggerated pain response.
it is useful to distinguish between two basic types of pain, acute and chronic, and they differ greatly.
this condition is called central pain syndrome or, if the damage is in the thalamus (the brain's center for processing bodily sensations),thalamic pain syndrome.
investigators previously believed that brain cells affected by  amputation simply died off.
ongoing pain research, much of it supported by the ninds, continues to  reveal at an unprecedented pace fascinating insights into how genetics, the  immune system, and the skin contribute to pain responses.
some individuals find the burning sensation they  experience when using capsaicin cream to be intolerable, especially when they  are already suffering from a painful condition, such as postherpetic neuralgia.
trauma can occur after injuries in the home, at the workplace, during sports activities, or on the road.
for many years scientists have wanted to develop the ultimate drug-a drug that works as well as morphine but without its negative side effects.
continued research may result in a better understanding of how pain affects women differently from men, enabling new and better pain medications to be designed with gender in mind.
between the vertebrae are round, spongy pads of cartilage called discs that act much like shock absorbers.
migraines are characterized by throbbing pain and sometimes by  other symptoms, such as nausea and visual disturbances.
the following techniques each require specialized equipment and personnel  trained in the specific procedure being used: tens uses tiny electrical pulses, delivered through the skin to  nerve fibers, to cause changes in muscles, such as numbness or contractions.
for example, young  children may learn to respond to pain based on how they are treated when they  experience pain.
the body's natural painkillers may yet prove to be the most promising pain  relievers, pointing to one of the most important new avenues in drug  development.
from this work, new therapies may emerge, therapies that can help reduce or obliterate severe or chronic pain.
the ags panel addressed the incorporation of several non-drug approaches in  patients' treatment plans, including exercise.
recently, special tools for measuring pain in children have been  developed that, when combined with cues used by parents, help physicians select  the most effective treatments.
the dramatic changes that occur with injury and  persistent pain underscore that chronic pain should be considered a disease of  the nervous system, not just prolonged acute pain or a symptom of an injury.
there is  evidence that the proteins that are ultimately synthesized by these genes may  be targets for new therapies.
today, scientists understand a  great deal about the causes and mechanisms of pain, and research has produced  dramatic improvements in the diagnosis and treatment of a number of painful  disorders.
marijuana as a painkiller, marijuana or, by its latin name, cannabis,  continues to remain highly controversial.
drugs for migraine include  the triptans: sumatriptan (imitrix®), naratriptan (amerge®), and  zolmitriptan (zomig®).
in 1997, the national institutes of health held a workshop to discuss  research on the possible therapeutic uses for smoked marijuana.
it  works by reducing the amount of substance p found in nerve endings and  interferes with the transmission of pain signals to the brain.
neurotransmitters: just as mutations in genes may affect behavior,  they may also affect a number of neurotransmitters involved in the control of  pain.
chiropractic refers to hand manipulation of the spine, usually for relief of back pain, and is a treatment option that continues to grow in popularity among many people who simply seek relief from back disorders.
there are many different neurotransmitters in the human body; some play a  role in human disease and, in the case of pain, act in various combinations to  produce painful sensations in the body.
the link between the nervous and immune systems is an important one.
another promising area of research using the body's natural pain-killing  abilities is the transplantation of chromaffin cells into the spinal cords of  animals bred experimentally to develop arthritis.
in general, hypnosis is used to control physical function or response, that is, the amount of pain an individual can withstand.
scientists, working  with support from the ninds, believe the transplants help the animals recover  from pain-related cellular damage.
physician-scientists discovered that opium, morphine, codeine, and cocaine could be used to treat pain.
cox-2 inhibitors ("superaspirins") may be particularly effective for individuals with arthritis.
many pharmaceutical companies are working to synthesize these substances in laboratories as future medications.
types of surgical nerve blocks include: return to top information resourcesbrain public information and liaison branch national institute of dental and craniofacial research national institutes of health american chronic pain association (acpa) american pain foundation arthritis foundation return to topa-z of pain
they are calledserotonin agonists because  they mimic the action of endogenous (natural) serotonin and bind to specific  subtypes of serotonin receptors.
one of the  most vexing neurological disorders is shingles or herpes zoster, an infection  that often causes agonizing pain resistant to treatment.
magnets are increasingly popular with athletes who swear by their effectiveness for the control of sports-related pain and other painful conditions.
receptors on the skin trigger a series of events, beginning with an electrical impulse that travels from the skin to the spinal cord.
but when exposed to more severe pain, the mice exhibit a reduced pain response.
within days  of the injections, the targeted neurons, located in the outer layer of the  spinal cord along its entire length, absorbed the compound and were  neutralized.
this in turn  disrupts the cells' supply of trophic factors.
myofascial pain syndromes are  sometimes misdiagnosed and can be debilitating.
there is the pain of childbirth, the pain of a heart attack, and the pain that sometimes follows amputation of a limb.
it can result from diseases that affect nerves (such as diabetes) or from trauma, or, because chemotherapy drugs can affect nerves, it can be a consequence of cancer treatment.
neuropathic pain  can occur in any part of the body and is frequently described as a hot, burning  sensation, which can be devastating to the affected individual.
the three most common types of chronic headache are migraines, cluster headaches, and tension headaches.
return to top what is the role of age and gender in pain?
while many common orthopedic problems  can be controlled with these four simple steps, especially when combined with  over-the-counter pain relievers, more serious conditions may require surgery or  physical therapy, including exercise, joint movement or manipulation, and  stimulation of muscles.
the international association for the study of pain defines  it as:an unpleasant sensory and emotional experience associated with actual  or potential tissue damage or described in terms of such damage.
how hypnosis works is not fully understood.
treatment for a damaged disc includes drugs such as painkillers, muscle relaxants, and steroids; exercise or rest, depending on the patient's condition; adequate support, such as a brace or better mattress and physical therapy.
other operations for pain includerhizotomy, in which a nerve close to the spinal cord is cut, andcordotomy, where bundles of nerves within the spinal cord are severed.
or it's a dull ache above your brow after a day of stress and tension.
in the case of severe pain or pain  following surgery, acetaminophen may be combined with codeine.
acetaminophen is the basic ingredient found in tylenol® and its many generic equivalents.
scientists believe that following amputation,  nerve cells "rewire" themselves and continue to receive messages,  resulting in a remapping of the brain's circuitry.
although the operation can cause the spine to stiffen, resulting in lost flexibility, the procedure serves one critical purpose: protection of the spinal cord.
each comes with its own telltale brand of pain.
still, placebos are considered controversial because by definition  they are inactive and have no actual curative value.
p-have a reduced  response to severe pain.
similarly,  many amputees are frequently aware of severe pain in the absent limb.
surgical procedures for back problems includediscectomy or, when microsurgical techniques are used, microdiscectomy, in which the entire disc is removed; laminectomy , a procedure in which a surgeon removes only a disc fragment, gaining access by entering through the arched portion of a vertebra; and spinal fusion, a procedure where the entire disc is removed and replaced with a bone graft.
the  cord also has nerve roots and rootlets which form branch-like appendages  leading from its ventral side (that is, the front of the body) and from its  dorsal side (that is, the back of the body).
or you may recognize it as a sharp pierce in your back after you lift something heavy.
continued research on tachykinins, conducted with  support from the ninds, may pave the way for drugs tailored to treat different  severities of pain.
just as we know that stress contributes to pain, we also know that exercise, sleep, and relaxation can all help reduce stress, thereby helping to alleviate pain.
spinal cord stimulation uses electrodes surgically inserted within  the epidural space of the spinal cord.
temporomandibular disorders are conditions in which the temporomandibular joint (the jaw) is damaged and/or the muscles used for chewing and talking become stressed, causing pain.
arachnoiditis is a condition in which one of the three membranes covering the brain and spinal cord, called the arachnoid membrane, becomes inflamed.
plasticity: following injury, the nervous system undergoes a  tremendous reorganization.
in a spinal fusion, the two vertebrae are then fused together.
similarly, the use of relaxation techniques in the treatment of pain can increase the patient's feeling of well-being.
most relay messages of a sensory nature.
low-power lasers have been used occasionally by some physical  therapists as a treatment for pain, but like many other treatments, this method  is not without controversy.
it is divided into the sympathetic and parasympathetic  nervous systems.
channels: the frontier in the search for new drug targets is  represented by channels.
still, placebos are considered controversial because by definition they are inactive and have no actual curative value.
channels are gate-like passages found along the  membranes of cells that allow electrically charged chemical particles called  ions to pass into the cells.
acupuncture dates back 2,500 years and involves the application of  needles to precise points on the body.
whatever the treatment regime, it is important to remember that pain istreatable.
because there is a known link between many  types of chronic pain and tense, weak muscles, exercise-even light to moderate  exercise such as walking or swimming-can contribute to an overall sense of  well-being by improving blood and oxygen flow to muscles.
the column-like spinal cord is divided into segments similar to the corresponding vertebrae: cervical, thoracic, lumbar, sacral, and coccygeal.
another antiepileptic drug, gabapentin, is being studied  for its pain-relieving properties, especially as a treatment for neuropathic  pain.
patients and their physicians have a number of options for the treatment of pain; some are more effective than others.
investigators are not certain why kappa-opioids work better in women than men.
similarly, peptides, compounds that make up proteins in the body, play a role in pain responses.
sprains, strains, bruises, dislocations, and fractures are all well-known words in the language of sports.
surgical pain may require regional or general anesthesia during the  procedure and medications to control discomfort following the operation.
to top a pain primer: what do we know about pain?
there are many different names for the procedure,  depending on the technique or agent used.
if this work can be translated clinically, humans might be able to benefit from similar compounds introduced, for example, through lumbar (spinal) puncture.
neurolytic blocks employ injection of chemical agents such as alcohol, phenol, or glycerol to block pain messages and are most often used to treat cancer pain or to block pain in the cranial nerves.
treatments for phantom pain may include analgesics, anticonvulsants, and  other types of drugs; nerve blocks; electrical stimulation; psychological  counseling, biofeedback, hypnosis, and acupuncture; and, in rare instances,  surgery.
this suggests that the two peptides are involved in the production of pain sensations, especially moderate-to-severe pain.
sciatica is characterized by pain in the buttocks and can be caused by a number of factors.
electrical stimulation, no matter what form, involves a major surgical procedure and is not for everyone, nor is it 100 percent effective.
in the 19th century, pain came to dwell under a new domain-science-paving  the way for advances in pain therapy.
cyp2d6 also helps break down certain other drugs.
it can result  from diseases that affect nerves (such as diabetes) or from trauma, or, because  chemotherapy drugs can affect nerves, it can be a consequence of cancer  treatment.
within a week or so, rats receiving these transplants cease to exhibit telltale signs of pain.
muscle pain can range from an aching muscle, spasm, or strain, to  the severe spasticity that accompanies paralysis.
whether and how hypnosis works involves greater insight-and research-into the mechanisms underlying human consciousness.
they can have serious side effects in some  people and therefore, as with all prescription medicines, should be used only  under a doctor's care.
similarly, the use of relaxation techniques in  the treatment of pain can increase the patient's feeling of well-being.
for example, before a migraine headache, serotonin levels fall.
knockout animals can be used to  complement efforts aimed at developing new drugs.
in general, these chemicals, calledneurotransmitters, transmit nerve  impulses from one cell to another.
any of these injuries can result in  severe disability and pain.
gender and pain pain in aging and pediatric populations: special needs and concerns a pain primer: what do we know about pain?