© 1997-  a.d.a.m., inc.
sometimes doctors advise you to use both types of medicine.
bringing the future of healthcare home »
in children under 3 months of age, call your doctor first before giving  medicines.
call 911 for all medical emergencies.
fever • acute respiratory distress ...
- do not give aspirin to children unless your child's doctor tells you to use it.
eating and drinking your child should drink plenty of fluids.
a licensed medical professional should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and all medical conditions.
rosen's emergency medicine:  concepts and clinical practice.
children who are ill usually tolerate bland foods better.
most children will feel better when the temperature drops by even one degree.
your child has a serious medical illness, such as a heart problem, sickle  cell anemia, diabetes, or cystic fibrosis.
dilute these drinks by making them one half water and one half juice.
dilute these drinks  by making them one half water and one half juice.
take acetaminophen every 4 - 6 hours.
you may try: - breads, crackers, and pasta made with refined white flour - refined hot cereals, such as oatmeal and cream of wheat treating your child's fever do not bundle up a child with blankets or extra clothes, even if your child has the chills.
your child has other symptoms that suggest an illness may need to be  treated, such as a sore throat, earache, diarrhea, nausea or vomiting, or a  cough.
- what to expect - prepare for a visit - your rights in hospital follow-up visitors - directions & hours - important contact information - gift shop - patient greetings - visitor amenities - chaplaincy - admissions - main campus - pequot health center - flanders health center - old saybrook medical services - mystic outpatient services - waterford outpatient rehabilitation services - occupational health centers - lawrence & memorial at stonington - lawrence & memorial at crossroads, waterford - lawrence & memorial physicians physicians - medical staff office - physician opportunities - physician liaison program - research at l&m - quality & safety clinical professionals - nurses - therapists - technologists - classes & events - support programs - volunteer at l&m - give to l&m - auxiliary - community partnerships - patient safety - quality reporting - patient satisfaction - patient stories - research at l&m - accreditations & awards - newsroom - mission, vision & values - history of l&m - careers at l&m - board of directors - senior management team - l&m spotlights - financials - community benefits - affiliates lawrence & memorial hospital:
has been having fevers come and go for up to a week or more, even if they  are not very high.
© 1997- a.d.a.m., inc.
- cannot be awakened easily or at all - seems confused - cannot walk - has difficulty breathing, even after their nose is cleared - has blue lips, tongue, or nails - has a very bad headache -
many  older infants develop high fevers with even minor illnesses.
philadelphia, pa: mosby  elsevier;2009:chap 165.
acetaminophen (tylenol) and ibuprofen (advil, motrin) help lower fever in  children.
- do not give your child too much fruit or apple juice.
- has been having fevers come and go for up to a week or more, even if they are not very high.
rosen's emergency medicine: concepts and clinical practice.
- take ibuprofen every 6 - 8 hours.
- your child recently had an immunization.
your child recently had an immunization.
fortunately, most fevers are harmless and are caused by a mild infection or even over bundling a child.
any duplication or distribution of the information contained  herein is strictly prohibited.
take ibuprofen every 6 - 8 hours.
a licensed medical professional should be consulted for  diagnosis and treatment of any and all medical conditions.
in-depth reports •  colds and the flu more features • printer-friendly version when your baby or infant has a fever alternate names fever - infant; fever - baby what to expect at home
- your child has other symptoms that suggest an illness may need to be treated, such as a sore throat, earache, diarrhea, nausea or vomiting, or a cough.
regardless, you should report any fever in a newborn that is higher than 100.4 °f, taken rectally, to the child's health care provider.
- take acetaminophen every 4 - 6 hours.
call 911 for all  medical emergencies.
lawrence & memorial hospital:
has a stiff neck - refuses to move an arm or leg (children) - has a seizure - has a new rash or bruises appear references mick nw.
do not use ibuprofen in children younger than 6 months old.
the information provided herein should not be used during any medical emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition.
when your baby or infant has a fever frequently browsed conditions - actinic keratosis - manic depression - copd - parkinson's disease - insomnia
bringing the future of healthcare search - volunteers - careers - classes & events - gift shop - give to l&m - contact - conditions & services - patients & visitors - locations - healthcare professionals - community involvement - quality & safety - about l&m - find a doctor - share - reduce text - enlarge text - home / - conditions & services / - conditions • encyclopedia home • self-care a-z care points • colds and the flu - what to... care points •
links to other sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements of those other sites.
your child can eat foods while having a fever, but do not force the child  to eat.
call 911 if your child has a fever and: is crying and cannot be calmed down (children)
review date: 10/2/2010 reviewed by: neil k. kaneshiro, md, mha, clinical assistant professor of pediatrics, university of washington school of medicine.
has a seizure has a new rash or bruises appear references mick nw.
acetaminophen (tylenol) and ibuprofen (advil, motrin) help lower fever in children.
is under age 2 and has a fever that lasts longer than 24 - 48 hours - has a fever over 105 °f (40.5 °c), unless the fever comes down readily with treatment and the child is comfortable.
regardless, you should report any fever in a newborn that is higher than  100.4 °f, taken rectally, to the child's health care provider.
when to call the doctor talk to your child's doctor or go to the emergency room when: your child does not act alert or more comfortable when their fever goes  down fever symptoms come back after they had gone away there are no tears when they're crying
many older infants develop high fevers with even minor illnesses.
links to other sites are provided for information only --  they do not constitute endorsements of those other sites.
also reviewed by david zieve, md, mha, medical  director, a.d.a.m., inc.
phone:860.442.0711 © lawrence & memorial hospital
your child can eat foods while having a fever, but do not force the child to eat.
this may keep their fever from coming down, or make it higher.
a fever does not need to come all the way down to normal.
the first fever in a baby or an infant is often a scary moment for parents.
- in children under 3 months of age, call your doctor first before giving medicines.
philadelphia, pa: mosby elsevier;2009:chap 165.
- popsicles or gelatin (jello) are good choices, especially if the child is vomiting.
fortunately, most fevers are harmless and are caused by a mild infection or  even over bundling a child.
these often make the situation worse by causing shivering.
- heart disease - scoliosis - juvenile diabetes - influenza - hypothyroidism browse all conditions » core services - cardiac care - maternity care - cancer care - surgery - emergency care - occupational health care browse all services
do not use cold baths, ice, or alcohol rubs.
cannot be awakened easily or at all seems confused has difficulty breathing, even after their nose is cleared has blue lips, tongue, or nails has a very bad headache has a stiff neck refuses to move an arm or leg (children)
- know how much your child weighs, then always check the instructions on the package.
try one layer of lightweight clothing, and one lightweight blanket for  sleep.
in-depth reports • colds and the flu more features • printer-friendly version when your baby or infant has a fever alternate names fever - infant; fever - baby what to expect at home
their diapers are not wet, or they have not urinated for the last 8 hours your child: is younger than age 3 months and has a rectal temperature of 100.4 °f  (38 °c) or higher is age 3 - 12 months and has a fever of 102.2 °f (39 °c) or higher is under age 2 and has a fever that lasts longer than 24 - 48 hours has a fever over 105 °f (40.5 °c), unless the fever comes down  readily with treatment and the child is comfortable.
review date: 10/2/2010 reviewed by: neil k.  kaneshiro, md, mha, clinical assistant professor of pediatrics, university of  washington school of medicine.
fever is an important part of the body's defense against infection.
these often make the  situation worse by causing shivering.
- it works better if the child also receives medicine -- otherwise the temperature might bounce right back up.
- the room should be comfortable, not too hot or too cool.
however, most febrile seizures are over quickly, do not mean your child has epilepsy, and do not cause any permanent harm.
a bland diet is  made up of foods that are soft, not very spicy, and low in fiber.
do not give your child too much fruit or apple juice.
- try one layer of lightweight clothing, and one lightweight blanket for sleep.
do not use ibuprofen in children younger  than 6 months old.
you may try: breads, crackers, and pasta made with refined white flour refined hot cereals, such as oatmeal and cream of wheat treating your child's fever do not bundle up a child with blankets or extra clothes, even if your child  has the chills.
most children  will feel better when the temperature drops by even one degree.
bringing the future of healthcare - home » - terms of use » - privacy policy » - sitemap » - contact l&m » share this page lawrence & memorial 365 montauk avenue new london, ct 06320
if the room is  hot or stuffy, a fan may help.
however, most febrile seizures are over quickly, do not mean your child has  epilepsy, and do not cause any permanent harm.
febrile seizures are another fear of parents and do occur in some children.
when to call the doctor talk to your child's doctor or go to the emergency room when: - your child does not act alert or more comfortable when their fever goes down - fever symptoms come back after they had gone away - there are no tears when they're crying - their diapers are not wet, or they have not urinated for the last 8 hours - your child: - is younger than age 3 months and has a rectal temperature of 100.4 °f (38 °c) or higher -
- your child has a serious medical illness, such as a heart problem, sickle cell anemia, diabetes, or cystic fibrosis.
it works better if the child also receives medicine -- otherwise the  temperature might bounce right back up.
also reviewed by david zieve, md, mha, medical director, a.d.a.m., inc.
do not give aspirin to children unless your child's doctor tells you to  use it.
a lukewarm bath or sponge bath may help cool a fever.
if the room is hot or stuffy, a fan may help.
the information provided herein should not be  used during any medical emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any  medical condition.
call 911 if your child has a fever and: - is crying and cannot be calmed down (children)
know how much your child weighs, then always check the instructions on the  package.
» patients preparation - why l&m?
- do not use cold baths, ice, or alcohol rubs.
any duplication or distribution of the information contained herein is strictly prohibited.
a bland diet is made up of foods that are soft, not very spicy, and low in fiber.
popsicles or gelatin (jello) are good choices, especially if the child is  vomiting.
is age 3 - 12 months and has a fever of 102.2 °f (39 °c) or higher -
the room should be comfortable, not too hot or too cool.
colds and the flu - what to... read more • h1n1 (swine) influenza • flu • influenza vaccine • pneumonia • exercise - colds and flu... • immune response • nasal discharge • cough •