dress infants in a minimum of clothes and use a light blanket if they have chills.
it looks like an intense heat rash.
call your doctor immediately if the temperature is 100.4° f or greater.
- breathing rates and heart rates are increased with a fever.
- your child is having his or her first febrile seizure.
a toddler refuses to play, cries inconsolably, moans, appears very weak,  turns away and stares repeatedly, or is very hard to awaken if sleeping.
they occur in about 3 percent to 5 percent of the  population.
ibuprofen can be given to any child older than 6 months of age.
2-3 months ½ 12-17 lbs.
always measure the medicine with a dropper, dosage cup or other accurate  measuring device.
viruses are the most common cause of fever in childhood.
again, how sick your child  seems is more important than whether or not the fever comes down to normal.
- fevers are usually caused by viruses or bacteria.
no tears when crying back to top when to call your doctor immediately call for advice if: call during office hours (monday through friday, 8 a.m. to 5 p.m.)
there is a fever for two to three days and then as the fever goes away, a rash develops.
when a child has a fever, the main concern is how sick your child seems.
never use alcohol or ice in the bath.
make sure the over-the-counter  cold medicine does not already contain acetaminophen or ibuprofen, otherwise  you could be giving your child a double dose.
there is a fever for two to three days and then as the  fever goes away, a rash develops.
(if possible, decide if your child is sick an hour after giving him or  her acetaminophen or ibuprofen.)
or cc (milliliters or cubic centimeters).
4) degree of sickness how sick your child seems is more important than how high the fever is running.
again, how sick your child seems is more important than whether or not the fever comes down to normal.
they are typically brief, lasting only three to five minutes.
these brief febrile seizures do  not cause brain damage.
it is mostly on the neck and body and  lasts one to two days.
the treatment involves controlling the fever aggressively with acetaminophen or ibuprofen.
your child has purple spots on the skin that are large or pinpoint, and do  not fade with pressure.
- liquid medicines may be mixed in with soft foods or liquids.
liquid medicines may be mixed in with soft foods or liquids.
sometimes, an overbundled infant may have a slight elevation of  temperature.
signs of dehydration in children include: - no urine output in 8 to 12 hours - listlessness - dry cracked lips and/or mouth -
sponging may cause shivering and may be uncomfortable.
we do not advise alternating between tylenol and motrin when your child has a fever.
seizures associated with fevers only occur in about 3 to 5 percent of the  population and these are called febrile seizures.
one  advantage of ibuprofen is the longer-lasting effect of six to eight hours of  fever reduction.
they donot treat the underlying illness.
sometimes, an overbundled infant may have a slight elevation of temperature.
2) less clothing children should not be  over-bundled when they have a fever, as this tends to raise their temperature.
see dosage charts below.
& over 12 years 4 please remember that this advice is for educational purposes and should only be used as a guide.
- your child has difficulty breathing, unless it is due to a stuffy nose.
one advantage of ibuprofen is the longer-lasting effect of six to eight hours of fever reduction.
call your doctor immediately if the temperature is 100.4° f or  greater.
the height of the fever alone does not indicate the seriousness of the infection.
6-8 years 2 4 2 60-71 lbs.
- your child has a stiff neck or headache and fever.
11 years 3 6 3 95 lbs.
heat stroke is a  life-threatening emergency associated with temperatures over 106° f  (41° c) and confusion, and is usually brought on by vigorous exercise in  the heat.
heat stroke is a life-threatening emergency associated with temperatures over 106° f (41° c) and confusion, and is usually brought on by vigorous exercise in the heat.
ibuprofen children's motrin and motrin oral drops,  advil and generic ibuprofen products are available over the counter.
fever reducing medications fever medicines help to bring a fever down and make a child more comfortable.
5) promote liquids and rest we all need to sleep more whenever our bodies fight an infection.
once the fever is gone for 24 hours, the child is not contagious.
paracetamol  is generally the form of acetaminophen sold in other countries.
11 years 3 6 3 95 lbs.& over 12 years 4 advil and motrin are available as infant drops (50mg/1.25ml) or children's liquid (100 mg/teaspoon=100 mg/5ml).
temperature strips on the forehead are inaccurate.
chewables may  be crushed and added to food, such as pudding, yogurt, applesauce and peanut  butter.
liquids are important  because we sweat more when we have fevers.
your child has a stiff neck or headache and fever.
back to top join the conversation: follow @paloaltomedical © 2012 palo alto medical foundation.
chewables may be crushed and added to food, such as pudding, yogurt, applesauce and peanut butter.
lukewarm washcloths or sponges rubbed briskly over the skin with the  child in two inches of water is the best technique.
they occur in about 3 percent to 5 percent of the population.
keep in mind that some children can be seriously ill without any  fever.
they may happen  with any type of infection that causes a fever.
never use  alcohol or ice in the bath.
typically, the seizure occurs when the fever is rapidly increasing.
if your child is resting comfortably, there is no need to wake him or her to give acetaminophen, unless your child is prone to febrile seizures.
do not give over-the-counter cold medicine to your child younger than 2 months of age unless instructed to do so by your doctor.
once they have contacted their doctor, many  parents find out they have not given their child enough acetaminophen or  ibuprofen.
they may happen with any type of infection that causes a fever.
keep in mind that some children can be seriously ill without any fever.
4) degree of sickness how sick your child seems  is more important than how high the fever is running.
the child keeps falling asleep without periods of activity; remember, sick  children do tend to sleep more.
febrile seizures - fever lasts more than four days - other symptoms include an earache, sore throat, urinary burning or frequency or persistent cough - fever is more than 100.4° f, especially if the child is younger than 2 years old these are usually harmless and occur most often from 5 months to 5 years of age, although they may occur after 6 years of age.
received mmr (measles-mumps-rubella) or varivax (chickenpox vaccine) in  the last 7 to 21 days back to top home care 1)
an older child will engage in quiet activities like coloring or reading.
sponge baths may be useful with heatstroke, confusion associated  with high fevers, or in children who are prone to febrile seizures.
the behaviors listed below probably indicate that a baby or child is not seriously ill.
any first febrile seizure should be evaluated by a physician to rule out the possibility of meningitis or other serious illness.
- your child is difficult to arouse, confused or delirious.
breathing rates and heart rates are increased with a fever.
this is much more important than the height of the fever.
back to top facts fevers are most worrisome in children less than 3 months of age.
4-5 years 1½ 3 48-59 lbs.
there is often a family member who had febrile seizures as a child.
to assess how sick a  child is when he or she has a fever, give an appropriate dose of acetaminophen  or ibuprofen (see chart below), and see how he or she is behaving about one to  two hours after the dose.
mild  symptoms can include muscle cramps, stomachache and headache.
sponging sponge baths are usually not necessary for low-grade fevers.
- an older child will engage in quiet activities like coloring or reading.
sponging sponge baths are usually not  necessary for low-grade fevers.
external sources of heat can be dangerous.
mix the medicines with a small amount of food or drink, so you can be  sure the child takes it all.
dress infants in a minimum of clothes and use a light blanket if they have  chills.
if you suspect this, undress and retake their temperature in about  one hour.
unwrap your baby and retake the temperature in a half hour.
- an older child refuses to talk and won't interact or is unable to get out of bed.
- always measure the medicine with a dropper, dosage cup or other accurate measuring device.
if your baby is less than 3 months of age, and you are concerned that he or she feels warm, take a rectal temperature, which is definitely the most accurate method for infants.
an older child refuses to talk and won't interact or is unable to get out  of bed.
- a toddler refuses to play, cries inconsolably, moans, appears very weak, turns away and stares repeatedly, or is very hard to awaken if sleeping.
children are more prone to  dehydration compared to adults.
fevers are usually caused by viruses or bacteria.
- a toddler will pay attention to activities, smile, walk around to get things.
12-23 months 1½ ¾ 24-35 lbs.
9-10 years 2½ 5 2½ 72-95 lbs.
there is no specific treatment for the rash.
your child is constantly crying, irritable, inconsolable and behaving  sick.
viruses are the most  common cause of fever in childhood.
serving communities around palo alto, mountain view, fremont, san jose, san francisco, oakland, dublin, san mateo & santa cruz.
- ibuprofen children's motrin and motrin oral drops, advil and generic ibuprofen products are available over the counter.
some children with complicated, frequent or prolonged febrile seizures require prescription anti-seizure medicines.
they are generally harmless.
the rash is flat and pink or slightly raised  dots.
once they have contacted their doctor, many parents find out they have not given their child enough acetaminophen or ibuprofen.
do not give tylenol to infants younger than 2 months of age with a fever  without notifying your doctor's office first.
high fevers are not usually dangerous.
- the child keeps falling asleep without periods of activity; remember, sick children do tend to sleep more.
because a child has a history of febrile seizures does not mean he or she will have epilepsy as an adult.
back to top temperature equivalents celsius fahrenheit 36.6 97.8 37.0 normal 98.6 37.6 99.6 38.0 100.4 38.6 101.4 39.0 102.2 39.6 103.2 40.0 104.0 40.6 105.1 41.0 105.8 back to top acetaminophen and ibuprofen dosage charts do not give acetaminophen to a baby younger than 3 months of age unless directed by your doctor.
- give a dosage accourding to your child's weight, not age.
high fevers are not  usually dangerous.
- teething does not cause a significant fever (not greater than 100.4° f).
your child is drooling more than usual and having difficulty swallowing.
these products  may be used to make a child more comfortable, but they do not treat the  underlying illness.
- a baby will coo, make eye contact, smile or reach for an object.
some children who are not responding well to acetaminophen may  respond better to ibuprofen.
the rash is flat and pink or slightly raised dots.
- temperature strips on the forehead are inaccurate.
some children who are not responding well to acetaminophen may respond better to ibuprofen.
tips on giving medicines correctly - acetaminophen tylenol, liquiprin, tempra, panadol, anacin-3 and generic store brands are all acetaminophen products.
this is because of the past association linking reye's syndrome to aspirin usage in children with chicken pox or influenza.
kitchen teaspoons used for cooking are not accurate.
a toddler will pay attention to activities, smile, walk around to get  things.
your child has difficulty breathing, unless it is due to a stuffy nose.
a baby will coo, make eye contact, smile or reach for an object.
- seizures associated with fevers only occur in about 3 to 5 percent of the population and these are called febrile seizures.
within one to  two hours after taking the medicine, the fever is usually down by 2 to 3°  f. the temperature does not always return to normal.
acetaminophen or ibuprofen may be given with other medicines, such as  antibiotics or over-the-counter cold medicines.
make sure the over-the-counter cold medicine does not already contain acetaminophen or ibuprofen, otherwise you could be giving your child a double dose.
there is often a family member who had  febrile seizures as a child.
the fever may not necessarily return to normal but is often lower.
when to call your doctor temperature equivalents acetaminophen and ibuprofen dosage charts definition a fever is a body temperature higher than a normal temperature of  98.6° f. fever is a healthy way in which the body fights infection.
it is mostly on the neck and body and lasts one to two days.
at this  age, a child with a rectal temperature of 100.4° f or greater should be  seen by a doctor immediately.
call during office hours (monday through friday, 8 a.m. to 5 p.m.)
2-3 years 2 1 2 36-47 lbs.
sutter health is a registered trademark of sutter health®, reg. u.s. patent.
heat illness occurs because of  excess heat exposure.
liquids are important because we sweat more when we have fevers.
about 10 percent of viruses cause fever and rash.
mix the medicines with a small amount of food or drink, so you can be sure the child takes it all.
pick one of the medicines to use that you think works better for your child.
to assess how sick a child is when he or she has a fever, give an appropriate dose of acetaminophen or ibuprofen (see chart below), and see how he or she is behaving about one to two hours after the dose.
a common viral infection called roseola affects infants from 6 months to  about 3 years of age.
within one to two hours after taking the medicine, the fever is usually down by 2 to 3° f. the temperature does not always return to normal.
because a child has a history of febrile seizures does not mean he or she will  have epilepsy as an adult.
the behaviors listed below may indicate a serious illness despite fever reduction.
heat illness occurs because of excess heat exposure.
fevers of 100.4° f or greater in any baby younger than 3 months of age may be a sign of serious illness, and you should call your doctor immediately.
- a baby is not making eye contact, continuously cries and cannot be comforted.
- ear thermometers are not very reliable in children less than 6 months of age, or for temperatures over 102° f. - high fevers do not cause brain damage unless greater than 107° f or associated with diseases that affect the brain, like meningitis (an infection of the fluid that covers the brain and spinal cord).
- acetaminophen (tylenol) for fever or pain weight age infant suspension & drops children's suspension & elixir children's chewable tablets jr. strength chewable tablets/ caplets 80 mg/0.8ml 160 mg/5ml 80 mg each 160 mg each dropperful teaspoon tablet tablet/caplet 6-11 lbs.
teething does not cause a significant fever (not greater than 100.4°  f).
this is because of the past association linking reye's syndrome to  aspirin usage in children with chicken pox or influenza.
lukewarm washcloths or sponges rubbed briskly over the skin with the child in two inches of water is the best technique.
- aspirin aspirin is generally not recommended for children.
- do not give tylenol to infants younger than 2 months of age with a fever without notifying your doctor's office first.
fever reducing medications fever medicines  help to bring a fever down and make a child more comfortable.
about 10  percent of viruses cause fever and rash.
at this age, a child with a rectal temperature of 100.4° f or greater should be seen by a doctor immediately.
tips on giving medicines correctly give a dosage accourding to your child's weight, not age.
a baby is not making eye contact, continuously cries and cannot be  comforted.
the treatment involves controlling the fever  aggressively with acetaminophen or ibuprofen.
- your child is constantly crying, irritable, inconsolable and behaving sick.
they may be given every four to six hours.
acetaminophen tylenol, liquiprin, tempra, panadol,  anacin-3 and generic store brands are all acetaminophen products.
do not give over-the-counter cold  medicine to your child younger than 2 months of age unless instructed to do so  by your doctor.
the fever may not necessarily return to normal but is  often lower.
signs of dehydration in  children include: no urine output in 8 to 12 hours listlessness dry cracked lips and/or mouth no tears when crying when to call your doctor immediately call for advice if: your child is younger than 3 months old and has a temperature of  100.4° f or greater.
(if possible, decide if your child is sick an hour after giving him or her acetaminophen or ibuprofen.)
give acetaminophen or ibuprofen if your  child: received dpt (dipththeria-pertussis-tetanus) injection in last 24 hours
one teaspoon = 5 ml.
stop or raise the water temperature if the child is  shivering.
- your child has purple spots on the skin that are large or pinpoint, and do not fade with pressure.
- external sources of heat can be dangerous.
- one teaspoon = 5 ml.
these brief febrile seizures do not cause brain damage.
ear thermometers are not very reliable in children less than 6 months of  age, or for temperatures over 102° f. high fevers do not cause brain damage unless greater than 107° f or  associated with diseases that affect the brain, like meningitis (an infection  of the fluid that covers the brain and spinal cord).
if: fever lasts more than four days other symptoms include an earache, sore throat, urinary burning or  frequency or persistent cough fever is more than 100.4° f, especially if the child is younger than 2  years old febrile seizures these are  usually harmless and occur most often from 5 months to 5 years of age, although  they may occur after 6 years of age.
if your baby is less than 3  months of age, and you are concerned that he or she feels warm, take a rectal temperature, which is definitely the most accurate method for  infants.
if: - your child is younger than 3 months old and has a temperature of 100.4° f or greater.
the height of the fever alone does not indicate the  seriousness of the infection.
pick one of  the medicines to use that you think works better for your child.
2) less clothing children should not be over-bundled when they have a fever, as this tends to raise their temperature.
sponging may cause shivering and may be  uncomfortable.
if you suspect this, undress and retake their temperature in about one hour.
back to top facts give acetaminophen or ibuprofen if your child: - fevers are most worrisome in children less than 3 months of age.
- received dpt (dipththeria-pertussis-tetanus) injection in last 24 hours - received mmr (measles-mumps-rubella) or varivax (chickenpox vaccine) in the last 7 to 21 days back to top home care 1)
- acetaminophen or ibuprofen may be given with other medicines, such as antibiotics or over-the-counter cold medicines.
these products may be used to make a child more comfortable, but they do not treat the underlying illness.
- a common viral infection called roseola affects infants from 6 months to about 3 years of age.
paracetamol is generally the form of acetaminophen sold in other countries.
- ibuprofen (advil or motrin) for fever, pain or swelling weight age infant suspension & drops children's suspension & elixir children's chewable tablets jr. strength chewable tablets/caplets 50mg/1.25ml 100 mg/5ml 50 mg each 100mg each dropperful teaspoon tablet tablet/caplet 12-17 lbs.
skip navigation display mode: - choose default style - choose high contrast - children's home - pamf home - search site search section titlecommon concerns - common concerns - for newborns - well-child visits - parents of teens - medicine cabinet - forms main content - treating fever - asthma resources - bike helmets - constipation - development information - developmental questionnaires - behavior & parenting issues - fitness & nutrition - skin problems treating fever - definition - facts - home care - when to call your doctor - temperature equivalents - acetaminophen and ibuprofen dosage charts definition - a fever is a body temperature higher than a normal temperature of 98.6° f. - fever is a healthy way in which the body fights infection.
stop or raise the water temperature if the child is shivering.
children are more prone to dehydration compared to adults.
your child is difficult to arouse, confused or delirious.
any first febrile seizure should be evaluated by a  physician to rule out the possibility of meningitis or other serious illness.
if your baby is bundled, this can cause an elevated temperatuare.
we do not advise  alternating between tylenol and motrin when your child has a fever.
5) promote liquids and rest we all need to  sleep more whenever our bodies fight an infection.
there is a range of severity of this disease.
sponge baths may be useful with heatstroke, confusion associated with high fevers, or in children who are prone to febrile seizures.
your child is having his or her first febrile seizure.
4-11 months 1 ½ 18-23 lbs.
6-11 months 1 ½ 18-23 lbs.
aspirin aspirin is generally not recommended for  children.
once the fever is gone for 24 hours, the child is not  contagious.
seefebrile seizures below.
mild symptoms can include muscle cramps, stomachache and headache.
if  your child is resting comfortably, there is no need to wake him or her to give  acetaminophen, unless your child is prone to febrile seizures.
some children with complicated,  frequent or prolonged febrile seizures require prescription anti-seizure  medicines.
- your child is drooling more than usual and having difficulty swallowing.