continual  high dosages of aspirin can cause hearing loss or tinnitis--a persistent  ringing in the ears.
the warning labels on these products include limitations on duration of use to ensure that chronic or serious illnesses are not masked.
choosing an otc reliever involves balancing  effectiveness for a particular ailment with side effects.
the lowest dosage  strength for prescription-strength ibuprofen (motrin and others) is 300 mg per  tablet, and 275 mg per tablet for the prescription version of naproxen sodium  (anaprox, for example).
though acetaminophen is no better or faster at relief than aspirin, the drug is gentler on the stomach and reduces fever without the risk of reyes syndrome.
"in addition, the pharmaceutical companies had to  show that these drugs were safe for use by a larger, more varied group of  people [than would have received them by prescription only] and that the drugs  were safe to use without medical supervision, as is the case with all  nonprescription drugs."
to minimize the stomach irritation aspirin can cause, some brands are  "buffered" with calcium carbonate, magnesium oxide, and other  antacids or coated so the pills don't dissolve until they reach the small  intestine.
the label also alerts pregnant women that use of aspirin in the last  trimester may increase the risk of stillbirth and of maternal and fetal  bleeding during delivery.
however, they are more potent relievers, especially for menstrual cramps, toothaches, minor arthritis, and injuries accompanied by inflammation, such as tendinitis.
"nobody knows exactly how acetaminophen works, but one theory is that it acts on nerve endings to suppress pain," says weintraub.
"ibuprofen and naproxen sodium  were converted to otc status after their manufacturers did the necessary  studies to show that these relievers were effective at otc dosages, which are  lower than prescription dosages," explains weintraub.
"there is no evidence that caffeine relieves pain , but it can enhance the effects of aspirin, possibly by lifting a person's mood," says michael weintraub, m.d., director of fda's office of otc drug evaluation.
reprinted with the permission of: food and drug administration hfi-40 rockville, md 20857
the usual adult dosage is two 325-mg tablets every four hours.
the label also alerts pregnant women that use of aspirin in the last trimester may increase the risk of stillbirth and of maternal and fetal bleeding during delivery.
in addition, asthmatics and  people who are allergic to aspirin should avoid ibuprofen and naproxen sodium.
acetaminophen-based products to ease menstrual cramps often contain other ingredients, such as pamabrom (a diuretic) orpyrilamine maleate (an antihistamine used for its sedative effects).
"knowing  the pros and cons of each type of reliever will allow you to choose among  them," says william t. beaver, m.d., professor of pharmacology and  anesthesia at georgetown university school of medicine in washington, d.c. old faithful americans have been reaching for  aspirin for almost 100 years as an all-purpose  reliever (see  "aspirin:
continual high dosages of aspirin can cause hearing loss or tinnitis--a persistent ringing in the ears.
typically, labels advise against taking the product for more than 10 days to relieve pain (for children, the upper limit is five days), or more than three days to reduce fever.
from prescription to over-the-counter like aspirin, ibuprofen and naproxen sodium inhibit prostaglandin  production.
some manufacturers add caffeine to aspirin.
the usual  adult (defined as12 years and older) dosage is one to two 325-mg aspirin  tablets every four hours.
the lowest dosage strength for prescription-strength ibuprofen (motrin and others) is 300 mg per tablet, and 275 mg per tablet for the prescription version of naproxen sodium (anaprox, for example).
however, people who have ulcers or who  get gi upset when taking aspirin should avoid both.
aspirin also causes gastrointestinal (gi) upset indirectly (by inhibiting production of a prostaglandin that protects the stomach lining by stimulating mucus production); buffering does nothing to offset this effect.
acetaminophen-based products to ease menstrual cramps often  contain other ingredients, such as pamabrom (a diuretic) orpyrilamine maleate  (an antihistamine used for its sedative effects).
children under 12 should not be given either drug, except under a doctor's  supervision, and people over 65 are advised to take no more than one naproxen  sodium tablet every 12 hours.
an fda advisory panel has recommended labeling on ibuprofen products like that recommended for aspirin, warning heavy drinkers about increased risk of gastric bleeding and impaired liver function (products with naproxen sodium labels already include this information).
taken at the recommended adult dosage, otc ibuprofen (advil and others) and naproxen sodium (aleve) are somewhat gentler on the stomach than aspirin.
though this cornucopia can seem confusing, the products' relieving ingredients fall into just four categories: aspirin (and other salicylates), acetaminophen, ibuprofen, and naproxen sodium.
acetaminophen is as effective as aspirin in relieving mild-to-moderate pain and in reducing fever, but less so when it comes to soft tissue injuries, such as muscle strains and sprains, he adds.
fda approved ibuprofen for otc marketing in 1984 at a dosage level of 200 mg every 4 to 6 hours, and naproxen sodium in1994 at a dosage level of 200 mg every 8 to 12 hours.
from prescription to over-the-counter like aspirin, ibuprofen and naproxen sodium inhibit prostaglandin production.
regardless of which type of otc reliever you choose, remember that it is intended to be used on a short-term basis, unless directed by a doctor, cautions weintraub.
for the most part, these  over-the-counter (otc) analgesic ingredients are equally effective.
an fda advisory panel has recommended labeling on ibuprofen products like that  recommended for aspirin, warning heavy drinkers about increased risk of gastric  bleeding and impaired liver function (products with naproxen sodium labels  already include this information).
they may be useful for people who get heartburn or stomach pain when they take aspirin, as well as for those with arthritis, who need to take as much as 4,000 mg every day.
home    learn  about pain    living with pain     treatment options    medication over-the-counter options one aspirin alternative from prescription to over-the-counter used to be, aspirin and  other salicylates were the only medications available for nonprescription  relief of minor ailments--from headaches and fever to muscle strain and minor  arthritis.
fda requires products containing aspirin and other  salicylates to carry a label warning that children and teenagers should not use  the medicine for chickenpox or flu symptoms because of its association with  reyes syndrome, a rare disorder that may cause seizures, brain damage, and  death.
aspirin (oracetylsalicylic acid) works in part by suppressing the  production of prostaglandins, hormone-like substances that have wide-ranging  roles throughout the body, such as stimulating uterine contractions, regulating  body temperature and blood vessel constriction, and helping blood clotting.
"in addition, the pharmaceutical companies had to show that these drugs were safe for use by a larger, more varied group of people [than would have received them by prescription only] and that the drugs were safe to use without medical supervision, as is the case with all nonprescription drugs."
a new look at an old drug" in the january-february 1994 fda  consumer).
though this  cornucopia can seem confusing, the products' relieving ingredients fall into  just four categories: aspirin (and other salicylates), acetaminophen,  ibuprofen, and naproxen sodium.
however, some may be more effective for certain types of ailments, and some people may prefer one type to another because of their varying side effects.
"nobody knows  exactly how acetaminophen works, but one theory is that it acts on nerve  endings to suppress  pain," says weintraub.
however, even at moderate doses, acetaminophen can cause liver damage in heavy drinkers.
"while these ingredients  are safe, they have not been proven effective against uterine cramps, although  they may relieve other symptoms associated with menstrual pain." says  weintraub.
aspirin should not be taken by people who have: - ulcers,  because it can worsen symptoms - asthma, because it can trigger an attack  in some asthmatics - uncontrolled high blood pressure, because of an  increased risk of one type of stroke - liver or kidney disease, because it  may worsen these conditions - bleeding disorders or who are taking  anticoagulant medication, because it may cause bleeding.
aspirin should not be taken by people who have: - ulcers, because it can worsen symptoms - asthma, because it can trigger an attack in some asthmatics - uncontrolled high blood pressure, because of an increased risk of one type of stroke - liver or kidney disease, because it may worsen these conditions - bleeding disorders or who are taking anticoagulant medication, because it may cause bleeding.
at press time, fda was planning to require a warning about this on the labels of otc products containing the drug.
last  september, an fda advisory panel recommended that labels on products containing  aspirin warn that heavy drinkers are especially vulnerable to developing gi  bleeding.
however, even at moderate doses, acetaminophen can cause  liver damage in heavy drinkers.
to minimize the stomach irritation aspirin can cause, some brands are "buffered" with calcium carbonate, magnesium oxide, and other antacids or coated so the pills don't dissolve until they reach the small intestine.
one aspirin alternative twenty years ago, fda approved acetaminophen (tylenol, and other brands and  generics) in dosages of 325 mg and 500 mg for otc use.
"while these ingredients are safe, they have not been proven effective against uterine cramps, although they may relieve other symptoms associated with menstrual pain." says weintraub.
since a two-tablet dose provides roughly the same amount of caffeine as a cup of coffee, you can get the same effect by taking two plain aspirin with coffee.
"regular" strength aspirin contains 325 milligrams (mg) per tablet;  "extra" or "maximum" strength, 500 mg per tablet.
ruth papazian is a writer in new york city.
"regular" strength aspirin contains 325 milligrams (mg) per tablet; "extra" or "maximum" strength, 500 mg per tablet.
last september, an fda advisory panel recommended that labels on products containing aspirin warn that heavy drinkers are especially vulnerable to developing gi bleeding.
although ibuprofen and naproxen sodium interfere with blood clotting much less than aspirin does, they should not be used by people who have bleeding disorders or who are taking anticoagulants.
reprinted with the permission of: food and drug administration
however,  some may be more effective for certain types of ailments, and some people may  prefer one type to another because of their varying side effects.
the warning labels on these products include  limitations on duration of use to ensure that chronic or serious illnesses are  not masked.
choosing an otc reliever involves balancing effectiveness for a particular ailment with side effects.
aspirin also causes  gastrointestinal (gi) upset indirectly (by inhibiting production of a  prostaglandin that protects the stomach lining by stimulating mucus  production); buffering does nothing to offset this effect.
aspirin (oracetylsalicylic acid) works in part by suppressing the production of prostaglandins, hormone-like substances that have wide-ranging roles throughout the body, such as stimulating uterine contractions, regulating body temperature and blood vessel constriction, and helping blood clotting.
children under 12 should not be given either drug, except under a doctor's supervision, and people over 65 are advised to take no more than one naproxen sodium tablet every 12 hours.
for the most part, these over-the-counter (otc) analgesic ingredients are equally effective.
"knowing the pros and cons of each type of reliever will allow you to choose among them," says william t. beaver, m.d., professor of pharmacology and anesthesia at georgetown university school of medicine in washington, d.c. old faithful americans have been reaching for aspirin for almost 100 years as an all-purpose reliever (see "aspirin: a new look at an old drug" in the january-february 1994 fda consumer).
in addition, asthmatics and people who are allergic to aspirin should avoid ibuprofen and naproxen sodium.
though acetaminophen is no better or faster at relief than  aspirin, the drug is gentler on the stomach and reduces fever without the risk  of reyes syndrome.
today, consumers looking for temporary relief from such garden-variety ills have their pick of what can be a bewildering array of "regular," "extra-strength," and "maximum relief" tablets, caplets and gel caps on the drugstore shelf.
the usual adult (defined as12 years and older) dosage is one to two 325-mg aspirin tablets every four hours.
today, consumers looking for temporary relief from such  garden-variety ills have their pick of what can be a bewildering array of  "regular," "extra-strength," and "maximum  relief" tablets, caplets and gel caps on the drugstore shelf.
buffered formulas may offset aspirin'sdirectly irritating effects on  the stomach lining.
one aspirin alternative twenty years ago, fda approved acetaminophen (tylenol, and other brands and generics) in dosages of 325 mg and 500 mg for otc use.
"ibuprofen and naproxen sodium were converted to otc status after their manufacturers did the necessary studies to show that these relievers were effective at otc dosages, which are lower than prescription dosages," explains weintraub.
if symptoms worsen, pain persists,  or there is redness or swelling, medical attention should be sought.
acetaminophen is as  effective as aspirin in relieving mild-to-moderate pain and in reducing  fever, but less so when it comes to soft tissue injuries, such as muscle  strains and sprains, he adds.
often this is a very  individual choice, based in part on your health history and how the drug  affects you.
although ibuprofen and naproxen sodium  interfere with blood clotting much less than aspirin does, they should not be  used by people who have bleeding disorders or who are taking anticoagulants.
they may be useful for people who get heartburn or stomach  pain when they take aspirin, as well as for those with arthritis, who  need to take as much as 4,000 mg every day.
fda approved ibuprofen for otc marketing in 1984 at a  dosage level of 200 mg every 4 to 6 hours, and naproxen sodium in1994 at a  dosage level of 200 mg every 8 to 12 hours.
regardless of which type of otc reliever you choose, remember  that it is intended to be used on a short-term basis, unless directed by a  doctor, cautions weintraub.
at press time, fda was planning to require a  warning about this on the labels of otc products containing the drug.
since a two-tablet dose provides roughly the same amount of caffeine as a  cup of coffee, you can get the same effect by taking two plain aspirin with  coffee.
typically, labels advise against taking the product for more than  10 days to relieve pain (for children, the upper limit is five days), or  more than three days to reduce fever.
fda requires products containing aspirin and other salicylates to carry a label warning that children and teenagers should not use the medicine for chickenpox or flu symptoms because of its association with reyes syndrome, a rare disorder that may cause seizures, brain damage, and death.
the downside of coated aspirin products is that they may take up to twice as long to provide relief as plain aspirin, according to weintraub.
the usual adult dosage is two 325-mg tablets  every four hours.
"there is no evidence that caffeine relieves pain , but it can  enhance the effects of aspirin, possibly by lifting a person's mood," says  michael weintraub, m.d., director of fda's office of otc drug evaluation.
buffered formulas may offset aspirin'sdirectly irritating effects on the stomach lining.
if symptoms worsen, pain persists, or there is redness or swelling, medical attention should be sought.
however, people who have ulcers or who get gi upset when taking aspirin should avoid both.
however, they are more potent relievers, especially for menstrual  cramps, toothaches, minor arthritis, and injuries accompanied by inflammation,  such as tendinitis.
contents: old faithful one aspirin alternative from prescription to over-the-counter used to be, aspirin and other salicylates were the only medications available for nonprescription relief of minor ailments--from headaches and fever to muscle strain and minor arthritis.
taken at the recommended adult dosage, otc  ibuprofen (advil and others) and naproxen sodium (aleve) are somewhat gentler  on the stomach than aspirin.
the downside of  coated aspirin products is that they may take up to twice as long to provide   relief as plain aspirin, according to weintraub.
often this is a very individual choice, based in part on your health history and how the drug affects you.