rectal is most often used with infants and is the most accurate method.
it is important to note that these over-the-counter medications and home remedies do not cure the fever or the underlying medical ailment.
these help to lower a high  fever, but will not cure it.
when the fever occurs, there are feelings of chilliness, stiffness and shivering caused by the body generating heat until the blood around the hypothalamus reaches the new, elevated set point.
posted on the 10 may, 2010 at 12:47 pm written by admin in conditions fever, also known as pyrexia, is any body temperature that is elevated above the normal temperature of 98.6 degrees fahrenheit.
activity can raise body temperature, so plenty of rest is  recommended to help body temperature return to normal soak in lukewarm water.
drink water, juice, or broth.
treating low-grade fevers may extend the length  of the illness and interfere with the body’s immune response.
oral is the next most accurate method, and is also the most widely used in children above the age of 4, and adults.
acetaminophen should not be used if the person with a fever has liver disease.
of those children, 1/3 will have another seizure with febrile episode.
rating:  0.0/10 (0 votes cast)  vn:f [1.9.13_1145] rating: 0 (from 0 votes) related content
rather, these treatments  alleviate the symptoms of the fever.
a febrile seizure occurs when a child’s temperature rises or falls quickly.
in these cases, allowing the body to combat the illness is the best option.
how to prevent a fever
acetaminophen should not be used if the person  with a fever has liver disease.
febrile seizures occur in approximately 3% of children between the ages of 18 months and 3 years.
a child under 3 months of age has a temperature of 101f or higher infant refuses to eat or drink fever in infant is accompanied by unexplained irritability, or unusual  crying during a diaper change or when moved fever in infant is accompanied by lethargy and unresponsiveness fever in a child occurs after being left in a hot car there is a history of cancer, hiv, aids, heart disease, diabetes, or other  serious illness other symptoms suggest major illness fever is sustained for more than 3 days risk factors as fevers are usually signs of an underlying medical condition, the risk  factors for a fever go hand in hand with the risk factors for the underlying  medical condition.
body temperature fluctuates throughout the day, and can elevate due to normal everyday activities, such as exercise.
aspirin should not be used  with children or adolescents, due to concerns with a serious illness called  reyes syndrome.
over-the-counter medications over-the-counter medications used to treat a fever include acetaminophen  (tylenol), ibuprofen (advil or motrin), and aspirin.
don’t put off seeking medical attention if the fever is accompanied by worrisome symptoms, if the fever is exceptionally high, or if the fever does not decrease after taking medication.
over-the-counter medications used to treat a fever include acetaminophen (tylenol), ibuprofen (advil or motrin), and aspirin.
for any  underlying illness causing the fever that cannot be treated with prescription  medications, over-the-counter medications or home remedies may be used.
f [1.9.13_1145] name (required) mail (required)
in addition to hand washing and avoiding touching the “t-zone” of your face, covering your mouth when coughing and nose when sneezing helps to prevent the transmission of infection, and thus prevents fever.
while high-grade fevers may be treated to alleviate the symptoms of the fever, low-grade fevers should not be treated with either over-the-counter medications or home remedies.
in order to prevent a fever, exposure to underlying medical conditions must  be reduced.
for any underlying illness causing the fever that cannot be treated with prescription medications, over-the-counter medications or home remedies may be used.
our body temperature is set by the hypothalamus, which is an area in the brain that acts as a thermostat for our bodies.
a thermometer is used to measure body temperature.
as fevers are usually signs of an underlying medical condition, the risk factors for a fever go hand in hand with the risk factors for the underlying medical condition.
the most effective way to reduce exposure to the underlying medical  conditions causing fever is to wash hands frequently, particularly before  eating, after using the restroom, after exposure to a crowd or someone who is  sick, and after petting animals.
adults may take 2 extra strength tablets  (totaling 1000 mg) every 4-6 hours.
while fevers are the body’s natural defense against illness, it is important to remember that sometimes our body needs a little help.
exposure to illness, family history of more serious ailments  causing fever, and a weakened immune system are all risk factors for  contracting a illness, and thus for experiencing a fever.
the treatment for fever depends greatly on the underlying medical condition causing the fever.
once a determination of the underlying medical condition has been made, other tests (such as a blood test) may be required to confirm the diagnosis.
exposure to illness, family history of more serious ailments causing fever, and a weakened immune system are all risk factors for contracting a illness, and thus for experiencing a fever.
the thermoregulatory set point is determined by balancing the heat produced by body tissues such as the liver and muscles, and the heat lost by the body.
of those children, 1/3 will have another seizure with  febrile episode.
fever causes  fluid loss and dehydration so it is important to keep sipping something in  order to keep the body hydrated.
aspirin should not be used with children or adolescents, due to concerns with a serious illness called reyes syndrome.
these seizures do not generally cause long term side effects or damage to the nervous system low fevers are generally not cause for alarm.
it is  important to note that these over-the-counter medications and home remedies do  not cure the fever or the underlying medical ailment.
a febrile seizure occurs when a  child’s temperature rises or falls quickly.
in these  cases, allowing the body to combat the illness is the best option.
axillary is the least accurate method.
various herbs, independent of the herbal tea, are  thought to be good treatments for fever.
these include basil leaf tea drank  3-4 times per day during the fever; tea with ½ teaspoon cinnamon powder,  2 cardamoms, and 2 teaspoons ginger boiled well; 2-3 teaspoons dry roasted  fenugreek seed powder boiled and strained with a drop of butter added; and 10  grams raisins and ginger boiled in 200 ml water until it is reduced to 50 ml,  with the water then strained and drank.
adults may take 2-3 200mg tablets every six hours.
rather, these treatments alleviate the symptoms of the fever.
website © 2012 natural remedies.org - please consult your doctor for medical issues, as this information is not personalized, & thus it does not constitute medical advice.
in fact, if the fever does not cause discomfort and there are no troubling symptoms accompanying a low fever, it should go untreated to allow the body’s natural defenses to combat the underlying illness.
ibuprofen is safe for children over 6  months in age, though medical advice should be sought regarding proper dosage.
while fevers are the body’s natural defense against illness, it is  important to remember that sometimes our body needs a little help.
the three most common methods are rectal; oral; tympanic (in the ear); and axillary (under the armpit).
don’t  put off seeking medical attention if the fever is accompanied by worrisome  symptoms, if the fever is exceptionally high, or if the fever does not decrease  after taking medication.
diagnosing this is a simple matter of taking one’s temperature with a thermometer.
if the underlying medical condition is a bacterial infection, prescription medications such as antibiotics will be prescribed.
irritability febrile seizures children under the age of 5 can experience fever induced seizures,  otherwise known as febrile seizures.
while high-grade fevers may be treated to alleviate the symptoms of the  fever, low-grade fevers should not be treated with either over-the-counter  medications or home remedies.
febrile seizures occur in approximately 3% of children between the ages of  18 months and 3 years.
the exact factors putting individuals at risk for developing a fever depend greatly on the cause of the underlying medical condition that causes the fever.
tepid water (85f) baths may help  bring temperature down.
the exact factors  putting individuals at risk for developing a fever depend greatly on the cause  of the underlying medical condition that causes the fever.
however, antibiotics are ineffective against viral infections.
these help to lower a high fever, but will not cure it.
however, there are times when medical attention  is necessary.
shivering raises the  body’s temperature, so will have an opposite effect on the fever.
the signs of a febrile  seizure include convulsions and a brief loss of consciousness.
however, an elevated temperature of 100.4 degrees fahrenheit or higher is considered medically significant, and is usually due to an underlying medical condition.
when the body temperature then begins to return to normal, there is often sweating as the body attempts to get rid of the excess heat.
aspirin is, however, safe for adults.
rectal method (infants)
there are various home remedies that, while they will not cure the underlying illness, will help the fever run its course, and make a person suffering from a fever feel better
the treatment for fever depends greatly on the underlying  medical condition causing the fever.
adults may take 2 extra strength tablets (totaling 1000 mg) every 4-6 hours.
if the underlying medical condition is a  bacterial infection, prescription medications such as antibiotics will be  prescribed.
children should seek medical advice.
medical attention should be sought when temperature is 104f or higher (seek immediate medical attention!
high-grade temperatures, as opposed to low-grade, may be treated to lower their severity.
a  temperature this high can lead to delirium and convulsions)
the most common cause of a fever is infections, such as the flu or a cold.
ibuprofen is safe for children over 6 months in age, though medical advice should be sought regarding proper dosage.
in addition to hand washing and avoiding touching the “t-zone”  of your face, covering your mouth when coughing and nose when sneezing helps to  prevent the transmission of infection, and thus prevents fever.
developing good hand washing  practices is imperative to prevention, and should be taught to children as soon  as possible.
the tympanic method requires a digital thermometer, and is often used in children over the age of 3.
home remedies there are various home remedies that, while they will not cure the  underlying illness, will help the fever run its course, and make a person  suffering from a fever feel better stay hydrated.
vn:f [1.9.13_1145] please wait...
if the body temperature is higher than the normal temperature of 98.6f, and cannot be explained by activity level,a fever is present.
the signs of a febrile seizure include convulsions and a brief loss of consciousness.
avoiding touching the “t-zone” of your face—eyes, nose, mouth—helps to prevent fever by reducing the spreading of viral infections.
soak for 5-10 minutes for a cooling effect.
avoiding touching the “t-zone” of your face—eyes, nose,  mouth—helps to prevent fever by reducing the spreading of viral  infections.
in fact, if the fever does  not cause discomfort and there are no troubling symptoms accompanying a low  fever, it should go untreated to allow the body’s natural defenses to  combat the underlying illness.
however, other possibilities include children under the age of 5 can experience fever induced seizures, otherwise known as febrile seizures.
7-8 tulsi leaves (basil) and 3-4  peppercorns chewed together is supposed to help a fever, as is a teaspoon of  honey with 2-3 drops of ginger juice.
in order to prevent a fever, exposure to underlying medical conditions must be reduced.
three rules to prevention cover your cough and sneeze avoid the “t-zone” treatment high-grade temperatures, as opposed to low-grade, may be treated to lower  their severity.
these seizures do not generally cause long term side effects  or damage to the nervous system when to seek medical attention low fevers are generally not cause for alarm.
treating low-grade fevers may extend the length of the illness and interfere with the body’s immune response.
various recipes of tea are available that  claim to aid in the reduction of a fever.
do not use  alcohol, and if the bath causes shivering, stop the bath.
the most effective way to reduce exposure to the underlying medical conditions causing fever is to wash hands frequently, particularly before eating, after using the restroom, after exposure to a crowd or someone who is sick, and after petting animals.
the thermoregulatory set point is increased in response to threats, such as bacterial or viral infections, resulting in a higher body temperature as the body directs blood away from the skin to decrease heat loss.
sometimes, depending on signs and symptoms accompanying the fever, a physical exam or other tests will be ran in order to determine if the cause of the fever is infection or something else.
however, there are times when medical attention is necessary.
developing good hand washing practices is imperative to prevention, and should be taught to children as soon as possible.