this condition generally  occurs in children and young adults, most often during intense exercise in cold  dry air.
gastrointestinal distress (stomach upset or pain) is the most common side effect of leukotriene antagonists.
inhaled drugs must be used regularly as prescribed and the patient  carefully trained in their use in order for them to be effective and safe.
few rigorous studies have evaluated herbal remedies for asthma.
studies indicate that exposure to second-hand smoke in the home increases the risk for asthma and asthma-related emergency room visits in children.
in general, the  more severe the childhood asthma, the greater the likelihood that it will  persist.
infections the role of early childhood respiratory and intestinal infections is very  complex.
bateman e, nelson h, bousquet j, kral k, sutton l, ortega h, yancey s. meta-analysis: effects of adding salmeterol to inhaled corticosteroids on serious asthma-related events.
unfortunately, many patients do not understand the difference between medications that provide rapid, short-term relief and those that are used for long-term symptom control.
studies suggest that many children fail to use the devices properly, although newer devices are easier to use than others.
manufacturers of herbal remedies and dietary supplements do not need fda approval to sell their products.
the risk for such injury is highest when asthma strikes  children in their first 3 - 5 years.
patients should track their medicine and  throw the device away when the last dose has been administered.
asthma guidelines the u.s. national asthma education and prevention program (naepp)  guidelines for the diagnosis and management of asthma recommend: assessment and monitoring.
typical asthma symptoms the classic symptoms of an asthma attack include: wheezing is nearly always present during an attack.
studies suggest that many children fail to use the devices properly, although  newer devices are easier to use than others.
some  patients find that they are easier to manage than mdis.
if the measurements are more  normal, the drug has most likely cleared the airways, and a diagnosis of asthma  is strongly suspected.
a nebulizer is a machine that delivers a fine spray of  medication-containing liquid.
asthma often progresses very slowly but it may sometimes develop to a fatal  or near-fatal attack within a few minutes.
such changes appear to  be two specific responses: the hyperreactive response (also called hyperresponsiveness) the inflammatory response these actions in the airway cause coughing, wheezing, and shortness of  breath (dyspnea), the classic symptoms of asthma.
about half of all cases of asthma develop before the age of 10, and about 80% of patients develop symptoms before they are 5 years old.
how treating co-existing chronic conditions (rhinitis, sinusitis,  gastroesophageal reflux, and obesity) can help improve asthma control.
parents can greatly reduce the  frequency and severity of their children’s asthma attacks by  understanding the difference between coping with asthma attacks and controlling  the disease over time.
some children outgrow their asthma by adulthood.
lemanske rf jr, mauger dt, sorkness ca, jackson dj, boehmer sj, martinez fd, et al.
always refer to the written action plan from your doctors and nurses.
both groups of minority children are more likely to have fatal asthma than caucasian children.
hyperreactive response
(the inflammation itself must still be treated,  however, because it usually causes relapse.)
treatment general approach for treating and managing asthma while medications play an essential role in the management of asthma,  appropriate management of asthma involves much more: identifying and avoiding allergens and other asthma triggers following appropriate drug treatments home monitoring performed by either patient or family good communication between the doctor and patient needed psychosocial support treatment of asthma in all environments (school, work, exercise) the severity of asthma is classified into four groups:
often, having the home evaluated for triggers can be very helpful.
more likely, these viruses do not directly cause asthma, but worsen asthma in  children who already have it.
the flesh around the ribs of the chest appears to be sucked in.
exercise can help control weight, which can help with asthma symptoms.
patients report benefits from many stress reduction and physical techniques, such as acupuncture, hypnosis, breathing relaxation techniques, the alexander technique, massage therapy, and meditation.
the condition can be very serious in children, particularly those younger  than age 5, because their airways are very narrow.
children with obvious symptoms of reflux (heartburn) or children who have difficulty managing asthma may consider the following lifestyle changes: alternative therapies are widely used by children, adolescents, and adults with asthma.
weight loss in anyone who is obese and has asthma or shortness of breath helps reduce airway obstruction and improve lung function.
the plan should contain a list of medications the child takes (including which ones need to be taken during school hours), identified asthma triggers, and emergency contact numbers.
patients with aspirin-induced asthma (aia) should avoid aspirin and other nsaids, including ibuprofen (advil) and naproxen (aleve).
devices used for administering inhaled drugs most asthma drugs are inhaled using various forms of inhalers or  nebulizers.
these are the signs of well-controlled asthma: a stepwise approach is recommended for treating asthma.
rsv is the major viral cause of infant pneumonia.
in choosing therapy, doctors must also consider the risk an individual  patient has for more severe exacerbations.
the child can tell if this working because the hands will move  slightly apart.
coffman jm, cabana md, yelin eh.
covar ra, strunk r, zeiger rs, wilson la, liu ah, weiss s, et al.
anaphylaxis may occur up to 24 hours after the dose is given.
neither vacuuming nor the use of anti-mite carpet shampoo, however, is effective in removing mites in house dust.
about 70 - 85% of children with asthma also  have allergies.
close follow-up is recommended avoidance or management of environmental triggers is always important.
it may still be used in some circumstances, such as for treating nocturnal asthma.
salmeterol-fluticasone (advair) and  formoterol-budesonide (symbicort) are examples of combination products.
cockroach dust is a major trigger and may reduce lung  function even in people without a history of asthma.
if measurement results fail to show airway obstruction, but asthma is  still suspected, the doctor may perform achallenge test.
the standard device for administering any asthma medication is the metered-dose inhaler (mdi).
leukotriene antagonists include zafirlukast (accolate) and montelukast (singulair).
when the child breathes out, the "balloon" will be made flat.
however, many  children outgrow attacks of intermittent wheezing.
making lifestyle changes to reduce allergy attacks and other triggers is extremely important.
(the spacer is a tube that is attached to the inhaler.
probiotics are beneficial microbes that some believe may help protect against allergies and asthma.
it should be considered only for children over 12 years who have moderate-to-severe persistent asthma related to allergies and for adults who have severe asthma and allergies.
the cough may be worse at night.
asthma affects about 7 million american children ages of 5 - 14.
people with asthma who  already have pets and are not allergic to them probably have a low risk for  developing such allergies later on.
some studies suggest that children who have allergies are also  at greater risk for developing asthma as adults.
in addition, mdis can continue to deliver propellant even after the drug has been used up.
advair is approved for children ages 4 years and older, and symbicort is approved for children ages 12 years and older.
doctors may always adjust these recommendations  based on a specific patient.
this  extends even to the fetus of pregnant women who smoke.
the child is then told to pretend the stomach is a balloon.
viral respiratory infections certainly worsen existing asthma, but the  most common ones are unlikely to cause childhood asthma.
cold fluids, like cold air, should be  avoided.
the test involves placing a small amount of the suspected allergy-causing substance (allergen) on the skin (usually the forearm, upper arm, or the back), then scratching or pricking the skin so that the allergen is introduced under the skin surface.
2009 aug;124(2):729-42.
in about 5% of cases, aspirin is responsible  for a syndrome that involves multiple attacks of asthma, sinusitis, and nasal  congestion.
asthma is the most common chronic childhood illness.
children older than 6 months should receive an influenza vaccination every year.
patients with aspirin-induced asthma (aia) should avoid aspirin and other  nsaids, including ibuprofen (advil) and naproxen (aleve).
peak expiratory flow rate (pefr), commonly called the peak flow rate, the  maximum flow rate that can be generated during a forced exhalation.
intense activities lasting less than 2 minutes, such as sprinting or competitive swimming, may cause fewer problems than longer-lasting exercises.
however, it is unclear whether the protection will last into later  childhood.
long-acting beta2 agonists and leukotriene antagonists are additional therapies  that may be used in addition to inhaled corticosteroids.
depending on the results, the doctor will take the following steps: the patient may receive skin or blood allergy tests, particularly if a specific allergen is suspected and available for testing.
important irritants include: the role of early childhood respiratory and intestinal infections is very complex.
viral respiratory infections certainly worsen existing asthma, but the most common ones are unlikely to cause childhood asthma.
young people who enjoy running should probably choose an indoor track to avoid pollutants.
significant behavioral or psychosocial problems underestimating the severity of an acute attack poses the greatest threat african-american children have more than six times the death rate of  caucasians in the age groups of 4 years and younger and 15 - 24 years.
inhaled corticosteroids and growth in children is a common concern.
however, only a minority of  children with allergies have asthma.
research indicates that children who have viral-induced wheezing during  infancy may be at increased risk for later development of asthma.
relaxation and stress-reduction techniques.
patients can develop anaphylaxis after any dose of omalizumab, even if they had no reaction to a first dose.
doctors should give patients a written asthma  action plan, which includes information on daily treatment and ways to  recognize worsening asthma.
about 1 in 1,000 patients who take omalizumab develop anaphylaxis (a life-threatening allergic reaction)
six specific components of severity are used to classify patients.
they relieve the symptoms of acute attacks, but they do not control the underlying inflammation.
people with asthma should try to minimize their risk for respiratory tract infections.
[for  more information, seein-depth report #85: heartburn and  gastroesophageal reflux disease.] aspirin-induced asthma.
children are advised to rinse their mouths out right after using these inhalers and to brush twice a day with a fluoride toothpaste.
side effects of all beta2-agonists may include: loss of effectiveness and overdose.
overdose can be serious and in rare cases even life threatening.
(the inflammation itself must still be treated, however, because it usually causes relapse.)
the more allergies a child has, the more severe the asthma.
pollen, from plants.
aspirin-induced asthma (aia) is a  condition in which asthma gets worse after taking aspirin or other nonsteroidal  anti-inflammatory drugs (nsaids).
there is a strong association between obesity and asthma.
hints for reducing exercise-induced asthma (eia).
studies suggest that most respiratory infections are not important causes of asthma in children, except in certain cases.
important components of a home program include: managing asthma exacerbations.
american lung association asthma clinical research centers, peters sp, anthonisen n, castro m, holbrook jt, irvin cg, et al.
nocturnal asthma asthma occurs primarily at night (nocturnal asthma) in as many as 75% of  patients with asthma.
nighttime  attacks may indicate poor asthma control.
breathing exercises may help improve patients’ quality of life even if they do not have a major impact on medication reduction.
if children must use an albuterol nebulizer, parents should be sure that it does not contain the preservative benzalkonium, which actually narrows the airways.
treatment of allergies and sinusitis can help control asthma.
it is important to control household allergens and pollutants in the home.
with this test, several suspected allergens can be tested  at the same time, and results are usually available within about 20 minutes.
house dust is a reservoir for pollen and dust mites.
the end of an attack is often marked by a cough that produces thick, stringy mucus.
just like a drug, herbs and supplements can affect the body's chemistry, and therefore have the potential to produce side effects that may be harmful.
shortness of breath is a major  source of distress in patients with asthma.
in people with allergies, the immune system overreacts to exposure to  allergens.
[for more information, seein-depth report #53: weight control and diet.].
such changes appear to be two specific responses: these actions in the airway cause coughing, wheezing, and shortness of breath (dyspnea), the classic symptoms of asthma.
common respiratory infection viruses that cause colds (such as the rhinovirus) may be associated with the development of asthma in some people.
step-up therapy for children with uncontrolled asthma receiving inhaled corticosteroids.
symptoms are generally most intense about 10 minutes after exercising,  then gradually resolve.
inflammatory response the hyperreactive stage is followed by the inflammatory response,  which generally contributes to asthma in the following way: the immune system responds to allergens or other environmental triggers by  delivering white blood cells and other immune factors to the airways.
patients should track their medicine and throw the device away when the last dose has been administered.
infants of low birth weight are at higher risk  for lung problems and asthma.
the exact cause of asthma is unknown.
they are most commonly prescribed for asthma flareups that do not respond to inhaler medications.
the fda is reviewing whether omalizumab (xolair) may be associated with  increased risk for heart and vascular problems (ischemic heart disease,  arrhythmias, cardiomyopathy, heart failure, pulmonary hypertension, and blood  clots).
in general, the more severe the childhood asthma, the greater the likelihood that it will persist.
immunotherapy poses some risk for severe allergic reactions, especially for children with poorly controlled asthma, so it is important that the doctor carefully evaluates the child’s asthma condition.
efficacy of inhaled corticosteroids in infants and preschoolers with recurrent wheezing and asthma: a systematic review with meta-analysis.
long-term outlook asthma generally improves as children get older, although most school-age  children with persistent asthma will still experience symptoms through  adolescence.
chest tightness or pain.
since the introduction of inhaled corticosteroids and long-acting beta2-agonists, theophylline is not used as often for asthma treatment.
after an initial acute attack, inflammation persists for days to weeks, often without symptoms.
the drugs are also sometimes used in the emergency room to treat children with severe asthma to enhance the effects of intravenous beta2-agonists.
once patients are placed into a certain severity grouping, there is a  recommended treatment approach, which also takes into consideration three age  groupings: 4 years old or younger 5 - 11 years old treating symptoms versus controlling the disease medications for asthma fall into two categories: rescue (quick-relief) medications.
other recommendations include: a child may find relief by lying stomach-down on several pillows so that  the head is slightly lower than the chest while the caregiver gently pats the  back between the shoulder blades.
fossil fuels and chemicals that contribute to air pollution  may worsen asthma symptoms.
results from studies include: there is a strong association between obesity and asthma.
treating gerd does not appear to improve asthma control.
2010 mar 18;362(11):1042-3.
overhydration (too much liquid) can be harmful, however, so these drinks  should not be forced on the child.
studies also indicate  that infants who have reduced lung function within a few days after birth are  at increased risk of developing asthma by the time they are 10 years old.
allergic asthma is triggered by inhaling certain substances  (allergens) such as: dust mites, specifically mite feces, which are coated with enzymes that  contain a powerful allergen.
when any people inhale, the air travels through the following structures: air passes into the lungs and flows through progressively smaller airways  calledbronchi and then bronchioles.
other risk factors gerd.
diagnosis pulmonary function tests if symptoms and a patient's history strongly suggest asthma, the doctor  will usually perform tests known aspulmonary function tests to confirm  the diagnosis and determine the severity of the disease.
allergy skin tests  help diagnose for allergic asthma, although they are not recommended for people  with year-round asthma.
these are the signs of well-controlled asthma: asthma symptoms occur twice a week or less rescue bronchodilator medication is used twice a week or less symptoms do not cause nighttime or early morning awakening symptoms do not limit work, school, or exercise activities peak flow meter readings are normal or the patient’s personal best both the doctor and the patient consider the asthma to be well controlled steps for treating asthma a stepwise approach is recommended for treating asthma.
schools, child care, and camps should all have a copy of the asthma action  plan.
advances in pediatric asthma in 2009: gaining control of childhood asthma.
these components are: once patients are placed into a certain severity grouping, there is a recommended treatment approach, which also takes into consideration three age groupings: medications for asthma fall into two categories: the goal of asthma therapy is to maximize long-term control of the illness with medications and other treatment approaches, thereby minimizing the frequency of asthma symptoms and asthma attacks.
theophylline is available in tablet, liquid, and injectable forms.
other similar beta2-agonists  are isoproterenol (isuprel, norisodrine, and medihaler-iso), metaproterenol  (alupent, metaprel), pirbuterol (maxair), terbutaline (brethine, brethaire, and  bricanyl), levalbuterol (xopenex), and bitolterol (tornalate).
attacks often occur between 2 and 4 a.m.
one method for this is as follows: this exercise both relaxes the child and discourages shallow, oxygen-poor breathing.
the following are some suggestions for reducing its impact: medications.
in the hyperreactive response, smooth muscles in the airways constrict and narrow excessively in response to inhaled allergens or other irritants.
asthma occurs primarily at night (nocturnal asthma) in as many as 75% of patients with asthma.
controlling for dust.
asthma has  dramatically increased worldwide over the last few decades, in both developed  and developing countries.
massaging the child in gentle circles on the chest is relaxing and may also loosen mucus.
severe asthma can cause long-lasting damage and possibly permanent scarring in some patients.
key points regarding recommendations for children 4 years old and younger  include: long-term control therapy is recommended for children who have had four or  more episodes lasting longer than 1 day over the previous year and who have  some of the risk factors described earlier in this section.
it is used only to treat patients whose symptoms are not controlled by inhaled corticosteroids.
ann allergy asthma immunol.
a variety of pregnancy and perinatal factors have been associated with risk for asthma, although none are very well studied or proven.
because the spray is less targeted than with the inhaler, it must deliver large amounts of the drug.
asthma is most likely caused by a  combination of genetic (inherited) factors and environmental triggers (such as  allergens and infections).
the end of an attack is often marked by a cough that produces thick,  stringy mucus.
at least half of patients with asthma also have  gastroesophageal reflux disease (gerd), the cause of heartburn.
albuterol (proventil, ventolin), called salbutamol outside the u.s., is the  standard short-acting beta2-agonist in america.
their use has  been associated with a higher rate of hospitalizations and longer duration of  symptoms than inhalers.
children adapt well to  living with asthma, and even with severe asthma they can function as well as  healthy children in virtually all areas of life.
cats harbor significant allergens, which can even be  carried on clothing; dogs usually cause fewer problems.
salmeterol-fluticasone (advair) and formoterol-budesonide (symbicort) are long-acting beta2 agonists products combined with a steroid in a single inhaler that are used for treatment of moderate-to-severe asthma.
nih publications 08-4051.
if a child is taking theophylline on an ongoing basis, the doctor should monitor the drug level at the start of therapy and at regular intervals thereafter.
it takes 5 - 10 minutes to administer medication using a nebulizer.
factors associated with an increased risk of death from asthma in children include: african-american children have more than six times the death rate of caucasians in the age groups of 4 years and younger and 15 - 24 years.
the lungs contain millions  of these airways.
more likely, these viruses do not directly cause asthma, but worsen asthma in children who already have it.
unfortunately, many patients do not understand the difference between  medications that provide rapid, short-term relief and those that are used for  long-term symptom control.
inhaled corticosteroids are recommended as the primary therapy for any patient needing long-term control medications for persistent asthma.
it is a particularly severe asthmatic condition, associated with many asthma-related hospitalizations.
this anxiety produces further constriction on the muscles surrounding the  airways, which makes breathing even more difficult.
fda advisories asthma guidelines the u.s. national asthma education and prevention program (naepp) guidelines for the diagnosis and management of asthma recommend: the word asthma originates from an ancient greek word meaning panting.
patients with severe seasonal allergies may need to start taking medications a few weeks before the pollen season, and to continue them until the season is over.
massaging the child in gentle circles on the chest is relaxing and  may also loosen mucus.
because the spray is less targeted than with the inhaler, it must deliver large  amounts of the drug.
weight loss in anyone who is obese and has asthma  or shortness of breath helps reduce airway obstruction and improve lung  function.
shortness of breath (dyspnea).
in people with allergies, the immune system overreacts to exposure to allergens.
chemicals used in household cleaning products and  furniture materials can be asthma triggers.
caregivers must first focus on reducing their own anxiety, which can  heighten a child's own fears.
other recommendations include: visits by home health care nurses or social workers may help if the family is having trouble managing the asthma and following prescribed treatments.
if symptoms and a patient's history strongly suggest asthma, the doctor will usually perform tests known aspulmonary function tests to confirm the diagnosis and determine the severity of the disease.
even patients who show few daily effects of asthma may be in  danger of sudden worsening of symptoms.
immunotherapy ("allergy shots") may help reduce asthma symptoms, and the use of asthma medications, in patients with known allergies.
caucasian children who live in cities also face a high risk for asthma.
if the airways are obstructed, these measurements will fall.
stern da, morgan wj, halonen m, wright al, martinez fd.
frequent need for these medications  indicates that the asthma is not well-controlled overall.
swimming is excellent for people with asthma.
key points regarding recommendations for children 4 years old and younger include: key points regarding recommendations for children 5 years and older include: the variation between age groups consists mostly of which medications are recommended and how soon to start various medications and treatments.
inflammation appears to be present in the lungs of all patients with  asthma, even those with mild cases, and plays a key role in all forms of the  disease.
allergy tests the patient may receive skin or blood allergy tests, particularly if a  specific allergen is suspected and available for testing.
asthma generally improves as children get older, although most school-age children with persistent asthma will still experience symptoms through adolescence.
non-medical treatment strategies asthma can trigger a difficult emotional-physical cycle: breathlessness and wheezing incite a fear of suffocation and death, even  in very small children.
for children who have an existing allergy to pets: bedding, curtains, and bedroom environment.
2008 dec;101(6):570-9.
eia is triggered only by exercise and is distinct from ordinary  allergic asthma in that it does not produce a long duration of airway activity,  as allergic asthma does.
there does not appear to be any  significant risk for long-term lung damage for children who develop  mild-to-moderate persistent asthma between ages 5 - 12.
studies suggest that most respiratory infections are not important causes  of asthma in children, except in certain cases.
they relieve the symptoms of acute attacks,  but they do not control the underlying inflammation.
mdi-delivered drugs must be used regularly as prescribed and the patient carefully trained in their use in order for them to be effective and safe.
these medications are taken on a regular basis to prevent asthma attacks and control chronic symptoms.
dry-powder may cause tooth erosion.
the  guidelines outline new approaches for reducing exposure to allergens.
in the hyperreactive response, smooth muscles in the airways constrict and  narrow excessively in response to inhaled allergens or other irritants.
some research suggests that peanut and milk allergies may increase  asthma severity.
exclusively breastfeeding for a baby’s first 3  months of life may help reduce the risk for wheezing and asthma during their  early.
asthma has dramatically increased worldwide over the last few decades, in both developed and developing countries.
eia is triggered only by exercise and is distinct from ordinary allergic asthma in that it does not produce a long duration of airway activity, as allergic asthma does.
leukotriene antagonists (also called anti-leukotrienes or leukotriene modifiers) are oral medications used for prevention, not for treating acute asthma attacks.
intermittent, mild persistent, moderate persistent, and severe persistent.
the condition can be very serious in children, particularly those younger than age 5, because their airways are very narrow.
nighttime attacks may indicate poor asthma control.
mar 5;360(10):1002-14.
the alveoli are the microscopic sacs lined by tiny blood vessels that take in  oxygen and give up carbon dioxide.
a cromolyn nasal spray called nasalcrom has been approved for over-the-counter purchase, but only to relieve nasal congestion caused by allergies.
however, a number of studies report only a slight effect (about half an inch) on children's growth, which may be only temporary.
short-acting beta2-agonists become less effective when taken regularly over time, which increases the risk for overuse.
both groups of  minority children are more likely to have fatal asthma than caucasian children.
it  involves administering a specific drug (histamine or methacholine) that usually  increases airway resistance only when asthma is present.
other similar beta2-agonists are isoproterenol (isuprel, norisodrine, and medihaler-iso), metaproterenol (alupent, metaprel), pirbuterol (maxair), terbutaline (brethine, brethaire, and bricanyl), levalbuterol (xopenex), and bitolterol (tornalate).
this increases the risk for toxicity and severe side  effects.
airways in everyone's lungs respond by constricting when exposed to allergens or irritants but there are major differences in the hyperreactive response that occurs in people with asthma: the hyperreactive stage is followed by the inflammatory response, which generally contributes to asthma in the following way: inflammation appears to be present in the lungs of all patients with asthma, even those with mild cases, and plays a key role in all forms of the disease.
exterminating pests (cockroaches and mice).
a stepwise approach is recommended where medication types and doses are  increased or decreased based on the level of asthma control.
children who can manage an inhaler should not use nebulizers.
omalizumab is given by injection every 2 - 4 weeks.
doctors may provide a written prescription for patients to keep on hand, with specific instructions about when to fill it.
nebulizers are often used for children younger  than 3 years and sometimes for older children who have difficulty using the  mdi.
however, many children outgrow attacks of intermittent wheezing.
this combination results in wheezing, breathlessness, an inability to  exhale properly, and a phlegm-producing cough.
people who are overweight (body mass index greater than 25) also have more difficulty getting their asthma under control.
breathing exercises.
many patients with moderate or severe asthma overuse  their short-term medications and underuse their corticosteroid medications.
side effects and complications.
essentially, asthma is an inflammatory lung condition that makes it  difficult to breathe properly.
such patients also often have polyps (small benign growths) in the nasal passages.
[for more information, seein-depth report #85: heartburn and gastroesophageal reflux disease.] aspirin-induced asthma.
there have been a number of reported cases of serious and even lethal side effects from herbal products.
it is not entirely clear which condition causes the other or whether they are both due to common factors.
two inhaled drugs, ipratropium bromide (atrovent) and tiotropium (spiriva), act as bronchodilators over time.
rapid heart rate sweating any of these symptoms may worsen with exercise, viral infections, exposure  to irritants, stress, or changes in weather.
among younger children, asthma develops twice as frequently in boys as in  girls, but after puberty it is more common in girls.
click the icon to see an illustrated series detailing  the use of a nebulizer.
historically, about 10% of olympic athletes have asthma.
always check with your doctor before using any herbal remedies or dietary supplements.
with an epi-pen, or similar auto-injector device, patients can quickly give themselves a life-saving dose of epinephrine.
people who have only eia do not need long-term maintenance therapy.
the spacer helps improve medication delivery by allowing the patient additional time to inhale.
in one study, nearly half of asthma or allergy sufferers resorted to alternative treatments.
in fact, early  respiratory and intestinal infections may offer some protection against asthma.
side effects of inhaled steroids may include: long-acting beta2-agonists (labas) are used for preventing an asthma attack (not for treating attack symptoms).
in fact, vacuuming stirs up both mites and cat allergens.
many patients with moderate or severe asthma overuse their short-term medications and underuse their corticosteroid medications.
hispanic  children also have a higher risk.
poorly controlled asthma can also affect growth.
patients should also carry emergency self-treatment for anaphylaxis (such as an epi-pen) and know how to use it.
there have been very few well-conducted studies supporting their use, however.
factors associated with an increased risk of death from asthma in children  include: previous life-threatening episodes of asthma two or more hospitalizations or more than three emergency visits in the  past year using two or more short-acting beta2-agonist inhalers per month lack of adequate and ongoing health care.
but there are major differences in the hyperreactive response that  occurs in people with asthma: when people without asthma breathe in and out deeply, the airways  relax and open in order to rid the lungs of the irritant.
randomized comparison of strategies for reducing treatment in mild persistent asthma.
preventing exposure to cigarette and cooking smoke.
asthma is no reason to avoid exercise.
asthma tends to run in families, so children whose  parents have asthma are more likely to develop it themselves.
based on a  patient’s age and asthma severity, there are specific recommendations  regarding whether to use long-term control medications and which ones to use.
this device, particularly when used with a spacer, allows precise doses to be delivered directly to the lungs.
greer fr, sicherer sh, burks aw; american academy of pediatrics committee on nutrition; american academy of pediatrics section on allergy and immunology.
in fact, early respiratory and intestinal infections may offer some protection against asthma.
using a spirometer, an instrument that measures the air taken into and  exhaled from the lungs, the doctor will determine several values: vital capacity (vc), the maximum volume of air that can be inhaled or  exhaled.
humidity or extreme temperatures can affect dpis' performance, so they should not be stored in humid places (bathroom cabinets) or locations subject to high temperatures (glove compartments during summer months).
common respiratory infection viruses that cause colds (such as the  rhinovirus) may be associated with the development of asthma in some people.
if possible, avoid carpets and rugs.
theophylline relaxes the muscles around the bronchioles and also stimulates breathing.
initial chest tightness without any other  symptoms may be an early indicator of a serious attack.
long-term control  medications are essential to minimize long-term damage of the inflammatory  response, to reduce the risk of serious exacerbations, and to enhance the  overall function and well-being of patients with asthma.
severe asthma can cause long-lasting damage and possibly permanent scarring  in some patients.
[for more information, see in-depth report #4: asthma in adults.]
it may also be  considered for other children who are experiencing impairment from their asthma.
exercise-induced asthma (eia) is a limited form of asthma in which exercise triggers coughing, wheezing, or shortness of breath.
however, only a minority of children with allergies have asthma.
medications and dosages are increased when needed, and decreased when possible.
people who are  overweight (body mass index greater than 25) also have more difficulty getting  their asthma under control.
click the  icon to see an image of a normal versus asthmatic bronchiole.
yoga, which uses stretching, breathing, and meditation techniques, may have particular benefits.
other drugs used in special cases include  corticosteroids taken by mouth and anticholinergic drugs.
side effects of cromolyn include nasal congestion, coughing, sneezing, wheezing, nausea, nosebleeds, and dry throat.
others  may exhale too forcefully before inhalation.
it serves as a  holding chamber for the medication that is sprayed by the inhaler.)
using a spirometer, an instrument that measures the air taken into and exhaled from the lungs, the doctor will determine several values: if the airways are obstructed, these measurements will fall.
others may exhale too forcefully before inhalation.
patients should be taught skills to  self-monitor and manage asthma.
long-term control (maintenance) medications.
the variation between age groups consists mostly of which medications are  recommended and how soon to start various medications and treatments.
key points regarding recommendations for children 5 years and older include: participation in physical activities and sports should be encouraged.
if asthma continues to  worsen with the use of these drugs, a doctor may prescribe corticosteroids or  other drugs to treat underlying inflammation.
probiotics for the treatment of allergic rhinitis and asthma: systematic review of randomized controlled trials.
it is very difficult to predict when  an attack will become very serious.
the fda is currently reviewing whether omalizumab may be associated with increased risk for heart and vascular problems (ischemic heart disease, arrhythmias, cardiomyopathy, heart failure, pulmonary hypertension, and blood clots).
some patients hold the mdi too close to their mouths, or even inside them.
indoor allergens in school and day care environments.
humidity or extreme  temperatures can affect dpis' performance, so they should not be stored in  humid places (bathroom cabinets) or locations subject to high temperatures  (glove compartments during summer months).
2007 may 17;356(20):2027-39.
results from studies  include: low birth weight.
after an initial acute attack, inflammation persists for days to  weeks, often without symptoms.
such patients also often have polyps (small benign growths) in the  nasal passages.
doctors should consider discontinuing the drug if patients exhibit any of these symptoms.
these drugs should never be used alone in the treatment of asthma in adults or children.
predictors of remitting, periodic, and persistent childhood asthma.
asthma can trigger a difficult emotional-physical cycle: caregivers must first focus on reducing their own anxiety, which can heighten a child's own fears.
all bronchioles lead to alveoli, which are microscopic sacs where  oxygen is taken in and carbon dioxide is expelled.
when any people inhale, the air travels through the following structures: asthma is a chronic condition in which these airways undergo changes when stimulated by allergens or other environmental triggers.
do school-based asthma education programs improve self-management and health outcomes?pediatrics.
the skin is observed closely for signs of a reaction, which usually includes swelling and redness of the site.
intermittent, mild  persistent, moderate persistent, and severe persistent.
asthma is a chronic condition in which these airways undergo changes when  stimulated by allergens or other environmental triggers.
the measurements are taken again.
dry powder inhalers (dpis) deliver a powdered form of beta2-agonists or corticosteroids directly into the lungs.
however, evidence to date does not support efficacy in preventing or treating asthma.
in some people, the first (or only) symptom of asthma is a dry  cough.
vliagoftis h, kouranos vd, betsi gi, falagas me.
click the icon to see an image of exercise-induced asthma.
only certain inhaled corticosteroids and long-acting beta2-agonists are  recommended for these children.
for children over age  5 with moderate-to-severe persistent asthma, doctors recommend inhaled  corticosteroids, with the addition of long-acting beta2-agonists if necessary.
warm, moist air from vaporizers can greatly ease and moderate asthma  attacks.
risk factors for life-threatening asthma asthma death rates have steadily declined and asthma is now only rarely  fatal in children even low mortality numbers are unacceptable, however, since  asthma deaths are largely preventable.
this increases the risk for toxicity and severe side effects.
quick-relief medications these medications quickly control acute asthma attacks.
smooth muscles in the airways of people with asthma may have a defect,  perhaps a deficiency in a critical chemical that prevents the muscles from  relaxing.
asthma is the third major cause of hospitalization in children under age 15.
prognosis asthma is the third major cause of hospitalization in children under age  15.
nebulizers and certain other devices are available to help administer  medications to children this age.
visits by home health care nurses or social workers may help if the family  is having trouble managing the asthma and following prescribed treatments.
rhinovirus is the most common infection associated with asthma attacks.
common oral corticosteroids include prednisone/prednisolone, dexamethasone, methylprednisolone, and hydrocortisone.
there does not appear to be any significant risk for long-term lung damage for children who develop mild-to-moderate persistent asthma between ages 5 - 12.
this drug is used in asthma to open the air  passages.
symptoms are generally most intense about 10 minutes after exercising, then gradually resolve.
the overuse of bronchodilators can have serious consequences; not using steroids can lead to permanent lung damage.
the word asthma originates from an ancient greek word meaning  panting.
parents who smoke are strongly urged to quit.
the goal of asthma therapy is to maximize long-term control of the illness  with medications and other treatment approaches, thereby minimizing the  frequency of asthma symptoms and asthma attacks.
with this test, several suspected allergens can be tested at the same time, and results are usually available within about 20 minutes.
reducing humidity in the house.
one of the most common methods of allergy testing is the scratch test or skin prick test.
asthma tends to run in families, so children whose parents have asthma are more likely to develop it themselves.
aspirin-induced asthma (aia) is a condition in which asthma gets worse after taking aspirin or other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (nsaids).
a nebulizer is a machine that delivers a fine spray of medication-containing liquid.
doctors should use multiple measures  to determine a patient’s current condition and future risk for worsening  of condition.
a short-acting inhaled beta2-agonist,  taken as needed, is often the only medication used by children with chronic  mild asthma.
breastfeeding has many other benefits for the child.
even smoky cooking can worsen asthma.
national heart, lung, and blood institute, us dept of health and human services; 2007.
in choosing therapy, doctors must also consider the risk an individual patient has for more severe exacerbations.
steroids are not bronchodilators (they do not relax the airways) and have little immediate effect on symptoms.
2010 jan;125(1):69-78.
they are  useful only for treating symptoms.
about half of all cases of asthma develop before the age of 10, and about 80%  of patients develop symptoms before they are 5 years old.
warm liquids, such as soup or hot cider, are effective in loosening mucus  and may also relax bronchial muscles.
important irritants include: smoking: parental smoking has been shown to increase the airway  responsiveness of infants as early as the first 2 - 10 weeks of life.
sep 20;372(9643):1058-64.
short-acting beta2-agonists beta2-agonists serve as bronchodilators, relaxing and opening constricted  airways during an acute asthma attack.
studies also indicate that with the use of a face mask and a spacer, the mdi works well even for infants in the emergency room and may prove to be useable at home.
parents should also make sure that the school staff is trained in the steps to take in case of an asthma attack.
airways  in everyone's lungs respond by constricting when exposed to allergens or  irritants
other potential uses include preventing exercise-induced asthma.
salo pm, sever ml, zeldin dc.
doctors may always adjust these recommendations based on a specific patient.
among younger children, asthma develops twice as frequently in boys as in girls, but after puberty it is more common in girls.
[for more information, seein-depth reports #77: allergic rhinitis and #62: sinusitis.] patients with asthma and chronic allergic rhinitis may need daily medications.
asthma is most likely caused by a combination of genetic (inherited) factors and environmental triggers (such as allergens and infections).
probiotics can be obtained in active yogurt cultures and in supplements, which are being studied for protection.
acupuncture, hypnosis, and biofeedback are alternative ways to control pain.
parents can greatly reduce the frequency and severity of their children’s asthma attacks by understanding the difference between coping with asthma attacks and controlling the disease over time.
asthma in children and adolescents highlights fda advisories leukotriene antagonist drugs, which include montelukast (singulair),  zafirlukast (accolate) and zileuton (zyflo), may be associated with mood and  psychiatric side effects including agitation, aggression, insomnia, and  suicidal behavior.
side effects of all beta2-agonists  may include: anxiety
inhaled corticosteroids are the preferred long-term control therapy.
depending on  the results, the doctor will take the following steps: if measurements fall, the doctor typically asks the patient to inhale a  bronchodilator medication.
research indicates that children who have viral-induced wheezing during infancy may be at increased risk for later development of asthma.
neither is highly beneficial for acute asthma attacks.
living in a damp environment is counterproductive.
treatment approaches generally include: follow-up generally depends on the severity of asthma, how recently asthma was diagnosed, patient compliance, and whether recent changes in treatment were made.
asthma death rates have steadily declined and asthma is now only rarely fatal in children even low mortality numbers are unacceptable, however, since asthma deaths are largely preventable.
studies indicate that the more indoor allergens a child is allergic to, the higher the risk for severe asthma.
the following signs and symptoms may indicate a life-threatening situation: asthma often progresses very slowly but it may sometimes develop to a fatal or near-fatal attack within a few minutes.
spray furniture polish is very effective for reducing both dust and allergens.
this condition generally occurs in children and young adults, most often during intense exercise in cold dry air.
children between 2 months and 2 years of age should receive a series of pneumococcal conjugate vaccines, but children older than 2 years should receive one dose of the pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine.
an important exception is the respiratory syncytial virus (rsv), which is associated with the development of asthma.
the basic devices are the  metered-dose inhaler (mdi), dry powder inhalers, and nebulizers.
bruzzese jm, evans d, kattan m. school-based asthma programs.
these so-called inflammatory factors cause the airways to swell, fill with  fluid, and produce a thick sticky mucus.
(by contrast, oral steroids have considerable side effects throughout the body.)
national asthma education and prevention program expert panel report 3: guidelines for the diagnosis and management of asthma.
the  overuse of bronchodilators can have serious consequences; not using steroids  can lead to permanent lung damage.
risk factors asthma affects about 7 million american children ages of 5 - 14.
these drugs are usually short-acting beta-adrenergic  agonists (beta2-agonists).
rhinovirus is the most common infection  associated with asthma attacks.
acupuncture involves the insertion of tiny sterile needles, slightly thicker than a human hair, at specific points on the body.
recent studies suggest spacers may be better than  nebulizers for children, and they shorten the time spent in emergency rooms.
epub 2010 mar 2.review date: 5/6/2010 change the current font size: larger | default | smaller current color mode is black on white, other available modes: yellow on black |black on cream current color mode is yellow on black, other available modes: black on white |black on cream current color mode is black on cream, other available modes: black on white |yellow on black open the original version of this page.
castro-rodriguez ja, rodrigo gj.
children born in the winter may have a greater risk  for asthmatic allergies to cockroaches than children born at other times of the  year.
corticosteroids, also called glucocorticoids or steroids, are powerful anti-inflammatory drugs.
essentially, asthma is an inflammatory lung condition that makes it difficult to breathe properly.
nebulizers are often used for children younger than 3 years and sometimes for older children who have difficulty using the mdi.
2010 feb;125(2):359-366.e3.
beta2-agonists serve as bronchodilators, relaxing and opening constricted airways during an acute asthma attack.
environmental factors (irritants) an asthma attack can be induced or aggravated by direct irritants to the  lungs.
medications and  dosages are increased when needed, and decreased when possible.
and, during an asthma attack the airways narrow, making breathing  difficult.
african-american children have significantly higher rates of asthma than caucasian children.
most asthma drugs are inhaled using various forms of inhalers or nebulizers.
(however, some people have both forms of asthma.)
patients should not use it for self-medication without the advice of a doctor.
ethnicity and genetics, however, are less likely to play a role in these differences than socioeconomic differences, such as having less access to optimal health care, and greater likelihood of living in an urban area.
children are advised to rinse their  mouths out right after using these inhalers and to brush twice a day with a  fluoride toothpaste.
labas should be used for the shortest time possible, and should only be used by patients whose asthma is not adequately controlled by asthma controller medications.
in children with asthmatic symptoms, it is important to first consider as a possible cause inhaled foreign objects such as peanuts; viral infections such as croup; and bacterial infections, which may be accompanied by high fever and progress rapidly.
while medications play an essential role in the management of asthma, appropriate management of asthma involves much more: the severity of asthma is classified into four groups:
it is very difficult to predict when an attack will become very serious.
long-acting beta2-agonists (labas) are medications used for preventing an  asthma attack (not for treating symptoms).
anaphylaxis symptoms include: [for more information, see in-depth report #4: asthma in adults.]
these components are: symptom frequency, ranging from fewer than 2 days per week to throughout  the day nighttime awakenings, ranging from none to nightly short-acting beta2-agonist use for symptom control, ranging from 2 or  fewer days per week to several times per day interference with normal activity, ranging from none to extremely limited lung function as measured by fev1 and fev1/fvc, measured with pulmonary  function testing at the doctor's office number of exacerbations (sudden worsening) requiring oral corticosteroids,  ranging from none to two or more in the last 6 months.
the "balloon" must be "blown up" by inhalation, not  exhalation.
the american  academy of pediatrics recommends exclusively breastfeeding for a baby's first 6  months.
2009 mar;123(3):e519-25.
these  medications should be used for the shortest time possible, and should only be  used by patients whose asthma is not adequately controlled by other medications.
avoiding or controlling environmental triggers is always important.
click the icon to see an illustrated series detailing a metered dose inhaler.
they may also help prevent the development of asthma in children with allergies.
one  method for this is as follows: the child sits comfortably, bending slight forward with the eyes closed.
control of environmental factors and other asthma triggers.
if you experience any of these symptoms, your doctor may  recommend discontinuing the drug.
in about 5% of cases, aspirin is responsible for a syndrome that involves multiple attacks of asthma, sinusitis, and nasal congestion.
some studies suggest that children who have allergies are also at greater risk for developing asthma as adults.
mental health difficulties and behavioral changes have been associated with these medications.
short-acting bronchodilators are generally administered through inhalation and are effective for 3 - 6 hours.
some  patients hold the mdi too close to their mouths, or even inside them.
about 70 - 85% of children with asthma also have allergies.
short-acting bronchodilators are generally administered through inhalation  and are effective for 3 - 6 hours.
weight  control and diet.].
some patients find that they are easier to manage than mdis.
symptoms of a life-threatening attack the following signs and symptoms may indicate a life-threatening situation: as the chest labors to bring enough air into the lungs, breathing often  becomes shallow.
these growth changes are mostly when higher doses are being used.
a short-acting inhaled beta2-agonist, taken as needed, is often the only medication used by children with chronic mild asthma.
asthma action plans create a written document for patients and parents to manage asthma during stable times and to more easily identify when asthma is worsening.
exercise-induced asthma (eia) is a limited condition that has specific recommendations.
forced expiratory volume (fev1), the maximum volume of air expired in 1  second.
albuterol (proventil, ventolin), called salbutamol outside the u.s., is the standard short-acting beta2-agonist in america.
air cleaners, filters for air conditioners, and vacuum cleaners with high efficiency particular air (hepa) filters can help remove particles and small allergens found indoors.
encourage children with asthma to swim and play sports, such as baseball, that will be less difficult for them.
no adverse effects on the liver have been reported to date with montelukast.
six specific components  of severity are used to classify patients.
at least half of patients with asthma also have gastroesophageal reflux disease (gerd), the cause of heartburn.
to date, however, evidence does not support most alternative therapies, including high-dose vitamins, urine injections, homeopathic remedies, and most herbal remedies.
lacking enough oxygen, the skin becomes bluish.
metered-dose inhaler.
avoiding outdoor allergens.
the fda advises that they should  only be used in combination with an asthma controller medication, such as an  inhaled corticosteroid.
examples of inhaled corticosteroids: inhaled corticosteroids are the preferred first-line therapy for children with asthma.
symptoms in children with asthmatic symptoms, it is important to first consider as a  possible cause inhaled foreign objects such as peanuts; viral infections such  as croup; and bacterial infections, which may be accompanied by high fever and  progress rapidly.
these medications quickly control acute asthma attacks.
they can also help prevent asthma attacks from occurring.
studies indicate that the more indoor allergens a child is allergic to,  the higher the risk for severe asthma.
wheezing is a  whistling sound caused by the narrowed airways.
studies also indicate that with the use of a face mask and a spacer, the mdi  works well even for infants in the emergency room and may prove to be useable  at home.
prolonged use of oral steroids has widespread and sometimes serious side effects, so they are not generally give to children for longer than 5 - 7 days.
the classic symptoms of an asthma attack include: any of these symptoms may worsen with exercise, viral infections, exposure to irritants, stress, or changes in weather.
it is a particularly severe asthmatic condition, associated with many  asthma-related hospitalizations.
these are the primary allergens in the home.
this exercise both relaxes the child and discourages shallow, oxygen-poor  breathing.
wheezing and bronchial hyper-responsiveness in early childhood as predictors of newly diagnosed asthma in early adulthood: a longitudinal birth-cohort study.
allergic asthma is triggered by inhaling certain substances (allergens) such as: an asthma attack can be induced or aggravated by direct irritants to the lungs.
dry powder inhalers (dpis) deliver a powdered  form of beta2-agonists or corticosteroids directly into the lungs.
the major  features of the lungs include the bronchi, the bronchioles, and the alveoli.
recent studies suggest spacers may be better than nebulizers for children, and they shorten the time spent in emergency rooms.
the patient may begin to lose consciousness.
asthma and allergies often coexist, and the allergic response plays a strong role in childhood asthma.
omalizumab should always be injected in a doctor’s office and health care providers should observe patients for at least 2 hours after an injection.
hispanic children are also at higher risk.
based on a patient’s age and asthma severity, there are specific recommendations regarding whether to use long-term control medications and which ones to use.
washing hands is a very simple but effective preventive measure.
they reduce inflammation very effectively.
moreover, the drugs are not approved specifically for asthma.
2009 aug;124(2):185-92, 192.e1-9; quiz 193-4.
the naepp specifies different treatment plans for  children based on three age groups: 0 - 4 years, 5 - 11 years, and 12 years and  older.
2010 mar 18;362(11):975-85.
some studies indicate that long-term exercise may help control asthma and reduce hospitalization.
race and ethnicity african-american children have significantly higher rates of asthma than  caucasian children.
omalizumab (xolair) is fda-approved for patients age 12 and older.
causes the exact cause of asthma is unknown.
j allergy clin immunol.
these mothers tend to  have babies born at a low birth weight, which affects lung function and  increases their baby's risks for asthma food allergies.
the spacer helps improve medication delivery by allowing the patient  additional time to inhale.
inhaled drugs must be used regularly as prescribed and the patient carefully trained in their use in order for them to be effective and safe.
medications that open the  airways (bronchodilators or inhalers) are used to quickly relieve any moderate  or severe asthma attack.
eia occurs only after exercise and is more likely to occur with regular paced activities in cold, dry air.
the standard device for administering any  asthma medication is the metered-dose inhaler (mdi).
their use has been associated with a higher rate of hospitalizations and longer duration of symptoms than inhalers.
patients who take a leukotriene antagonist drug should be monitored for signs of behavioral and mood changes.
about 8 - 10% of children with asthma also have food  allergies.
patients should be reevaluated within 2 - 6 weeks of starting therapy to assess response.
the use of inhaled corticosteroids in patients with moderate-to-severe asthma reduces the risk of rehospitalization and death from asthma.
usually, the dosage starts out higher and is gradually reduced over a 5 - 7 day period.
in addition, mdis can continue to deliver propellant  even after the drug has been used up.
[for more information, seein-depth report #53:
dry powder inhalers.
patients should consult their doctors before starting any exercise program.
studies also indicate that infants who have reduced lung function within a few days after birth are at increased risk of developing asthma by the time they are 10 years old.
factors that may contribute to this include parental history of asthma, atopic dermatitis, and known sensitivity to different allergens or foods.
any child who has frequent coughing or respiratory infections should be checked for asthma.
aia often develops after a viral infection.
if children must use an albuterol nebulizer, parents  should be sure that it does not contain the preservative benzalkonium, which  actually narrows the airways.
if asthma continues to worsen with the use of these drugs, a doctor may prescribe corticosteroids or other drugs to treat underlying inflammation.
any child who has frequent coughing or respiratory infections  should be checked for asthma.
humidity levels should not exceed 30 - 50%.
zafirlukast may cause liver injury when taken at higher than standard doses.
complications of pregnancy.
hispanic children also have a higher risk.
taking a corticosteroid drug through an inhaler makes it possible to provide effective local anti inflammatory activity in the lungs with very few side effects elsewhere in the body.
labas should only be used in combination with an asthma controller medication, such as an inhaled corticosteroid.
these drugs are considered an alternative for long-term control of asthma, but inhaled corticosteroids should always be used first.
von mutius e, drazen jm.
they can be dangerous when used alone, because they can mask asthma symptoms, and they can increase the risk of asthma death unless paired with an inhaled steroid.
mdi-delivered drugs must be used regularly as prescribed and the patient  carefully trained in their use in order for them to be effective and safe.
it serves as a holding chamber for the medication that is sprayed by the inhaler.)
side effects of beta2-agonists.
when people with asthma try to take those same deep breaths, their  airways do not relax but instead narrow, causing the patients to pant for  breath.
patient education, environmental control measures, and management of any other conditions are also included.
(most likely the reason for the  higher fatalities rates in minority children.)
the basic devices are the metered-dose inhaler (mdi), dry powder inhalers, and nebulizers.
one of the most common methods of allergy testing  is the scratch test or skin prick test.
outdoor air pollutants and patient health.
the allergic response (allergens) asthma and allergies often coexist, and the allergic response plays a  strong role in childhood asthma.
some parents, however, report these drugs are helpful for treating wheezing in infants.
the test involves placing a small  amount of the suspected allergy-causing substance (allergen) on the skin  (usually the forearm, upper arm, or the back), then scratching or pricking the  skin so that the allergen is introduced under the skin surface.
the next step is to help the child relax.
exercise-induced asthma (eia) exercise-induced asthma (eia) is a limited form of asthma in which exercise  triggers coughing, wheezing, or shortness of breath.
instead, they work over time to reduce inflammation and prevent permanent injury in the lungs.
choosing asthma step-up care.
cromolyn sodium (intal) is both an anti-inflammatory drug and has antihistamine properties that block asthma triggers, such as allergens, cold, or exercise.
children adapt well to living with asthma, and even with severe asthma they can function as well as healthy children in virtually all areas of life.
issues surrounding birth a variety of pregnancy and perinatal factors have been associated with risk  for asthma, although none are very well studied or proven.
allergy skin tests help diagnose for allergic asthma, although they are not recommended for people with year-round asthma.
beta2-agonists and  anticholinergics do not have any effect on the disease process itself.
complications of pregnancy,  specifically those involving the mother's uterus (such as post-birth  hemorrhage, pre-term contractions, insufficient placenta, and restricted growth  of the uterus), are associated with an increased risk of childhood asthma.
patient education, environmental control measures, and management of any other  conditions are also included.
however, doctors caution against corticosteroids for infants and toddlers with mild asthma and urge close monitoring, especially for children under age 5 with severe asthma who are receiving high doses.
factors that may contribute to this  include parental history of asthma, atopic dermatitis, and known sensitivity to  different allergens or foods.
it is not  entirely clear which condition causes the other or whether they are both due to  common factors.
patients should be reevaluated within 2 - 6 weeks  of starting therapy to assess response.
the skin is  observed closely for signs of a reaction, which usually includes swelling and  redness of the site.
effects of early nutritional interventions on the development of atopic disease in infants and children: the role of maternal dietary restriction, breastfeeding, timing of introduction of complementary foods, and hydrolyzed formulas.
these mood problems include agitation, aggression, anxiousness, dream abnormalities, hallucinations, depression, insomnia, irritability, restlessness, tremor, and suicidal thinking and behavior.
this device, particularly  when used with a spacer, allows precise doses to be delivered directly to the  lungs.
an important exception is the  respiratory syncytial virus (rsv), which is associated with the development of  asthma.
ethnicity and genetics, however, are less likely to play a role in these  differences than socioeconomic differences, such as having less access to  optimal health care, and greater likelihood of living in an urban area.
the risk for such injury is highest when asthma strikes children in their first 3 - 5 years.
omalizumab is a biologic drug that targets and blocks the antibody immunoglobulin e (ige), a a chemical trigger of the inflammatory events associated with an allergic asthma attack.
theophylline should not be used by people with peptic ulcers, and should be used with caution by anyone with heart disease, liver disease, high blood pressure, or seizure disorders.
the following are some recommendations for avoiding allergens outside: parents should make sure that their child’s school has a copy of the written asthma action plan.
2009 aug;124(2):195-200.
the hands are placed gently over the navel.