if you don’t have a tissue, you should cough or sneeze into  you elbow or shoulder,not your hand.
seasonal flu vaccine is also recommended for pregnant women and can be given at any time during pregnancy.
stay home if you are sick.
these medicines can be taken  by people who are sick with flu to help bring down their fever and relieve  their pain.
flu vaccines talk to your health care provider about whether you should be  vaccinated.
" support daemen more info » annual fund an on-going appeal, the annual fund  directs gifts to support the scholarship fund and general operations of the  college.
how do i recognize a fever or signs of a fever?
we  are at the top of the list to receive vaccine and we will make them available  to you as soon as our shipment comes in.
generally, people with either type of flu can manage recovery at home with  little or no medical attention.
public health officials and medical authorities will not be  recommending laboratory tests.
pregnant women should follow the same guidance as everyone else related to staying home when sick, hand hygiene, respiratory etiquette, and routine cleaning.
risk groups these individuals should consult with their health care providers with the  onset of flu-like symptoms, or following recent close contact with someone who  has the flu: people of any age with certain medical conditions, including: asthma heart, lung, liver, or kidney disease pregnant women adults 65 years and older children under five years old q.
wash your hands often with soap and water, especially after coughing or sneezing.
daemen college : student life : health services : flu
practice respiratory etiquette.
for further information go to www.flu.gov or call the swine flu hotline at (800) 808-1987.
get  plenty of rest, take acetaminophen or ibuprofen for fever and pain, drink  plenty of liquids.
the  vaccine will be available on campus on a date to be announced.
the vaccine will be available on campus on a date to be announced.
pregnant women should know that they are part of the first priority group  to receive the 2009 h1n1 flu vaccine when it becomes available.
for further information go to www.flu.gov or call the swine flu hotline at  (800) 808-1987.
students, faculty and staff should consider getting the h1n1 flu shot when it becomes available.
i was an accounting intern for both a private health care company and a certified public accounting firm.
q.  what fever-reducing medications can i take?
cleaners are also effective.
pregnant women are at higher risks of complications from flu and, like all people at higher risk, should speak with their health care provider as soon as possible if they develop flu-like symptoms.
get plenty of rest, take acetaminophen or ibuprofen for fever and pain, drink plenty of liquids.
symptoms of flu include fever or chills and cough or sore throat.
start your journey now close student profiles accounting read full profile "i think one of the most crucial aspects of the daemen curriculum is  the required internship.
when my internships were over, each company offered me a full-time position."
when my  internships were over, each company offered me a full-time  position.
seasonal  flu vaccine is also recommended for pregnant women and can be given at any time  during pregnancy.
a fever is a temperature that is equal to or greater than 100 degrees  fahrenheit (or 38 degrees celsius) when taken with a thermometer.
promptly seek medical attention if you have a medical condition that places  you at higher risk of flu-related complications or develop severe symptoms.
wash your hands often with soap and  water, especially after coughing or sneezing.
learn more about the flu as part of our health &  wellness fair in wick center this fall.
due to a shortage of seasonal flu vaccine, flu shots will not  be available for the health & wellness fair on october 27.
start your journey now close accountingread full profile "i think one of the most crucial aspects of the daemen curriculum is the required internship.
learn more about the flu as part of our health & wellness fair in wick center this fall.
pregnant women are at higher risks of complications from flu and, like all  people at higher risk, should speak with their health care provider as soon as  possible if they develop flu-like symptoms.
it will be very hard to tell if someone who is sick has seasonal flu or  2009 h1n1.
click here for more flu prevention tips.
daemen college’s leads center provides leadership development, provides and encourages the development of consciousness of self, fosters inclusive collaborative relationships, social change, and civic responsibility.
these individuals should consult with their health care providers with the onset of flu-like symptoms, or following recent close contact with someone who has the flu: a fever is a temperature that is equal to or greater than 100 degrees fahrenheit (or 38 degrees celsius) when taken with a thermometer.
health services -  839-8446.
however, certain people are at higher  risks of serious flu-related complications.
promptly seek medical attention if you have a medical condition that places you at higher risk of flu-related complications or develop severe symptoms.
world of opportunity wizard
look for these possible signs of fever: if someone feels very warm, has a flushed appearance, or is sweating or shivering.
i was an accounting intern for both a private health  care company and a certified public accounting firm.
i was able to apply  lessons learned in the classroom to real business situations.
q.  how do i know if i have seasonal flu or 2009 h1n1?
seasonal and h1n1 (swine) flu symptoms of flu include fever or chills and cough or sore
annual fund an on-going appeal, the annual fund directs gifts to support the scholarship fund and general operations of the college.
severe symptoms include increased fever, shortness of breath, chest pain  or pressure, fast breathing, bluish skin color, dizziness or confusion, or if  you get better but then your symptoms return, even worse.
information below are some tips and facts on how to take care of yourself if you have the flu and also to keep others healthy.
pregnant women should know that they are part of the first priority group to receive the 2009 h1n1 flu vaccine when it becomes available.
q.  what steps can students, faculty, and staff take to stay healthy  and keep from spreading the flu?
if you don’t have a tissue, you should cough or sneeze into you elbow or shoulder,not your hand.
the main way flu spreads is from  person to person in droplets produced by coughs and sneezes, so it’s  important that you cover their mouth and nose with a tissue when you cough or  sneeze.
talk to your health care provider about whether you should be vaccinated .
i was able to apply lessons learned in the classroom to real business situations.
health services - 839-8446.
aspirin (acetylsalicylic acid) should not be given to anyone  younger than 18 years of age who have flu; this can cause a rare but serious  illness called reye’s syndrome.
look  for these possible signs of fever: if someone feels very warm, has a flushed  appearance, or is sweating or shivering.
these medicines can be taken by people who are sick with flu to help bring down their fever and relieve their pain.
due to a shortage of seasonal flu vaccine, flu shots will not be available for the health & wellness fair on october 27.
stay home or in your residence room for at least 24 hours after you no longer have a fever, without the use of fever-reducing medication.
did you know daemen has a program that concentrates on developing  your leadership skills?
alcohol-based (62% alcohol)
public health officials and medical authorities will not be recommending laboratory tests.
practice good hand hygiene.
daemen college : student life : health services : flu information flu information below are some tips and facts on how to take care of yourself if you have  the flu and also to keep others healthy.
we are at the top of the list to receive vaccine and we will make them available to you as soon as our shipment comes in.
q.  what actions should pregnant students, faculty or staff take to  protect themselves?
fever-reducing medications are medicines that contain acetaminophen (such as tylenol) or ibuprofen (such as motrin).
it will be very hard to tell if someone who is sick has seasonal flu or 2009 h1n1.
the main way flu spreads is from person to person in droplets produced by coughs and sneezes, so it’s important that you cover their mouth and nose with a tissue when you cough or sneeze.
daemen college’s leads center provides leadership development,  provides and encourages the development of consciousness of self, fosters  inclusive collaborative relationships, social change, and civic responsibility.
in addition, symptoms of flu can include runny nose, body aches, headache, tiredness, diarrhea, or vomiting.
early treatment with  antiviral flu medications is recommended for pregnant women who have the flu;  these medications are most effective when started within the first 48 hours of  feeling sick.
students, faculty and staff  should consider getting the h1n1 flu shot when it becomes available.
stay home or in your  residence room for at least 24 hours after you no longer have a fever, without  the use of fever-reducing medication.
daemen college : 4380 main street, amherst, ny 14226 : 800.462.7652
generally, people with either type of flu can manage recovery at home with little or no medical attention.
fever-reducing medications are medicines that contain acetaminophen (such  as tylenol) or ibuprofen (such as motrin).
however, certain people are at higher risks of serious flu-related complications.
pregnant women should follow the same guidance as everyone else related to  staying home when sick, hand hygiene, respiratory etiquette, and routine  cleaning.
q.  what should i do if i have flu-like symptoms?
talk to your health care provider about whether you should be vaccinated.
early treatment with antiviral flu medications is recommended for pregnant women who have the flu; these medications are most effective when started within the first 48 hours of feeling sick.
in addition, symptoms of flu can include runny nose, body aches,  headache, tiredness, diarrhea, or vomiting.
aspirin (acetylsalicylic acid) should not be given to anyone younger than 18 years of age who have flu; this can cause a rare but serious illness called reye’s syndrome.
don’t go to school or work.
alcohol-based (62% alcohol) cleaners are also effective.