if your blood vessels are already narrowed from atherosclerosis — the buildup of fatty deposits in your arteries — a fatty deposit in your vessel can burst.
if you need to take ibuprofen more often, talk to your doctor about medication alternatives that won't interfere with daily aspirin therapy.
if you have strong risk factors, but have not had a heart attack or stroke, you may also benefit from taking an aspirin every day.
subscribe to receive the latest updates on health topics.
if you're already taking an anticoagulant such as warfarin (coumadin) for  another condition, combining it with aspirin may greatly increase the risk of  major bleeding complications.
and then, only take aspirin with your doctor's approval.
this recommendation still holds true if you are on daily aspirin therapy.
if you have certain bleeding disorders, you shouldn't take an aspirin during a heart attack.
taking aspirin with other anticoagulants, such as warfarin (coumadin), could greatly increase your chance of bleeding.
© 1998-2012 mayo foundation for medical education and research.
aspirin can have different effects between the sexes, and for women, among  age groups.
understand the benefits and risks is an aspirin a day the right thing for you?
if you take daily  aspirin therapy, you should not have more than one drink a day if you're a  woman or two drinks a day if you're a man.
you might be surprised to learn that stopping daily aspirin therapy can have a rebound effect that may increase your risk of heart attack or stroke.
very low doses of aspirin — 75 milligrams (mg), which is less than a standard baby aspirin — can be effective.
about our newsletters housecall, our weekly general-interest e-newsletter, keeps you up to date on a wide variety of health topics with timely, reliable, practical information, recipes, blogs, questions and answers with mayo clinic experts and more.
this prevents blood flow to the heart or brain and causes a heart attack or stroke.
more studies are needed to better understand the differences between plain aspirin and enteric-coated aspirin.
other medications and herbal supplements also may increase your risk of  bleeding.
it's also important to tell your doctor what other medications or supplements you might be taking, even if it's just ibuprofen (advil, motrin, others).
legal conditions and terms of use applicable to all users of this site.
side effects and complications of taking aspirin include: hemorrhagic stroke.
ringing in the ears (tinnitus) and hearing loss.
© 1998-2012 mayo foundation for medical education and research (mfmer).
although taking an occasional aspirin or  two is safe for most adults to use for headaches, body aches or fever, daily  use of aspirin can have serious side effects, including internal bleeding.
you should consider daily aspirin therapy only if you've had a heart  attack or stroke, or you have a high risk of either.
any use of this site constitutes your agreement to these terms and conditions of use.
diabetes stress having more than two alcoholic drinks a day for men, one drink a day for  women family history of a stroke or heart attack
you might be surprised to learn that stopping daily aspirin therapy can  have a rebound effect that may increase your risk of heart attack or stroke.
suddenly stopping daily aspirin  therapy could have a rebound effect that may trigger a blood clot.
what are possible drug interactions with daily aspirin therapy?
superaspirin refers to a newer class of drugs that are available as an alternative or supplement to aspirin.
you and your doctor will discuss what dose is right for you.
the food and drug administration also warns that people who regularly take aspirin should limit the amount of alcohol they drink because of its additional blood-thinning effects and potential to upset your stomach.
the platelets help form a plug that seals the opening in your blood vessel to  stop bleeding.
other medications and herbal supplements also may increase your risk of bleeding.
know the benefits and risks before considering daily aspirin  therapy.
gastrointestinal bleeding.
if you are currently taking plavix and aspirin but haven't had a heart attack or stroke, don't stop taking it suddenly.
does daily aspirin therapy differ between men and women?
it's not as easy a decision  as it sounds.
risk factors for a heart attack or stroke include: if you've had a heart attack or stroke, chances are your doctor has talked to you about taking aspirin to prevent a second occurrence.
your doctor may prescribe a daily dose anywhere from 81 mg — the amount in a baby aspirin — to 325 mg (regular strength).
taking some dietary supplements can also increase your bleeding risk.
your doctor may prescribe a  daily dose anywhere from 81 mg — the amount in a baby aspirin — to  325 mg (regular strength).
what are the possible side effects of daily aspirin therapy?
if your blood vessels are already narrowed from  atherosclerosis — the buildup of fatty deposits in your arteries —  a fatty deposit in your vessel can burst.
suddenly stopping daily aspirin therapy could have a rebound effect that may trigger a blood clot.
daily aspirin use increases  your risk of developing a stomach ulcer.
chewing the aspirin speeds up the absorption process and minimizes any delay in the beneficial effects of aspirin.
whether you need daily aspirin therapy depends on your risk of heart  disease and stroke.
can you take aspirin if you regularly take ibuprofen for another condition?
although taking an occasional aspirin or two is safe for most adults to use for headaches, body aches or fever, daily use of aspirin can have serious side effects, including internal bleeding.
it's also important to tell your doctor what other medications or  supplements you might be taking, even if it's just ibuprofen (advil, motrin,  others).
you and your doctor will discuss what dose is right for  you.
there's no uniform dose of aspirin you should take to get the benefits of daily aspirin therapy.
however, there may be some conditions for which combining a low dose of aspirin with warfarin is appropriate (for example, with certain types of artificial heart valves for secondary stroke prevention), but this therapy always needs to be carefully discussed with your doctor.
regular ibuprofen use can increase your bleeding risk.
you should consider daily aspirin therapy only if you've had a heart attack or stroke, or you have a high risk of either.
then, a blood clot can quickly form  and block the artery.
and then, only take  aspirin with your doctor's approval.
though they have similar effects as aspirin, they work by a slightly different action.
however, there may be some conditions for which  combining a low dose of aspirin with warfarin is appropriate (for example, with  certain types of artificial heart valves for secondary stroke prevention), but  this therapy always needs to be carefully discussed with your doctor.
new — mayo clinic healthy heart for life!
the food and drug administration also warns that people who regularly take  aspirin should limit the amount of alcohol they drink because of its additional  blood-thinning effects and potential to upset your stomach.
however, it takes longer for your body to absorb enteric-coated aspirin, and it doesn't appear to offer significant protection against bleeding in your stomach and intestines.
for permission to reprint multiple copies or to order presentation-ready copies for distribution, use the reprints link below.
these medications may be used: superaspirin may be an option if you are resistant to aspirin (meaning you don't get the clot-preventing benefits), are allergic to aspirin or can't tolerate its side effects.
first, you'll  want to discuss with your doctor whether you have any conditions that make  taking aspirin dangerous for you.
what's the best dose of aspirin to take?
aspirin therapy reduces the clumping action of  platelets — possibly preventing heart attack and stroke.
side effects and complications of taking aspirin include: if you're taking aspirin and need a surgical procedure or dental work, be sure to tell the surgeon or dentist that you take daily aspirin and how much.
both aspirin and ibuprofen reduce the clotting action of blood platelets.
should you avoid daily aspirin therapy if you have another health  condition?
medications that can interact with aspirin include: warfarin (coumadin) ibuprofen (advil, motrin, others), when taken regularly corticosteroids some antidepressants (clomipramine, paroxetine, others)
if you need to take ibuprofen more often, talk to  your doctor about medication alternatives that won't interfere with daily  aspirin therapy.
share on: clicking "send" signifies that you have read and agree to our privacy policy.
too much  aspirin (overdosing) can cause tinnitus and eventual hearing loss in some  people.
for men of all ages, aspirin can: for women younger than 65, aspirin can: for women 65 and older, aspirin can: the risk of bleeding with daily aspirin therapy, however, is about the same in both sexes.
it's gentler on the stomach and may be appropriate for some people who take a daily aspirin, especially in those with a history of gastritis or ulcers.
privacy policy (updated aug. 2, 2011)
daily aspirin therapy: understand the benefits and risksguidelines for sites linking to mayoclinic.com check out these best-sellers and special offers on books and newsletters from mayo clinic.
these conditions  include: a bleeding or clotting disorder (bleeding easily) asthma stomach ulcers heart failure for people who have diabetes, the american diabetes association and other  medical associations recommend a low-dose aspirin only for men older than 50  and women older than 60 who have at least one additional risk factor for heart  disease, such as smoking, family history of heart disease, high cholesterol or  high blood pressure.
but this clotting can also happen within the vessels that supply your heart and brain with blood.
there's no uniform dose of aspirin you should take to get the benefits of  daily aspirin therapy.
aspirin interferes with your blood's clotting action.
for men of all ages, aspirin can: prevent a first and second heart attack reduce heart disease risk for women younger than 65, aspirin can: prevent a first stroke prevent a second heart attack reduce heart disease risk
should you take a daily aspirin?
while daily aspirin can help prevent  a clot-related stroke, it may increase your risk of a bleeding stroke  (hemorrhagic stroke).
if you take daily aspirin therapy, you should not have more than one drink a day if you're a woman or two drinks a day if you're a man.
our biweekly topic-specific e-newsletters also include blogs, questions and answers with mayo clinic experts, and other useful information that will help you manage your health.
if you're taking aspirin and need a surgical procedure or dental work, be  sure to tell the surgeon or dentist that you take daily aspirin and how much.
these medications are called platelet aggregation inhibitors and reduce the risk of blood clots.
very low doses of aspirin — 75 milligrams (mg), which is less than a  standard baby aspirin — can be effective.
terms and conditions of use policy (updated aug. 2, 2011)
taking aspirin with other anticoagulants, such as warfarin  (coumadin), could greatly increase your chance of bleeding.
we comply with the honcode standard for trustworthy health information:verify here.
if you're allergic to aspirin, taking  any amount of aspirin can trigger a serious allergic reaction.
for women 65 and older, aspirin can: prevent a first and second heart attack prevent a first stroke reduce heart disease risk the risk of bleeding with daily aspirin therapy, however, is about the  same in both sexes.
when you bleed, your  blood's clotting cells, called platelets, build up at the site of your wound.
you shouldn't take a daily aspirin if you have some health conditions that  could increase your risk of bleeding or other complications.
the combination of aspirin and clopidogrel (plavix) is recommended only for people who have specific heart or blood vessel conditions.
when you bleed, your blood's clotting cells, called platelets, build up at the site of your wound.
"mayo," "mayo clinic," "mayoclinic.com," "embodyhealth," "enhance your life," and the triple-shield mayo clinic logo are trademarks of mayo foundation for medical education and research.
how does aspirin prevent a heart attack or stroke?
if you need only a single dose of ibuprofen, take it eight hours before or 30 minutes after the aspirin.
if  you've been on daily aspirin therapy and want to stop, it's important to talk  to your doctor before making any changes.
risk factors for a heart attack or stroke include: smoking tobacco high blood pressure — a systolic pressure of 140 millimeters of  mercury (mm hg) or higher or a diastolic pressure of 90 mm hg or higher total cholesterol level of 240 milligrams per deciliter (mg/dl) —  6.22 millimoles per liter (mmol/l) — or higher low-density lipoprotein ("bad") cholesterol level of 130 mg/dl  (3.37 mmol/l) or higher lack of exercise
by mayo clinic staff daily aspirin therapy may lower your risk of heart attack and stroke, but  daily aspirin therapy isn't for everyone.
enteric-coated aspirin is designed to pass through your stomach and not disintegrate until it reaches your intestines.
if you have strong risk factors, but have not had a heart attack or  stroke, you may also benefit from taking an aspirin every day.
daily aspirin therapy may lower your risk of heart attack and stroke, but daily aspirin therapy isn't for everyone.
these include: for most people experiencing heart attack symptoms, doctors recommend chewing and swallowing one plain regular-strength aspirin or two to four baby aspirin.
if you need only a single dose of ibuprofen, take it eight hours before or  30 minutes after the aspirin.
first, you'll want to discuss with your doctor whether you have any conditions that make taking aspirin dangerous for you.
· order reprints of this article now.
otherwise you risk excessive bleeding during surgery.
these include: danshen
the platelets help form a plug that seals the opening in your blood vessel to stop bleeding.
talk to your doctor first.
what happens if you stop taking aspirin every day?
this class of drugs includes clopidogrel (plavix), eptifibatide (integrilin) and others.
this single copy is for your personal, noncommercial use only.
then, a blood clot can quickly form and block the artery.
taking aspirin could make a bleeding stroke more severe.
you shouldn't take a daily aspirin if you have some health conditions that could increase your risk of bleeding or other complications.
taking aspirin and ibuprofen together reduces the beneficial effects of the aspirin.
recipes, tools and other helpful information
aspirin can have different effects between the sexes, and for women, among age groups.
and, if you have a bleeding ulcer,  taking aspirin will cause it to bleed more, perhaps to a life-threatening  extent.
taking aspirin and ibuprofen together reduces the beneficial effects  of the aspirin.
don't take aspirin if you think you're having a stroke, because not all strokes are caused by blood clots; some are caused by ruptured blood vessels.
if you've been on daily aspirin therapy and want to stop, it's important to talk to your doctor before making any changes.
if you have questions or concerns about the type of aspirin you take, ask your doctor to determine the best option for you.
we do not share your e-mail address sign up view the health heart book daily aspirin therapy:
but this clotting can also happen within the vessels that supply your  heart and brain with blood.
aspirin therapy reduces the clumping action of platelets — possibly preventing heart attack and stroke.
these conditions include: for people who have diabetes, the american diabetes association and other medical associations recommend a low-dose aspirin only for men older than 50 and women older than 60 who have at least one additional risk factor for heart disease, such as smoking, family history of heart disease, high cholesterol or high blood pressure.
if you're already taking an anticoagulant such as warfarin (coumadin) for another condition, combining it with aspirin may greatly increase the risk of major bleeding complications.
if you've had a heart attack or stroke, chances are your doctor has talked  to you about taking aspirin to prevent a second occurrence.
medications that can interact with aspirin include: taking some dietary supplements can also increase your bleeding risk.
a single copy of these materials may be reprinted for noncommercial personal use only.
this prevents blood flow to the heart or brain and causes  a heart attack or stroke.
whether you need daily aspirin therapy depends on your risk of heart disease and stroke.