dengue has been found along the u.s.-mexico border, where 151 classic and 46 hemorrhagic cases were recorded last year in the gulf state of tamaulipas, south of texas.
“we hope that our study will alert emergency medicine physicians and other healthcare providers to this hazardous practice,” said dr. mittal.
public citizen’s health research group did a similar analysis and  ranking 20 years ago.
women physicians are less likely to receive payment than their male counterparts.
antibiotics not necessary to treat most abscesses, even in the presence of mrsa
torres was office manager and patient recruiter  at coral way from october 2004 through march 2005, when the clinic closed.
(washington post) medassets to expand revenue cycle suite offering with agreement to acquire xactimed medassets inc. and xactimed inc. announced today, they entered into an agreement whereby medassets will acquire xactimed, a provider of web-based revenue cycle technologies and services to the healthcare industry.
gpo’s and the federal government have contracted for spsmedical products, which are available through authorized distributors worldwide.
in the first national survey to gauge the predictors and depth  of relationships between industry and practicing physicians, 94 percent of  doctors report that they have at least one type of relationship with the drug  industry, mostly in the form of receiving food in the workplace or prescription  samples.
louisiana and south carolina saw rises in 2004 and have not yet reported on 2005.
we’ve been putting a lot of stakes  in the ground, but this is the center pole that will allow us to put up the  tent and get everybody covered.”
foodnet monitors foodborne  disease and related epidemiologic studies to help health officials better  understand the epidemiology of foodborne diseases in the united states.
people experiencing these symptoms should seek immediate medical attention.
criteria for depression are too broad, researchers say up to 25 percent of people in whom psychiatrists would currently diagnose depression may only be reacting normally to stressful events such as a divorce or losing a job, according to a new analysis that reexamined how the standard diagnostic criteria are used.
a liver transplant costs about $370,000 on average, while bariatric surgery costs $40,000 in pennsylvania, depending on the negotiated rate with the person’s health plan.
“as a nation, we are eating more but doing less exercise, and so the  average weight is increasing, but within the population some people seem to put  on more weight than others,” explains professor andrew hattersley from  the peninsula medical school.
in next year’s budget, passed amid discovery of contamination problems in spinach, tomatoes and lettuce, congress has voted the fda a $10 million increase to improve food safety, dewaal said.
the multi-year agreement was effective april 1, 2007.
this suggested that the test may eliminate many of the  “false-positive” psa results, readings that are abnormal but  apparently do not denote cancer.
pediatric intensive-care units also are  adopting new programs to sharply reduce or eliminate urinary-tract infections  for children with bladder catheters, and pneumonia for children on ventilators,  the two most prevalent complications after bloodstream infections.
budget builder provides members with list pricing information for more  than 17,000 equipment items and over 1,500 suppliers.
cardinal health has  also expressed support for a single industry solution for contract commitment.
a “top 20 at cdc.gov” section allows visitors to quickly view a list of the most popular health topics, and access each directly from the home page.
the guidance makes it clear that nearly all hospitals, including specialty hospitals and others without emergency departments, must be able to evaluate persons with emergencies, provide initial treatment, and refer or transfer these individuals when appropriate.
between 1993 and  2003, 1,458 new cases of breast cancer occurred among the women.
whether a facility wants to  upgrade one alarm unit for a single bed or 300 new alarm units for an entire  facility, the rf technologies trade-in program can be tailored to meet specific  needs.
the study  found that parents were the source of pertussis, commonly known as whooping  cough, in 55 percent of infants.
genetic analysis showed that virus of the same genotype and subtype was isolated from both patients, and that the isolates had identical dna sequences in a sampled region.
“this is an epidemic that is going to cost the country in terms of  morbidity and mortality and economically,” said dr. risa lavizzo-mourey,  the foundation’s president and chief executive.
“in many cases, the environment makes it almost impossible for them to choose healthy lifestyles,” dr. lavizzo-mourey said.
historically, amerisourcebergen has proactively cooperated with the dea in preventing diversion of hydrocodone and other controlled substances, and will fully cooperate with the agency in resolving the temporary suspension.
in the winter of 2004-2005, an influenza b virus caused a widespread epidemic in japan, creating an opportunity to assess the effectiveness of neuraminidase inhibitors.
cms has designated 10 entities as qualified to accredit dme suppliers, based on quality standards that were posted on the cms website in august 2006.
ahrq also  found that patients who have been diagnosed with both a mental health condition  and a substance abuse disorder, those with “dual diagnoses”,  accounted for 1 million of the nearly 8 million stays.
illinois gives doctors a 72-hour window to  safely apologize after they learn about the cause of a medical mishap.
for a virtual tour seethis link.
“what it  does is make sure that to free up an icu bed a hospital doesn’t forget  the patient may have wanted to be a donor or their family may want them to be a  donor.”
both adult patients suffered skin  irritation, while both adolescents had potentially life-threatening reactions,  including liver toxicity and hypoglycemia (low blood sugar), as well as nausea,  vomiting and dizziness.
the plan is expected to be approved by the commonwealth health insurance connector authority on thursday.
recent estimates communicated to who by 98 countries show  that the most sought after organ is the kidney.
“dengue exists more as a continuous  spectrum,” dr. wichmann said.
statins linked to lower risk of infection; markedly lower frequency of  sepsis in dialysis patients observed touro infirmary selects broadlane for supply chain services criteria for depression are too broad, researchers say total shoulder replacements as safe as swapping out hips and knees research shows masimo acoustic respiratory monitoring technology  provides “significantly more reliable monitoring of respiration  rate”
all of the orlando distribution center’s dea audits,  the most recent within the last year, were passed with no deficiencies found.
the  current report recommends increasing public funding to support a program for  research.
for more information  click here.
when researchers examined the first wave of baby boomers (5,030 adults born between 1948 and 1953)to enter a federally funded health and retirement study which is tracking more than 20,000 u.s. adults as they move through middle age toward retirement, they were shocked to discover that they appeared to report poorer health than groups born between 1936 and 1941, and between 1942 and 1947.
searchable computerized databases also allow physicians to examine information collected across time and space.
in addition, a nasal cannula was placed, secured with tape, and connected to a  capnometer.
those interested in fabric samples or additional information may contact dupont by calling 1‑888-476-6827 or by e-mail to zelasticnonwovens@dupont.com novation introduces first product catalog for private label brand, novaplus
fda based its approval on the  company's clinical data in a study of hbv-infected persons undergoing full  liver transplants, which showed a reduction in the virus recurrence rate from  86 percent to about 13 percent.
“this study points to inflammation as definitely having a role in the  (diabetes) story,” said dr. stuart weiss, an endocrinologist at new york  university medical center, and a clinical assistant professor of medicine at  the new york university school of medicine.
one in 10 were  considered to be at high risk of a heart attack or stroke, some of whom also  took low dose aspirin (70 to 100 mg a day).
“the guidance we are issuing today is part of an  overall strategy to ensure quality care by assuring the rapid response to  emergencies for all people with medicare.”
the phenomenon has been increasing since the mid-1990's, coinciding with greater acceptance of the therapeutic benefits of transplantation and with progress in the efficacy of the medicines, immuno-suppressants, used to prevent the body’s rejection of a transplanted organ.
“further evaluation of the biological properties of neuraminidase inhibitor–resistant influenza viruses is needed to fully assess their pathogenicity in humans.”
if all hospitals performed at the level of the  distinguished hospitals for patient safety, the study found: approximately  206,286 patient-safety incidents and 34,393 medicare deaths could have been  avoided; and $1.74 billion could have been saved.
the  ongoing investigation is tracing products distributed since august 2006 by  wilbur-ellis throughout the distribution chain.
nobody knows what the long term effect of using ccr5 antagonists will be.
this study shows that flu is an important trigger of heart attacks  because flu is a severe infection, with high incidence rates and is readily  preventable.”
with cas, hip, knee, and ankle replacement adjustments surgeons can have a perfect alignment rate up to 98 percent.
einhorn says diabetes, like high blood pressure or high cholesterol, is painless and easy to ignore until it has already caused damage.
cdc launches new home page and other web site improvements the centers for disease control and prevention (cdc) unveiled a new look  for the home page and major topic pages of its web site.
at present one american develops alzheimer’s every 72 seconds.
the solution to  this problem lies not in recruiting and training more personnel, but in  reorganizing the critical care system nationwide, according to a report from a  group of critical care stakeholders, led by university of pittsburgh school of  medicine researchers and published in the april issue of the journalcritical  care medicine.
the new study supports a theory proposed last year that statin drugs might  help patients with h5n1 avian influenza, which some studies suggest kills by  causing an immune system overreaction called a cytokine storm.
“this is an exciting piece of work that illustrates why it was so important to sequence the human genome,” said dr. mark walport, director of the wellcome trust.
sturm found that from 2000 to 2005, the proportion of  americans with a bmi of 30 or more increased by 24 percent, the proportion of  people with a bmi of 40 or more increased by 50 percent and the proportion of  americans with a bmi of 50 or more increased by 75 percent.
the department of veterans affairs is today one of the few health systems, and by far the largest, that is virtually paperless.
after 2009, cms will expand the program to additional  areas and items.
john hopkins begins aggressive screening for ‘superbugs’ in children osha, niosh publish bulletin to help protect surgical personnel from needle stick injuries vha rapid response team network saves lives in central atlantic region premier, cardinal health team up to help hospitals identify safer products through use of standardized terminology misusing vitamin to foil drug test may be toxic ‘bird flu’ genome study shows new strains, western spread
this is where the reports generated by budget builder come into play,” said rush.
compliance with cgmp is necessary to ensure that drugs have the requisite safety, identity, strength, quality, and purity.
the plaque  distributes more evenly throughout the blood vessels, slowing blood flow  without creating a flow-stopping kink.
scrushy settles sec civil claims healthsouth corp. founder richard m. scrushy reached an $81 million deal with the securities and exchange commission to settle claims against him related to the massive accounting fraud at the healthcare rehabilitation company, according tothe wall street journal.
the study is published in the early online edition of the journalnature biotechnology.
ccr5 antagonists stop the virus from getting into cells by blocking the main entry point common to most people who have the infection.
these risks did not appear to be significant in the pfizer studies, but according to media reports, the fda reviewers are concerned about modest increases in liver damage.
1,000 extra ovarian cancer deaths due to hrt in uk since 1991
registering profiles that conform to the ehr system functional model is an important step in the widespread adoption of this standard because technically ehr systems conform to profiles rather than the model itself.
“identifying the bacteria and reducing its spread in  hospitals is crucial to improving patient outcomes, and these findings  underscore the need to control these infections.”
the new partnership will focus on total supply spend management and margin enhancement services, including cost reduction, contract evaluation, contract implementation and program coordination at all of the st. theresa facilities.
amerinet signs exclusive agreement with st. theresa medical complex amerinet inc., a national healthcare purchasing organization, announced  that st. theresa medical complex, kenner, la has chosen amerinet to serve as  its sole-source purchasing organization.
both adult patients suffered skin irritation, while both adolescents had potentially life-threatening reactions, including liver toxicity and hypoglycemia (low blood sugar), as well as nausea, vomiting and dizziness.
two of every five women who die are taken by  heart disease or stroke, more than from all forms of cancer combined.
now that there  is convincing evidence that lowering blood pressure can be beneficial after  stroke, fagan is working on a protocol for a human clinical trial that would  identify what patient characteristics predict a good response to blood pressure  lowering.
only around 42% of adults 50 and older have been screened for colorectal cancer in the appropriate time frame.
“in clinical settings where continuous and  reliable monitoring of spontaneous respiration is important, the new  bioacoustic sensor provides significantly greater patient connection time,  which should lead to significantly more reliable monitoring of respiration  rate.”
it advises clinicians to discuss the benefits and harms of screening  with the patient, as well as each woman’s individual cancer risk and  preference about screening.
they found that the chances of dying from ami increased by a third in epidemic weeks, compared to non-epidemic weeks, and the chances of dying from ihd increased by a tenth.
in an accompanying editorial, anne moscona, m.d., of weill medical college of cornell university, new york, and jennifer mckimm-breschkin, ph.d., of molecular and health technologies, parkville, south victoria, australia, comment, “the report by hatakeyama et al raises more questions than it answers, including questions about viral evolution, biological fitness, and transmissibility.
then they help tumour cells get into the bloodstream,  penetrate capillary walls in the lungs, become established, and start  multiplying.
an element of good news in this year’s trustees report involves the  new prescription drug benefit under medicare part d. the latest cost  projections for part d through 2015 are 13 percent lower than estimated in last  year’s report (and substantially lower than the original estimates from  2003).
the combination of the two companies creates the nation’s  fourth largest group purchasing organization (gpo), with more than $13  billion in combined volume.
in addition, this trial is the first to look at the quantity of mrsa in the nares of different patient populations.
women  younger than age 35 who carry a pregnancy to term appear to have a reduced  lifetime risk of breast cancer, according to background information in the  article.
a  study published today has found that mildly elevated levels of cholesterol or  slightly above normal blood pressure from ages 18 to 30 are strong predictors  of having coronary artery calcium at ages 30 to 35.
amerinet announces agreements amerinet inc. announces its agreement for baby products with johnson &  johnson consumer products company, a division of johnson & johnson consumer  companies.
belt, the lilly spokesman,  said in a statement that the company properly marketed zyprexa and disclosed  its side effects to the f.d.a. and doctors.
the data showed the proportion of drug-resistant cases among heterosexuals rising above the recognized threshold of 5 percent for changing treatment recommendations.
the health industry business communications council (hibcc) has  announced the launch of its new rfid resource center.
although the chief executive of west texas hospital defended  its practices, he said it would not appeal the government’s decision.
the report appeared online in theannals of emergency medicine.
“we observed associations in two  subgroups, an association between induced abortion and progesterone  receptor–negative breast cancer [cancer that does not respond to the  hormone progesterone] and an inverse association between spontaneous abortion  before the age of 20 years and breast cancer incidence,” they continue.
the latest members to sign up to utilize accuprice include: columbia memorial hospital, astoria, or; highlands hospital, connellsville, pa; medina general hospital, medina, oh; moses, ludington hospital, ticonderoga, ny; north philadelphia health system, philadelphia, pa; platte valley medical center, brighton, co; samaritan health services, corvallis, or; st. barnabas hospital, bronx, ny; st. joseph’s community health, hillsboro, wi; and virginia mason medical center,seattle, wa. april 24, 2007 human bird flu deaths reported in egypt, cambodia; china, indonesia still not sharing virus samples with who drug company sales visits influenced doctors, study finds neither abortion nor miscarriage associated with breast cancer risk one in four hospital patients is admitted with a mental health or substance abuse disorder scrushy settles sec civil claims ghx develops collaborative contract commitment tool for the healthcare supply chain human bird flu deaths reported in egypt, cambodia; china, indonesia stillnot sharing virus samples with who the world health organization (who) has confirmed two new human cases of the highly pathogenic h5n1 strain of avian influenza in egypt and another case in cambodia, the first to be confirmed in that country in 2007.
although  the company began importing product from china in august 2006, the company did  not become aware of the contamination until april 2007.
in the event this temporary suspension is not quickly resolved, alternative arrangements will be made for customers served by the orlando distribution center, so they will not be inconvenienced.
for example, on behalf of hundreds of hospitals and the communities they serve, the epp program recently secured purchasing agreements with dell and gateway for computers and electronic devices that address significant environmental concerns regarding the manufacturing, use and end-of-life disposal and/or recycling of electronics.
“currently, there is a shortage of employees in the healthcare field.
if a hha does not  submit quality data, the home health market basket percentage increase would be  reduced by 2 percentage points to 0.9 percent for cy 2008.
novaplus was first introduced in 1985 and provides  alliance members with a unique competitive advantage in the supply chain  marketplace.
critics have argued that the doctors have a financial incentive in sending patients to their own facilities, even when those patients might be better off having their surgery in regular hospitals.
only 1 week left to take advantage of special aami membership  offering until april 30,  hospitals that join aami will receive a complimentary  registration to attend aami’s annual conference & expo in boston, ma  from june 16-18 (a $750 value.)
while this study sheds valuable light on the mystery of metastasis, there are still areas that puzzle experts.
china also has been withholding virus samples from infected people since april 2006 for unknown reasons, but its h5n1 case count is up to date at who.
the analysis also indicated that fluoroquinolone resistance is widespread geographically.
a 2-year-old female from menia governorate  developed symptoms april 3 and the next day was admitted to a hospital where  she is in stable condition.
“in clinical settings where continuous and reliable monitoring of spontaneous respiration is important, the new bioacoustic sensor provides significantly greater patient connection time, which should lead to significantly more reliable monitoring of respiration rate.”
symptoms of botulism include general  weakness, dizziness, double vision, trouble with speaking or swallowing,  difficulty in breathing, weakness of other muscles, abdominal distension and  constipation.
“in  our view, the evidence doesn’t support a blanket recommendation for women  in this age group.”
the letter clarifies that the medicare conditions of participation (cops) do not permit a hospital to rely upon 9-1-1 services as a substitute for the hospital’s own ability to provide these services.
the action may impact approximately 1,400 pharmacy customers in florida.
ship counselors will continue to provide enrollment assistance to medicare beneficiaries and offer personalized counseling regarding all of their medicare benefits, including new preventive health screenings and services.
many scientists believe that cancer spread starts after the primary  tumour has reached maturity.
cms analysis of the latest available home health claims data  indicates a significant increase in the observed case-mix since 2000 and that  the case-mix increase is due to changes in coding practices and documentation  rather than to treatment of more resource-intensive patients.
about half of the participants had type 2 diabetes and the other half had normal blood glucose levels.
members of congress and watchdog groups have long called for such a review, noting that conflict-of-interest policies at universities are generally more lenient than those at nih.
included in the rfid resource center: “rfid & hibc:
although some people believe making medical records widely available to many practitioners is a threat to privacy, va officials believe strongly that patient privacy is more secure now than in the era of paper charts.
only a fraction, however, had severe symptoms that could be classified as clinical depression, the researchers said.
some have speculated that it will accelerate the development of new  strains of hiv that use other entry points.
but we have found that this is just not true.”
diagnoses are currently made on the basis of a constellation of symptoms that include sadness, fatigue, insomnia and suicidal thoughts.
fda urgently warns consumers about health risks of potentially  contaminated olives
because budget builder is  web-based, hospitals do not need to purchase new hardware or install new  software.
“these kids are at incredible risk for infection, with thin skins that  provide a poor barrier to infection and immature or severely compromised immune  systems,” said paul sharek, chief clinical patient-safety officer for  lucille packard children’s hospital at stanford university, which has  made reducing catheter-related infections its no. 1 goal for the past two  years.
another potential contribution this study makes is the possibility that these same genes are involved in fuelling metastasis of other cancers, or at least that similar rules are involved.
the measure specifications document and other programmatic information are available at this link.
(the new york times) to read  the full article click here.
dna repair enzymes initially keep oxidative lesions in check, but  over time, increasing numbers of lesions overwhelm the repair systems.
sensatec fall management solution features: free bed & chair alarms;  convenient & flexible program; easy-to-operate alarms; simple “plug  & play” setup; volume/delay control; auto-on/auto-reset feature; low  battery indication; nurse call integration; and protective silicon enclosure.
insurance coverage is a major issue: only  17% of uninsured people have been tested, compared to 44% of those with health  insurance.
that  same year, fda initiated an internal review of its ability to monitor  post-approval studies.
the u.s. food and drug administration (fda) announced the first approval in  the united states of a vaccine for humans against the h5n1 influenza virus,  commonly known as avian or bird flu.
the report appears in the april  13 morbidity and mortality weekly report at this link http://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/.  to learn more about foodnet, see this link
cms proposes payment changes for medicare home health services the centers for medicare & medicaid services (cms) proposed a rule  designed to ensure more appropriate payment for services provided by medicare  home health agencies, while establishing incentives for more efficient care for  medicare beneficiaries.
to validate their findings, the researchers compared their initial results with results from genome scans of 3,000 swedish and finnish participants in the diabetes genetics initiative and 5,000 british participants in the wellcome trust case control consortium, led by peter donnelly, d.phil., oxford university.
in a letter sent to several members of congress on march 23, daniel r. levinson, inspector general for the department of health and human services, said his office is looking into the cases “to determine whether investigation is warranted.”
the next stage, said dr. massagué, is to find women  whose breast cancer relies on these four genes.
because desi findings apply to any unapproved products that are identical, related, or similar to desi-reviewed drugs, today’s notice makes the marketing of any unapproved trimethobenzamide hydrochloride suppository products unlawful.
the action may impact approximately 1,400 pharmacy customers  in florida.
however, virtual colonoscopy with a 6-millimeter polyp diameter threshold was  by far the most cost-effective approach:
the new awards build upon an ongoing program led by st. jude  children’s research hospital in memphis, tn, initiated by niaid after the  1997 hong kong outbreak of highly pathogenic avian influenza in humans.
these totals include all countries except indonesia, which since january has not shared virus samples from infected people with who collaborating centers and does not have a public health laboratory that who has certified to confirm human cases of the h5n1 strain of avian flu.
according to regna, every jani-king  franchise owner and all environmental service staff must receive a healthcare  certificate of completion by jani-king prior to servicing a healthcare account.
“as a nation, we are eating more but doing less exercise, and so the average weight is increasing, but within the population some people seem to put on more weight than others,” explains professor andrew hattersley from the peninsula medical school.
“the f.d.a. continues to explore the concerns raised recently regarding information provided to the f.d.a. on zyprexa’s safety,” dr. mitchell mathis, a deputy director in the psychiatry division of the agency’s center for drug evaluation and research, said.
“lower numbers of shoulder procedures done both regionally and  nationally may indicate that many people live with shoulder pain because they  fear that the corrective surgery is too risky or costs more than similar  procedures.
physicians should also monitor patients with a shelhigh implant for infections and proper device functioning over the expected lifetime of the device.
the food and drug administration is examining whether eli lilly & company provided it with accurate data about the side effects of the antipsychotic drug zyprexa, a potent medicine that has been linked to weight gain and diabetes.
the senior author is lisa bero,  phd, professor of clinical pharmacy and health policy studies at the university  of california, san francisco (ucsf) and an expert on pharmaceutical industry  marketing practices.
the rapid tests generally involve a nasal  or throat swab and can be examined in the doctor’s office.
consequently, surveillance of possible outbreaks across the country is enhanced, doctors said.
john hopkins begins aggressive screening for  ‘superbugs’ in children infection control and critical care experts at the johns hopkins hospital  have ordered testing for the two most common hospital superbugs for every child  admitted to its pediatric intensive care unit.
find out more about the specific benefits a fully implemented  pdu would bring to america's health care providers.
acs report: progress against cancer at risk; early detection, prevention need more attention the united states has made great strides against cancer recently, with overall deaths from the disease declining for 2 years in a row.
physicians were more likely to receive payments if less than 25  percent of their patients were uninsured or covered by medicaid.
“the number of americans over the age of 65 is expected to double by 2030.
they phoned 911, and he was taken to a nearby full-service hospital, where he was pronounced dead a short time later.
“for patients with weakened or susceptible immune systems, there is  nothing more dangerous than increased bio load on healthcare surfaces,”  said mark regna, director of healthcare at jani-king international.
the american college of physicians is the leading professional organization for internal medicine specialists, with a membership of 120,000.
of the participants, 23.9 percent had  diabetes, 68.2 percent had hypertension, 33.9 percent had heart disease and 15  percent had had a stroke.
shelhigh’s violations include: manufacturing products in a facility with a poorly constructed and poorly maintained clean room where sterilized devices are further processed; failing to adequately monitor critical manufacturing environments for possible microbial contamination; failing to properly test products for sterility and fever-causing contaminants; and failing to scientifically support product expiration dates.
there are no precise statistics  on how many of those deaths are infants and children.
critically ill patients, pediatric patients and immuno-compromised patients may be at greatest risk from the use of these devices.
patients on statins also had a lower risk of dying from influenza or pneumonia, the researchers reported monday.
since heart disease is often harder to detect and harder to treat in women, prevention is the key to saving most women's lives.
the researchers currently do not know why people with copies of the fto allele have an increased bmi and rates of obesity.
“to me, the remarkable thing is how effective a very brief visit  by a drug representative, most often less than five minutes, can be in  influencing physicians’ choices to use a drug for an unapproved  indication,” bero said.
the ergonomic 17l5 hd  multi-angle needle guidance system is designed to work in conjunction with  biopsy software on siemens acuson sequoia ultrasound platform to provide  detailed imaging of small parts, breast, and subtle pathologies.
officials have not found the substance in food products for  people but detected it in two imported ingredients widely used in pet food:  wheat gluten and rice protein.
the knowledge of the genetic sequence of this new virus will enable improvements in screening that may enhance the future safety of organ transplantation.
members of congress and  watchdog groups have long called for such a review, noting that  conflict-of-interest policies at universities are generally more lenient than  those at nih.
when that information is inconsistent or delayed, errors can occur that  not only create rework and higher labor costs but also may result in financial  losses for the various parties as the result of inaccurate pricing, rebates and  chargebacks.
hi  expenditure growth is estimated to average 7.2 percent per year over the  next 10 years.
“by the time  she arrived, it was too late,” he said.
several oral capsules and injectable products containing trimethobenzamide have been approved by fda and are not affected by today’s action.
the study found striking differences in the nature of physician-industry relationships depending on the primary practice location of the physician.
based in richardson, tx, xactimed is ranked number one in klas for claims  management in 2006.
“postmenopausal hormone therapy and risk of cardiovascular disease by age and years since menopause,” will be published in the april 4 issue of the journal of the american medical association.
“those taking statins had a 41 in a 1,000 chance of being  hospitalized for sepsis, while the other group not taking statins had a 110 out  of 1,000 risk.
tobacco control and cancer screening are of particular concern, according to cancer prevention and early detection facts & figures 2007 (cped), the annual acs report examining the factors that influence cancer cases and deaths.
vha member carolinas healthcare system, charlotte, nc, helped pilot the budget builder software tool.
there are several profiles under development in addition to  emergency care.
hdacs help genes that have been too tightly packed in the nucleus of cells to express themselves and make proteins.
nearly 78 percent fewer patients went on to have an invasive polyp removal after a virtual screening compared with patients who underwent a regular colonoscopy.
to account for the changes in case-mix that are not related to a home health patient’s actual clinical condition, this rule proposes to reduce the national standardized 60-day episode payment rate by 2.75 percent per year for three years beginning in cy 2008.
with a staff of fewer than 3,000, including support personnel, the agency’s drug division oversees more than 12,000 prescription medicines and 400 nonprescription drugs.
individual countries will negotiate how vaccine is made available to them.
carescience works with hospitals to use comparative data as the basis for implementing clinical quality improvement plans that optimize patient outcomes and operational performance, increase staff efficiency and reduce costs.
“dengue exists more as a continuous spectrum,” dr. wichmann said.
all three  had received organs from the same deceased donor in december, and their closely  spaced deaths suggested their transplants might have exposed them to a deadly  infectious agent.
who can confirm that indonesia has had 81 avian flu cases since 2003 and 63 deaths, but news reports put the total at 94, with 74 deaths.
“i like to call it the ‘i’m-sorry-i-killed-your-mother’ bill,” minicucci said.
registering profiles that conform to the ehr system functional model is an  important step in the widespread adoption of this standard because technically  ehr systems conform to profiles rather than the model itself.
since two of the drugs are already approved for clinical use, this should speed things up.
the new site also complements the safety institute’s free, electronic newsletter, “green link,” that highlights the latest news on “green” healthcare practices and purchasing.
the current report recommends increasing public funding to support a program for research.
by one estimate, they could save american medical care $162 billion a year.
dengue is the most important emerging disease among international travelers, with a 30-fold increase in incidence over the past 50 years worldwide.
since that is the fastest growing group of obese americans,  widely published trends for obesity underestimate the consequences of the  obesity epidemic because illness and service use are much higher among severely  obese individuals.
the intergovernmental panel on climate change, made up of the world’s leading climate scientists, predicted in march that global warming and climate change would cause an upsurge in dengue.
since there’s no specific blockage,  treating micro-vascular coronary disease is much harder.
this needle guidance system is designed to increase the productivity of ultrasound-guided procedures including tissue biopsy, fluid aspirations and catheter placement.
alzheimer’s memory loss may one day be reversible a new us study suggests it may one day be possible to reverse the memory loss associated with alzheimer’s and similar degenerative brain diseases.
however, payments would increase for hospitals serving more severely ill patients and decrease for serving patients who are less severely ill.
the researchers found  that among infants with pertussis for whom the source case could be identified,  parents were the primary source of pertussis in infants, followed by siblings  (16 percent), aunts/uncles (10 percent), friends/cousins (10 percent),  grandparents (6 percent) and part-time caregivers (2 percent).
the final ranking set included 752 teaching hospitals and 857 non-teaching  hospitals.
from the nearly 7,000 records receiving detailed review, 1,530 adverse events, defined as preventable injuries not resulting from patients’ underlying medical condition, were identified.
they were also more likely to  report pain, drinking and psychiatric problems, and chronic problems such as  high blood pressure, high cholesterol and diabetes.
the studies, which were funded by 3m health care, were conducted by lead  investigator dr. gary noskin, associate professor of medicine at the feinberg  school of medicine, northwestern university and associate chief medical officer  at northwestern memorial hospital.
physicians were more likely to receive payments if less than 25 percent of their patients were uninsured or covered by medicaid.
but many experts feel it is no coincidence that a steep drop in infant deaths followed the start of an intensive home-visiting system run by the cary christian center, using local mothers as counselors.
for more information, seethis link.
scrushy neither  admitted or denied the sec’s allegations, and will receive credit for  $71.5 million he has already paid or forfeited in related cases, cutting the  remaining bill to $9.5 million.
as reported on april 22 by fda, the agency determined  that rice protein concentrate imported from china was contaminated with  melamine and melamine-related compounds.
in the most comprehensive look at genetic risk factors for type 2  diabetes to date, a u.s.-finnish team, working in close collaboration with two  other groups, has identified at least four new genetic variants associated with  increased risk of diabetes and confirmed existence of another six.
the authors used  published data to measure medicaid performance in 55 areas.
the teams conducted several experiments, ultimately evaluating the  parietal and occipital regions of the brains of 71 patients, some already  diagnosed with alzheimer’s and some without alzheimer’s.
ships are  intended to serve beneficiaries who want information, counseling, and  assistance beyond what is available through other cms channels, including  1-800-medicare andwww.medicare.gov.
women need to take a  hard look at their risk factors, mieres and goldberg said.
this rebranding process is the first for the independent nonprofit founded in 1968.
the report, which was paid for by drug manufacturer glaxosmithkline, notes that the prevalence of complications is greater in blacks (about 59%) than whites (about 55%), and highest in hispanics (about 68%).
“continued surveillance for the emergence or  spread of neuraminidase inhibitor–resistant influenza viruses is  critically important,” the authors write.
under terms of the  agreement, filed in u.s. district court in birmingham, al, scrushy agreed to  give up $77.5 million in gains and pay a $3.5 million penalty.
“ongoing  research, such as this study, demonstrates that adolescents and adults can  transmit pertussis to infants,” van rie said.
a viral  culture also usually collects a fluid sample that is sent to a laboratory.
diabetes may be associated with increased risk of mild cognitive impairment individuals with diabetes may have a higher risk of developing mild cognitive impairment, a condition that involves difficulties with thinking and learning and may be an intermediate step toward alzheimer’s disease, according to a report in the april issue ofarchives of neurology, one of thejama/archives journals.
fda officials said that they are in discussions with chinese officials about inspecting the plants where the contaminated pet food originated, but that no agreement has been reached.
the procedure will be narrated by steven lyons, m.d.,  surgeon at the florida orthopaedic institute.
milstone says children admitted to hopkins are increasingly  identified as harboring mrsa or vre, with recent reports from the intensive  care unit showing four times as many children with mrsa and twice as many with  vre than five years ago.
but with their medical costs ballooning, top executives of large companies are starting to speak up again, and many are calling for a national approach to fixing healthcare.
that document was not submitted to the agency.
“huntington’s disease is a progressive disease, but nobody knows exactly why,” said mcmurray.
but some members  of congress are now pushing medicare to take a closer look at how such  hospitals are regulated.
in calculating a  final score out of a possible 1,000 points, they weighted issues of eligibility  and reimbursement more heavily than breadth of services and quality of care.
“until now, the studies have been primarily on samples from the  far east.
the women’s socioeconomic status, reproductive history, previous use  of oral contraceptives, body-mass index, alcohol and tobacco consumption did  not appreciably alter the effect of hrt on their risk of developing ovarian  cancer.
the principles put forward by who underscore that the person, whether recipient of an organ or a donor, must be the main concern both as patient and as human being; that commercial exploitation of organs denies equitable access and can be harmful to both donors and recipients; that organ donation from live donors poses numerous health risks which can be avoided by promoting donation from deceased donors; and that quality, safety, efficacy and transparency are essential if society is to reap the benefits transplantation can offer as a therapy.
the rats given candesartan, however, showed the additional benefit of improved function while the rats receiving the other blood pressure medications had less benefit.
without ogg1, the bulk of the  dna’s oxidative lesions remained untouched, and the inserted segment did  not grow at all or it grew far less than in mice carrying a working version of  ogg1.
since  the initial agreement in 2001, the consortium has achieved nearly $6 million in  cost savings through amerinet’s comprehensive portfolio of contracts and  solution-based programs.
the proposal would also provide for additional fees.
the finding complements a study fagan and her colleagues published last  year in the same journal that found similar reductions in brain damage using  the common blood pressure drug, candesartan, a popular drug in the class known  as angiotensin receptor blockers (arbs).
the ongoing investigation and product reconciliation and testing have led to certain farms.
on the other hand, the epca-2 test appears  able to detect cancer even when the tumor is small.
for more information see this link   http://www.rft.com/ april 12, 2007 more states adopt apology shield to protect doctors rheumatoid arthritis drug may help treat type 2 diabetes massachusetts offers details on health coverage medicare provides funding for health insurance counseling in all 50  states scientists stop genes that help breast cancer to spread centers for medicare and medicaid services launches doq-it university mainegeneral health automates business processes with oracle more states adopt apology shield to protect doctors lawmakers in rhode island and eight other states are now considering bills that  would allow physicians to apologize and tell their patients, “i’m  sorry” when things go wrong without having to fear that their words will  be used against them in court.
based on data from national surveys, the report is the first to combine  economic and health data on type 2 diabetes complications, says the  endocrinologists association, which prepared it with the amputee coalition of  america, mended hearts, the national federation of the blind and the national  kidney foundation.
from the  nearly 7,000 records receiving detailed review, 1,530 adverse events, defined  as preventable injuries not resulting from patients’ underlying medical  condition, were identified.
the first learning sessions (modules), available now, focus on physician  office workflow redesign, culture change, and communication necessary for  successful electronic health record (ehr) adoption, implementation of care  management, and the incorporation of a strong patient self-management component  to clinical care.
many  hiv drugs fight the virus from inside infected white blood cells.
genetic analysis showed that virus of the same genotype and subtype was  isolated from both patients, and that the isolates had identical dna sequences  in a sampled region.
companies manufacturing or marketing  trimethobenzamide hydrochloride suppository products must cease shipping them  in interstate commerce by may 9, 2007.
and the same  genes that drive the growth of the primary tumour also help the cells to move  and settle somewhere else.
gros’s group first identified the mutation in mice.
the research  team found that less calcium was able to enter the uterine cells of the obese  women to support uterus muscles in contracting during labor.
mrsa’s resistance to  many antibiotics and potential to cause harm to people with both normal and  compromised immune systems have raised alarm among many healthcare workers.
the olives are made by charlie  brown di rutigliano & figli s.r.l, of bari, italy and are being recalled by  the manufacturer.
many retailers, with large staffs of low-paid, temporary  and part-time workers, would welcome a larger government role.
needle guidance now available for siemens’ new high-density transducer civco medical solutions announces the release of its newest needle guidance system for siemens, the 17l5 hd.
the combination of these two technologies will give hospitals a continuous and noninvasive way to accurately monitor a patient’s oxygenation and ventilation during patient-controlled analgesia, consistent with the new recommendations from the anesthesia patient safety foundation (apsf).
the episode occurred at a small hospital that is owned and run by doctors, one of roughly 140 such hospitals around the country, with nearly two dozen more under development, that are set up to specialize in certain types of procedures like heart surgery, back operations and hip replacements.
(these costs are not what the patient pays, but the average costs for the provider.)
the study found that parents were the source of pertussis, commonly known as whooping cough, in 55 percent of infants.
civco’s  needle guidance systems utilize a two-part system consisting of a custom  reusable biopsy bracket and a disposable snap-on needle guide.
other results from the analyses of the combined trials  include: confirmation that hormone therapy increases the risk of stroke and  this risk does not appear to be influenced by age or time since menopause; even  in women within 10 years of menopause, there appears to be an increased risk of  breast cancer in women taking estrogen with a progestin; there was a trend (not  statistically significant) towards reduced risk for death associated with  hormone use in younger compared to older women.
proponents of the specialty hospitals say the abilene and such cases are aberrations that critics are exploiting to defend the turf of full-service hospitals.
weekly swab testing and bacterial growth cultures were done on nearly 330 patients in the hospital’s pediatric intensive care unit for four months.
a 2003 international expert panel convened by the national  cancer institute reviewed and assessed research regarding reproductive events  and the risk of breast cancer, and concluded that based on existing evidence,  induced abortion is not associated with an increased risk of breast cancer.
“that way, women can increase their  thought process about their risk factors,” said dr. nieca goldberg, a  cardiologist and associate professor of medicine at new york university, and  medical director of the university’s women's heart program.
the team members hope that eventually they or other researchers will  develop a hand-held device that can be used to conduct similar evaluations as  those done by the rowan/penn//drexel group.
this webinar is led by robert  perry, senior consultant, mts, inc., 2006 president of the association for  health care resource & materials management (ahrmm), chair, ches product  data utility provider/idn working group and mike brown, director of purchasing,  university health care system.
this would make the  necessary critical care services readily available to the patients who are most  in need.
to show that the extra segment enlarges with age, the researchers engineered mice to carry a version of the human huntingtin gene with an inserted segment, one large enough to cause huntington’s disease in humans.
the new hospital practice was introduced march 1 after a study conducted at hopkins last year showed that more frequent screening detected many more carriers of the germs before their presence led to infection or the germs spread to others.
under the proposed rule, hospitals would be paid during 2008 based on a blend of one-third list charge-based weights and two-thirds hospital cost-based weights for the drgs.
leveraging peoplesoft’s cross-module validation capabilities, mainegeneral health can integrate and validate data from its materials and accounts payable systems and general ledger and asset systems to improve process efficiency and ensure data accuracy.
“climate change is turning environmental issues into public health issues.”
the product was imported by  wilbur-ellis, an importer and distributor of agricultural products.
however, with a rapid test, where results are in-house and the  process is shorter, the reporting is more accurate.
within the first three months, their code calls dropped by 10  to13 calls.
in a report to congress, hhs secretary michael leavitt announced the  results of an electronic prescribing pilot project that support the adoption of  new electronic prescribing standards.
the seizure follows an fda inspection of the shelhigh manufacturing facility last fall, as well as meetings with the company at which fda warned shelhigh that failure to correct its violations could result in an enforcement action.
according to regna, every jani-king franchise owner and all environmental service staff must receive a healthcare certificate of completion by jani-king prior to servicing a healthcare account.
scientists from the peninsula medical school, exeter, and the university of oxford first identified a genetic link to obesity through a genome-wide study of 2,000 people with type 2 diabetes and 3,000 controls.
but an independent  congressional budget office analysis found that the proposal would not result  in cheaper drugs unless congress modified the program, possibly restricting  access and choice for beneficiaries.
the offer allows facilities to trade in competitors’ systems for the latest technology in bed and chair alarms.
therefore, this therapy may also prevent cardiovascular events.
among many changes, the measure expands the list of people who can consent to an unconscious patient becoming a donor, and makes it clear that a person’s decision to be an organ donor cannot be revoked by anyone else.
by the 15th year, fewer smoked, but 30 percent had  above-normal ldl, 35 percent had elevated blood pressure, and more than  two-thirds were overweight or obese.
“nonalcoholic fatty liver disease hasn’t really been  studied, in part, because investigators can’t get access to  samples,” gerhard said.
states revising organ-donation law; critics fear measure may not go far  enough to protect donors state legislatures are rewriting legislation governing organ donations in  one of the most ambitious initiatives in at least 20 years to alleviate the  chronic shortage of kidneys, livers and other body parts, an effort that some  doctors and ethicists fear tilts too far toward allowing organs to be taken.
new york times: some hospitals call 911 to save their patients should a hospital be able to handle a medical emergency?
this webinar is lead by robert perry, senior consultant, mts, inc, 2006 president of the association for health care resource & materials management (ahrmm), chair, ches product data utility provider / idn working group and frank fernandez, assistant vice president and corporate director of materials management, baptist health south florida, ahrmm member representative, ches board of directors.
whether these viruses  arise by spontaneous mutation or through drug selection, or whether they are  transmitted within families or acquired from the community, the resistant  variants may be here to stay.
sometimes, beta cells, insulin-producing cells, in the pancreas are  destroyed in type 2 diabetes as they are in type 1 diabetes.
in all, household members including siblings, aunts and uncles, cousins and grandparents were responsible for 75 percent of pertussis cases among infants for whom a source could be identified.
the finding could have far-reaching consequences for the diagnosis of depression, the growing use of symptom checklists to identify those who may be depressed, and the $12 billion-a-year u.s. market for antidepressant drugs.
it is one of the largest public health initiatives ever tried by a private philanthropy.
on average, compared with  nonprofit centres, for-profit centres increased epoetin doses 3-fold for  patients with hematocrit levels of less than 33 percent.
(medical news today) centers for medicare and medicaid services launches doq-it university the centers for medicare & medicaid services (cms) announced the national launch of doq-it (doctor’s office quality information technology) university, or doq-it u, to support health information technology (hit) in physicians’ offices.
(washington post) new clorox
symptoms of botulism include general weakness, dizziness, double vision, trouble with speaking or swallowing, difficulty in breathing, weakness of other muscles, abdominal distension and constipation.
looking at x-rays and imaging scans is equally inconvenient and unpredictable, requiring trips to a film library and luck that the right folder can be retrieved.
dr massagué and his team performed two types of experiments.
smoking causes cancers of the lung, larynx, mouth and  throat, esophagus, and bladder, and contributes to several other types of  cancer.
epoetin (marketed as  epogen and procrit) is prescribed to kidney patients as part of their dialysis  treatment, depending on how anemic they are and the level of hemoglobin their  doctor is aiming to get them to.
but non-invasive  screening might up the number of people who decide to undergo screening, he  said.
results for detecting vre, a lesser known but still common superbug,  were six times higher with weekly testing than with routine testing, which  missed 82 percent of those with vre.
then, using bioinformatics  algorithms they had created, the team sorted through the data and identified a  new infectious agent, a virus that was sufficiently different from any known  virus that it could not have been detected using existing diagnostic methods.
the fees currently paid by businesses with $100 million or less in annual sales or receipts would be reduced from 80 percent of the full fee in the first device user fee program to 50 percent for 510(k) applications, and from 38 percent to 25 percent for pre-market approvals and related supplement fees.
its new effort intends to capitalize on and enhance efforts by the food industry and school districts and governments to address the problem, dr. lavizzo-mourey said.
within the class of cephalosporins, cdc now recommends  ceftriaxone, available as an injection, the preferred treatment for all types  of gonorrhea infection.
anywhere hand sanitizing spray helps industry  professionals prevent spread of infection dupont introduces engineered elastic nonwoven technology to offer  stretch capability in a nonwoven fabric novation introduces first product catalog for private label brand,  novaplus amerisourcebergen receives dea order to temporarily halt distribution of controlled substances from orlando facility amerisourcebergen corporation announced that the u.s. drug enforcement  administration (dea) has temporarily suspended the orlando, fl distribution  center’s (dc), license to distribute dea controlled substances and listed  chemicals.
a study published today has found that mildly elevated levels of cholesterol or slightly above normal blood pressure from ages 18 to 30 are strong predictors of having coronary artery calcium at ages 30 to 35.
samolovitch was promoted to amerinet ceo last june as the gpo celebrated its 20th anniversary and was embarking on a new business model that unified its three shareholder organizations under a single national platform.
our current one-size-fits-all approach will soon give way to more individualized strategies based on each person's unique genetic make-up.”
statins linked to lower risk of infection; markedly lower frequency of sepsis in dialysis patients observed researchers at johns hopkins may have discovered an unintended benefit in the drugs millions of americans take to lower their cholesterol:
on friday, march 30, 2007, quovadx, inc. and premier inc. simultaneously  signed a definitive agreement and closed the related transaction wherein  premier purchased all outstanding shares of carescience stock for $34.9  million, or a multiple of approximately 2.3 times carescience's 2006 revenue.
in response, the commission sent states substitute language that calls for family members or others to be consulted in such situations to try to determine what the donor would have wanted.
the most serious cases can lead  to shock and death.
in a study of 4,000 pregnant women, researchers found that almost 1 in 5 overweight women had to undergo an emergency caesarean section birth because the muscles in their uterus failed.
however, biopsies can pose health risks because of the potential for bleeding from the liver or for infection.
alliance members can request catalogs through their novation portfolio executive or access an electronic copy of the catalog through the member portal on marketplace@novation.
at its healthcare business summit in las vegas, april 9-13, medassets announced its commitment to further expand its technologies and services to help healthcare providers improve their overall financial and operational performance.
the medassets president’s award was presented to trae roby of officemax for his strong leadership and delivery of superior value to medassets’ customers.
the combination of the two companies creates the nation’s fourth largest group purchasing organization (gpo), with more than $13 billion in combined volume.
they also address concerns that specialty hospitals may selectively provide such profitable services.
while cautioning that the data are just starting to emerge, researchers  say the findings track with several unhealthy trends, notably the obesity  epidemic.
10 charged in $5 million medicare fraud ten persons were indicted in federal court tuesday, accused of bilking  medicare out of more than $5 million for fraudulent claims for durable medical  equipment and treatments in expensive infusion therapies intended for aids and  hiv patients.
the needle guide directs instruments according to on-screen software guidelines and features a larger tab for improved quick-release function, allowing easy detachment of the needle from the transducer.
the council of supply chain executives announces new member the council of supply chain executives is pleased to announce the  participation of bill mosser.
for more information  on the “go red for women” campaign, seethis link.
two antiviral drugs, zanamivir and oseltamivir, which are a type of drugs known as neuraminidase inhibitors, have been effective against influenza and are used extensively.
gold standard tests administered at world-class research  facilities, such as penn, have a 90-percent accuracy rate.
higher  tobacco taxes, restrictions on smoking in public places, counter-advertising,  and coverage for quit-smoking programs and services are all effective means of  curbing tobacco use.
ccr5  antagonists stop the virus from getting into cells by blocking the main entry  point common to most people who have the infection.
“the body has a tremendous ability to heal itself over time, and we can now see that this includes skin abscesses, at least those that do not include cellulitis.
ultimately, these studies will lay the groundwork for developing  new and improved control measures for emerging and reemerging flu viruses.
effectivemay 1, 2007, through april 30, 2010, this agreement provides cost-saving opportunities to amerinet members on infant hygiene products that include baby wash, powders, lotions, oils and shampoos.
cms worked closely with the  small business administration to establish a new definition of small suppliers  that is reflective of this area of the health care industry.
baby boomers appear to be less healthy than parents
that and the weak biosecurity standards in most rural areas point to human-related movement of live poultry as the source of the introduction of h5n1 in some countries.”
scientific and academic organizations counter that adequate safeguards are already in place and fear that many of the nation’s best scientists would leave the federally funded research enterprise if options for outside income were lost.
new technology, like computer-aided detection, digital mammography, magnetic resonance imaging and ultrasound, can be so sensitive that doctors have trouble deciding which findings are worrisome.
find out more about the specific benefits a fully implemented pdu would bring to america's health care providers.
the equipment is expensive, costing $50,000 to $175,000, but
there is a genetic  risk involved, and family members often share the same lifestyle risks, such as  drinking, smoking or eating unhealthy foods.
in speculating on the results, the team suggested the four genes have to work together to help both tumour growth and spread.
uga study suggests that lowering blood pressure following stroke may reduce damage a new university of georgia study suggests that commonly prescribed drugs used to lower blood pressure may help reduce brain damage when given within 24 hours of a stroke.
nationwide inpatient sample, a database  of hospital inpatient stays that is nationally representative of all  short-term, non-federal hospitals.
under desi, fda evaluated the evidence of  effectiveness for thousands of drug products previously approved for safety  only, including those products marketed under the name of tigan containing  trimethobenzamide.
reports on ‘transplant tourism’ show that it makes up an estimated 10% of global transplantation practices.
the top 15 percent, or 242 hospitals, were identified as distinguished hospitals for patient safety, and represent less than five percent of all u.s. hospitals examined in the study.
cms will review all the public comments and suggestions  received and incorporate them into a final ncd.
in this new study,  they have identified four genes in particular that work together to help cells  from the primary site to settle at a new site and grow.
health officials say china faces a severe shortage of human organs, estimating that out of 1.5 million people who need transplants in china each year, only about 10,000 operations are carried out.
“she died after  experiencing multi-organ failure.”
the advantage of  using a modified eeg to detect these early changes is that it is non-invasive,  simple to do, can be repeated when necessary and can be done in a  physician’s office.
out of the 1,041 patients, there were a total of 303  hospitalizations for sepsis.
an especially tricky one is how to handle unconscious patients who  signed donor cards but also specified that they did not want to kept alive on  life-support.
no physician was working there when the staff first recognized he was  in trouble.
“we (showed) that a 13-week treatment with anakinra improves glucose regulation and insulin production in people with type 2 diabetes,” said one of the study’s authors, dr. marc donath, an attending physician and a professor of endocrinology and diabetes at university hospital zurich in switzerland.
for more information see this link http://www.civco.com/index.
if there is a suspicious spot on a mammogram, women will want to have a biopsy to rule out invasive cancer, said robert a. cascella, the company’s president and chief operating officer.
only the use of hormone-replacement therapy  changed substantially, with the total number of prescriptions for the two most  commonly prescribed forms of hormone-replacement therapy in the u.s., premarin  and prempro, having their steepest declines starting in 2002 and particularly  in 2003 (62 million scripts in 2000, 61 million in 2001, 47 million in 2002, 24  million in 2003, 21 million in 2004, and 18 million in 2005).
in a second transaction sunday, april 1, 2007, quovadx inc. and battery  ventures entered into an agreement wherein battery ventures will acquire 100  percent of the outstanding shares of the common stock of quovadx, inc. for  $136.7 million payable to quovadx stockholders.
finding a replacement that catches fewer healthy  men, but more of those who do have cancer, would help settle at least one of  the clinical conundrums concerning prostate cancer.
ghx develops collaborative contract commitment tool for the healthcare supply chain ghx has extended the functionality of its contract center to include a collaborative contract commitment module that can be utilized by all providers, manufacturers, distributors, and group purchasing organizations (gpos) in the healthcare supply chain.
in  developing the revised clinical trial policy, cms convened the medicare  evidence development and coverage advisory committee (medcac) on december 13,  2006.
“we still think many women will choose to  get mammography, and we're supportive of that,” said owens.
hibcc, an ansi-accredited standards development organization (sdo), will administer the process to formally develop an approved data standard.
after three hours, the suture was removed to simulate the effect of  thrombolytic, or clot-busting, drugs.
studies also show that treating an infection can add nearly $40,000 in additional hospital costs.
april 11, 2007april 11, 2007 medicare proposes revised clinical trial policy diabetes may be associated with increased risk of mild cognitive impairment
sign up for our email newsletter people, places, processes & products that influence the supply chain hpnonline daily update april 30, 2007 amerinet leadership changes hands as ebert takes the helm sterilmed and the scope exchange merge ray taurasi joins healthmark industries cms proposes payment changes for medicare home health services cms issues guidance on hospital emergency services requirements joint update: fda/usda update on tainted animal feed alzheimer’s memory loss may one day be reversible major manufacturer of unapproved and adulterated drugs agrees to stop illegal practices amerinet leadership changes hands as ebert takes the helm todd ebert, president and chief operating officer of amerinet inc., saw his leadership role within the national group purchasing organization expanded even more following the announced resignation today of ceo victor samolovitch.
the  medassets president’s award was presented to trae roby of officemax for  his strong leadership and delivery of superior value to medassets’  customers.
teams can include a variety of other hospital staff members,  physicians, residents, respiratory therapists and pharmacists.
the f.d.a. has never concluded that zyprexa causes diabetes more than other widely used psychiatric drugs, although the american diabetes association has.
but executives at the company whose equipment  was used in the study, hologic, said they interpreted the results differently.
in an accompanying comment, dr. steven narod, of the women’s college research institute, university of toronto, canada, said: “use of hormone replacement has declined dramatically in the uk and elsewhere since the report of the women’s health initiative, and is thought to be responsible for a recent reduction in breast cancer rates recorded in the us.
women weighed down by health care costs, new study finds as cover the uninsured week approaches, a new commonwealth fund report by researchers at the national women’s law center finds that even women with health insurance coverage are more likely than insured men to go without needed healthcare because of costs.
this is because the rule requires all contracting suppliers to be accredited by an approved accreditation organization as meeting cms’ quality standards.
the gathering will bring together representatives from who, countries affected by h5n1, vaccine manufacturers and donors to discuss strategies for vaccine production and access.
“i was pleasantly surprised by the high prevalence of  immunity,” commented dr. redd.
there are currently more  than 40 listings on the web page.
tuesday’s indictment showed what investigators call a typical  pattern, in which medicare patients were given kickbacks to indicate they were  given treatment at the clinics.
as of last year, some 10 states had reported 30 or more cases of the syndrome since 1993, when the virus was identified.
“the  effectiveness of blunt-tip suture needles for preventing needle stick injuries  has been widely reported,” said niosh director john howard, m.d. the shib, available on the osha web site at   http://www.osha.gov/dts/shib/shib032307.html and on the niosh web site at   http://www.cdc.gov/niosh/docs/2007-132/, describes the hazards of sharp-tip  suture needles and presents evidence of the effectiveness of blunt-tip needles  in decreasing injuries.
incorporated in 2002, med1online has become a worldwide distributor  of both new and used medical equipment.
people who claim they cannot  afford coverage under the new system could apply for a waiver.
adverse reactions were similar to other immune globulin products for other indications and included headache and hypertension.
unlike pharmaceuticals, medical and surgical products do not have a standard coding system, and functionally equivalent healthcare products are often difficult and time consuming to identify for cost saving opportunities.
epoetin therapy is the single largest medicare drug expenditure for dialysis-related anemia, accounting for 1.8 billion dollars of expenditure in 2004, said the study authors.
“it’s very concerning that we see such a large proportion of women with ovarian cancer not being treated up to what we would consider a minimal standard for surgery,” said the study’s lead author, dr. barbara a. goff, director of the division of gynecologic oncology at the university of washington, seattle.
but all along, as more and more mammography centers bought the software, the assumption was that the computer would find cancers that radiologists would miss, saving women’s lives.
this dengue spread “is one of the primordial public health problems the country faces,” said mexico’s public health department, which has sent hundreds of workers to the resorts of puerto vallarta, cancun and acapulco to try to avert outbreaks ahead of the easter week vacation.
nih officials had already looked into the 103 cases of possible  conflict of interest in 2004, after a congressional inquiry suggested that  scores of researchers may have taken drug industry money without approval.
this may be especially important in an influenza pandemic when we would expect to see high mortality amongst the elderly and those suffering from heart problems or who have multiple coronary risk factors,” he said.
these process improvements help ensure greater accuracy in both  transactions and reporting related to contract purchases, whether they are  through a gpo or direct with a manufacturer.
if they resume distributing  drugs, the defendants are required to retain an auditor to conduct inspections  of their facilities for a period of five years and to provide reports to fda  analyzing compliance with cgmp and labeling requirements.
10 charged in $5 million medicare fraud10 charged in $5 million medicare fraud ten persons were indicted in federal court tuesday, accused of bilking medicare out of more than $5 million for fraudulent claims for durable medical equipment and treatments in expensive infusion therapies intended for aids and hiv patients.
neurodegenerative diseases of the central nervous system are frequently accompanied by impaired learning and memory, and eventually dementia.
yet only now are people growing more aware  of them, said poland.
as announced on april 26, swine known to have been fed adulterated (contaminated) product will not be approved to enter the food supply.
through this genome-wide study, the researchers identified a strong association between an increase in bmi and a variation, or “allele”, of the gene fto.
and why, when hundreds of tumour cells get into the bloodstream every day, do only a small number of them take up residence in a new site and start multiplying?
contrary to what had been hoped until now, some resistant variants are vigorous pathogens.
the beneficiary’s liability is limited to 20 percent of the payment amount and any unmet part b deductible.
compared with young adults who had below-optimal levels of the risk factors at the start of the study, those with above-optimal levels were one and a half to three times as likely to have coronary artery calcium 15 years later.
the study was published april 22 as an advanced online publication innature and led by cynthia t. mcmurray, ph.d., a professor of pharmacology at the mayo clinic in rochester, mn.
of the nearly 5,000 hospitals studied, the healthgrades study identified 242 hospitals, those in the top five percent of all hospitals, to serve as a benchmark against which other hospitals can be evaluated, naming them distinguished hospitals for patient safety.
research spending on  disability is inadequate.
risks and benefits of estrogen plus  progestin in healthy postmenopausal women…) and the ensuing drop in  hormone-replacement therapy among postmenopausal women.
researchers believe that flu causes an acute and severe inflammation in the  body, which, in some patients, can destabilize atherosclerotic plaques in  coronary arteries and cause heart attacks.
mainegeneral health expects to decrease the time needed to  close its books from 21 days to 10 days.
our findings support this consensus.
the company also offers medicare direct claims processing, accounts receivable collections and denials management with more than 350 hospitals and provider organizations as clients.
to read the original article see this link.
to compile patient care information they reviewed patient charts and  billing records on almost 25,000 patients, selecting 6,841 for comprehensive  review, and analyzed that data against information on hospital workloads and  staffing patterns, with a focus on variations within each hospital.
the recommendation was prompted by new data  released today in cdc’s morbidity and mortality weekly report (mmwr)
spsmedical introduces new catalog spsmedical introduces a redesigned 2007 catalog featuring sterilization products, services and educational programs.
“further evaluation of  the biological properties of neuraminidase inhibitor–resistant influenza  viruses is needed to fully assess their pathogenicity in humans.”
haricomp (which became vector healthsystem), health services corporation of america (which left the gpo four years later and now is part of medassets), hospital shared services of western pennsylvania (which became amerinet central) and intermountain health care.
(miami herald) study suggests some drug resistance to influenza b medications use of certain common antiviral drugs during a recent influenza b epidemic  in japan showed the development of viruses with partial resistance to the  drugs, according to a study in the april 4 issue ofjama.
to further evaluate any  potential harm to humans, the fda is developing and implementing further tests  and risk assessments based on the toxicity of the compounds and how much of the  compounds consumers could be expected to actually consume.
“those doctors who did 2 to 10  ovarian cancer surgeries were significantly better than those who did only  one,” goff noted.
in fact, 33% of insured women and 68% of uninsured women  don’t get the healthcare they need because they can’t afford it.
the hire heroes program was inspired by the experiences of justin callahan, who served as a sergeant in the u.s. army during operation iraqi freedom and is now a corporate event planner for medassets.
the report, “women and health coverage: the affordability gap,” by elizabeth m. patchias and judith g. waxman of the national women’s law center finds that women are at a disadvantage because they have greater healthcare needs and lower incomes than men.
cdc had recommended fluoroquinolones no longer be used to treat gonorrhea in  msm when this threshold was crossed in earlier years.
building on earlier, limited studies that suggested risk reduction in  animals and some people, professor of medicine, director of the welch center  and senior author neil r. powe, m.d., and his johns hopkins team followed 1041  dialysis patients for 10 years, dividing the subjects into those taking statins  and those not.
medicare’s inpatient rates for operating expenses will increase by 3.3 percent in fy 2008 for those hospitals that report quality data to cms.
a 30-year review of the medical literature concerning a common skin  infection reveals that abscesses treated by simple incision and drainage heal  just as well as those treated with incision, drainage and antibiotics.
to the shock of mississippi officials, who in 2004 had seen the infant mortality rate, defined as deaths by the age of 1 year per thousand live births, fall to 9.7, the rate jumped sharply in 2005, to 11.4.
their action items included: pursuing the development of a unique identifier system to identify a device and the information associated with that device throughout its lifetime, mandatory use of electronic reporting for required adverse event reports and revising the center for devices and radiological health's current system of adverse event reporting.
they found that those who  had experienced a variety of stressful events frequently had prolonged periods  in which they reported many symptoms of depression.
however,  when they only silenced the genes individually, the effect was nowhere near as  dramatic.
cms is implementing an  extensive outreach and education plan to assist eligible professionals to  understand the program and the measures and to implement processes to  efficiently capture the quality data that is to be reported under the pqri  program.
the report in the may issue of the journal medical care suggests that efforts to meet two primary challenges facing  hospitals today, reducing costs and improving patient safety, may work against  each other.
in january 2006, fda licensed hepagam b to prevent infection with hbv for the following other purposes: after acute exposure to blood or certain body fluids containing hbv; perinatal exposure of infants to mothers previously exposed to hbv; sexual exposure to persons previously exposed to hbv; and household exposure to persons with acute hbv infection.
in 2006, novaplus’ portfolio of products helped members  realize substantial supply cost savings through novaplus purchases.
utilizing dna purified from blood or cells, researchers quickly survey each participant’s complete set of dna, or genome, for strategically selected markers of genetic variation.
the  proposed rule would also reduce payment for a drg involving the implantation of  a device, when a hospital replaces a device and the replacement is supplied to  the hospital at no or reduced cost.
nearly 78 percent fewer patients went on to have an  invasive polyp removal after a virtual screening compared with patients who  underwent a regular colonoscopy.
different epoetin dosing patterns suggest that large for-profit chain  facilities used larger dose adjustments and targeted higher hematocrit  levels.”
about two-thirds of americans are overweight or obese, and only a fraction  get the exercise needed to help stave off weight gain or lose weight.
they found  that the chances of dying from ami increased by a third in epidemic weeks,  compared to non-epidemic weeks, and the chances of dying from ihd increased by  a tenth.
she knew that our profession was getting more technical with all the advancements in medicine and that we would as technicians have to step up to the plate or be left out.
the manufacturer, sanofi pasteur inc., will not sell the vaccine  commercially.
maraviroc and the placebos were taken in combination with other drugs.
once the desired angle has been selected, a stainless steel pin locks the angle securely into position.
current methods of respiration monitoring, including impedance pneumography with ecg and end-tidal co2 with capnometry, each have limitations that make them unreliable in certain clinical situations.
they add:  “the total incidence of these three cancers in the study population is  63% higher in current users of hrt than never users.
“i don’t think the rise is a fluke, and it’s a disturbing trend, not only in mississippi but throughout the southeast,” said dr. christina glick, a neonatologist in jackson, mi, and past president of the national perinatal association.
modern devices provide  significant health benefits, but experience has shown that the full magnitude  of some potential risks doesn’t always emerge during the mandatory  clinical trials that are required for approval.
vha introduces a new tool to improve capital budgeting efficiency for  hospitals the hospital capital budgeting process is often a time-consuming venture  that requires department managers to conduct their own research, estimate costs  and manually place data into excel spreadsheets to submit to the  hospital’s chief financial officer.
these include standards used to convey structured patient instructions, a terminology to describe clinical drugs, and messages that convey prior authorization information.
through premier’s supply chain advisor electronic product catalog and cardinal health supplyline, a large product comparison and purchasing database, premier members will have a standard set of nomenclature for product attributes to make it easier to search for products that won’t cause allergic reactions or those that are potentially toxic.
cms has included in the final rule a number of provisions that will modify  the rule’s impact on small suppliers.
plan bids for 2007 were 10 percent lower than in 2006, as a result  of intense competition among plans to attract and retain enrollees and  plans’ expectations to further increase use of inexpensive generic drugs,  rather than more costly brand-name equivalents.
“because of the lack of snow cover on russian fields, the country has had an explosion in numbers of virus-carrying mice.”
critically ill patients, pediatric patients and immuno-compromised patients may  be at greatest risk from the use of these devices.
to solve this problem, vha inc., the national health care alliance, and attainia inc., a provider of capital equipment planning systems in healthcare, have co-developed a new web-based software product to simplify and streamline the capital budgeting process.
as a result, the agency shifted responsibility for tracking these studies from its pre-market staff to its post-market staff and set up a new electronic system for them to do so.
the authors conclude: “the effect of hrt on  ovarian cancer should not be viewed in isolation, especially since use of hrt  also affects the risk of breast and endometrial cancer.”
the drug anakinra is an interleukin-1-receptor antagonist,  which means it can block the action of interleukin-1 beta.
the automatic tracking software provides real-time tracking of patients and mobile medical devices using wireless ultra-wideband badges worn by patients and attached to equipment.
the report, developed following a meeting of critical care  stakeholders called the prioritizing the organization and management of  intensive care services (promis) conference held in september 2005, calls for  creation of a tiered, regionalized system for critical care services in an  effort to centralize expertise, equipment and facilities.
st. theresa is a “new” locally owned and operated medical facility  currently under construction.
the system will help the organization improve financial positioning visibility; reduce administrative costs, including payment-processing costs; and improve employee productivity by providing an integrated solution with broad functionality.
“minorities, women who live in low-income  areas, elderly women [over 70] and those who live in rural areas are  significantly less likely to get comprehensive care compared to those women who  don’t meet those [criteria],” according to goff.
virtual colonoscopy also had the added benefit of dramatically reducing the need for unnecessary polyp removal.
scientists have been trying to find ways to reverse the process and  re-establish the ability to learn and remember.
the case was filed in the united states district court for the northern  district of texas.
(washington post) russia sees ill effects of ‘general winter’s’ retreat experts have long feared that earth’s warming climate would cause  tropical diseases such as malaria to spread into more temperate zones, but a  dramatic example of an apparently climate-related disease outbreak cropped up  this winter in a cold place, russia.
the risk for foodborne  illness can also be decreased by choosing in-shell pasteurized eggs, irradiated  ground meat, and high pressure-treated oysters.
the federal register notice which outlines the agency’s order  to manufacturers and distributors, also concludes all outstanding issues for  drugs containing trimethobenzamide, under the drug efficacy study  implementation program (desi).
almost half received treatment from a surgeon who performed fewer than 10 such procedures a year, not the best scenario for a good outcome.
clorox anywhere hand  sanitizing spray is formulated to help kill microorganisms that can cause  illnesses including adenovirus; hepatitis a, b and c; mrsa; norovirus and  rotavirus.
while scientists have long suspected that oxidative lesions  play a role in huntington’s disease, the specific role of the lesions has  remained elusive until now.
john hopkins begins aggressive screening for ‘superbugs’ in children infection control and critical care experts at the johns hopkins hospital have ordered testing for the two most common hospital superbugs for every child admitted to its pediatric intensive care unit.
this “could potentially have value in a  personalized preventive medicine program,” the researchers wrote.
the schedule is as follows: wednesday, april 4, 2 pm - 3 pm eastern, “pdu: what's in it for  hospitals?”
hfrs was last on a rampage in russia in 1997, coinciding with another very warm winter.
they add: “the total incidence of these three cancers in the study population is 63% higher in current users of hrt than never users.
the provider receives a daily e-mail report outlining discrepancies between wholesaler and contract prices.
a central theme of the discussions was who’s concern over increasing cases of commercial exploitation of human materials.
“by  identifying and developing effective indicators of supply chain performance as  well as metrics for evaluating partner performance, ahrmm and asu’s new  tool will lead the way toward consistent, transferable performance  analysis.”
it accounts for one in four cases in mexico, compared  with one in 50 seven years ago, according to mexico’s public health  department.
in a study of 4,000 pregnant women, researchers found that almost 1 in 5  overweight women had to undergo an emergency caesarean section birth because  the muscles in their uterus failed.
being too heavy is clearly linked with many cancers, including cancer of the breast, colon, endometrium, esophagus, and kidney.
ship grants are calculated in two parts.
physicians are unsure how to find it and  when to treat it.
even with no polyp size threshold, virtual colonoscopy still came in at more than 20 percent cheaper.
this is the only known case of patient-to-patient transmission in a dental  setting.
“the risk of mild cognitive impairment attributable to diabetes was  8.8 percent for the whole sample, 8.4 percent for african-american persons, 11  percent for hispanic persons and 4.6 percent for non-hispanic white persons,  reflecting the differences in diabetes prevalence by ethnic group,” the  authors write.
most of the complications could have been avoided with early diagnosis and aggressive treatment, said daniel einhorn of la jolla, ca, an endocrinologists association board member.
fda is currently implementing an ambitious action plan drawn up last year by a post-market device transformation leadership team, a group of experts drawn from both inside and outside of fda.
three key requirements are (a) the capability to appraise the emergency situation, (b) providing initial treatment, and (c) referral when appropriate.
by the 15th year, fewer smoked, but 30 percent had above-normal ldl, 35 percent had elevated blood pressure, and more than two-thirds were overweight or obese.
for more information about orthosoft's navitrack navigation system seethis link.
for example, the us food and drug administration (fda), recommend  the maximum level of blood hemoglobin should be under 12 grams per decilitre  (12 g/dl).
the lifetime financial improvement award, which recognizes the healthcare provider that has documented and signed off on the greatest financial savings over a multi-year relationship with medassets, was presented to st. joseph health system for saving $98 million.
samples from the girl tested positive for h5n1  at the pasteur institute in phnom penh.
consorta will remain an independent organization, serving as  its shareholders’ voice on the healthtrust board of advisors, and on  healthtrust clinical advisory boards to guide product selection.
the system  will help the organization improve financial positioning visibility; reduce  administrative costs, including payment-processing costs; and improve employee  productivity by providing an integrated solution with broad functionality.
the data are drawn from hospitals that  comprise 90 percent of all discharges in the united states and include all  patients, regardless of insurance type, as well as the uninsured.
mcmurray’s team is already  pursuing this path and is screening for small molecules that block ogg1  function.
it’s an exciting new marker,” said martin g. sanda, a urologist at harvard medical school.
the nonprofit national association of children’s hospitals and related institutions, with 208 member hospitals in the u.s. and overseas, is leading an ambitious effort to eradicate bloodstream infections, the most severe infectious threat in pediatric icus.
joint update: fda/usda update on tainted animal feed the u.s. department of agriculture (usda) and the u.s. food and drug administration (fda) continue their investigation of imported rice protein concentrate which has been found to contain melamine and melamine-related compounds.
the proposed rule would also reduce payment for a drg involving the implantation of a device, when a hospital replaces a device and the replacement is supplied to the hospital at no or reduced cost.
it shows that nearly 60% of people  with diabetes have at least one of the complications caused by long-term  failure to control the high blood-sugar levels tied to the disease.
overall dengue  cases have increased by more than 600 percent in mexico since 2001, and worried  officials are sending special teams to tourist resorts to spray pesticides and  remove garbage and standing water where mosquitoes breed ahead of the peak  easter week vacation season.
more money is also needed for cancer screening programs that help people with low incomes or no insurance.
most striking, here and throughout the country, is the large racial disparity.
the plan, if approved thursday, would still need to be presented at public  hearings across the state and face a final vote in june.
the report, “women and health coverage:
poisoning, by overdosing prescription medicines or ingesting a  toxic substance was the most common way patients attempted suicide.
another one is what doctors should do when the family of a dying  person who agreed to be a donor objects to surgeons taking their loved  one’s organs.
the drugs had a similar effect to switching the genes off.
an interactive features area at the top of the new home page  highlights a number of current issues, events and health topics with relevant  photographs or videos.
“the acquisition of carescience further demonstrates premier’s commitment to its long-term goal of reshaping american healthcare in ways that make it the safest, most effective and efficient system in the world,” said susan devore, premier’s chief operating officer.
the rapidity  of the change suggests that clinically occult breast cancers stopped  progressing or even regressed soon after the discontinuation of the therapy.
this disparity exists for both insured and uninsured  women,” said waxman, vice president for health and reproductive rights at  the national women’s law center.
cutter said the largest increase in the ratio has been for those whose ms started at younger ages.
out of more than 200 patients treated for dengue infection at these sites over two years, less than 1 percent fit all four criteria necessary to meet the who definition of dhf.
the winning bids will be used to establish a single medicare payment amount for each item.
speculating on their findings, prof tsai and her colleagues  suggested that perhaps degenerative brain diseases like alzheimer’s do  not wipe out memories, but make them inaccessible in some way.
their study of 36  genomes of the virus collected from wild birds in europe, the middle east and  africa (ema), and vietnam confirms not only that the virus has very recently  spread west from asia, but that two of the new western strains have already  independently combined, or reassorted, to create a new strain.
“for patients with weakened or susceptible immune systems, there is nothing more dangerous than increased bio load on healthcare surfaces,” said mark regna, director of healthcare at jani-king international.
after 13 weeks, the glycated hemoglobin levels were 0.46 percent lower in the group that received anakinra.
unlike pharmaceuticals, medical and surgical products do not have a  standard coding system, and functionally equivalent healthcare products are  often difficult and time consuming to identify for cost saving opportunities.
inaction may lead to diminished quality of life, increased stress on individuals and families, and lost productivity.
“it is more than helping them  out with a job.
as part of the ongoing  investigation, fda has determined the rice protein was used in the production  of pet food and a portion of the pet food was used to produce animal feed.
partly caused by that shortage; quality, safety and efficacy issues related to  transplantation procedures; traceability and accountability of human materials  crossing borders.
medical records and blood tests of 25 patients operated on  after the source patient showed that 16 (64 percent) were vaccinated and immune  to hbv.
(these costs are not what  the patient pays, but the average costs for the provider.)
a clinical study was conducted to collect safety information and  information on recipient’s immune responses and to determine the  appropriate vaccine dose.
they also address concerns that specialty hospitals  may selectively provide such profitable services.
in 1940, the ratio of women to men with ms in the united states was approximately two to one.
advocates for poor people had wanted lower costs for more residents.
in the computer simulation, all of these “patients” (over the age of 50) were screened for colon cancer once every decade for three decades, using either a standard colonoscopy, a flexible sigmoidoscopy, a virtual colonoscopy, or a combination thereof.
medassets continues to remain fully committed to the development of an integrated, end-to-end revenue cycle solution”.
the senate  legislation would have allowed the government to directly negotiate with drug  companies to secure lower prices for medications.
in the most comprehensive look at genetic risk factors for type 2 diabetes to date, a u.s.-finnish team, working in close collaboration with two other groups, has identified at least four new genetic variants associated with increased risk of diabetes and confirmed existence of another six.
base screening mammography  decisions on benefits and harms of screening as well as a woman's preferences  and breast cancer risk profile.
the new study supports a theory proposed last year that statin drugs might help patients with h5n1 avian influenza, which some studies suggest kills by causing an immune system overreaction called a cytokine storm.
all sizes of cans, glass jars and pouches of cerignola, nocerella and castelvetrano type olives are affected.
this is the first analysis of trial data to show an increased risk for ibuprofen, say the authors.
medassets is one of a number of healthcare companies providing funding to  health careers foundation.
until  now, though, prevention efforts have focused largely on adults, and measures  that are known to prevent infection in children aren’t always  consistently used, experts say.
so the australian team turned to  scientists at the greene infectious disease laboratory of the mailman school of  public health of columbia university, who have been developing new techniques  for diagnosing infectious diseases with funds from the national institute of  allergy and infectious diseases (niaid), part of the national institutes of  health.
results from the study, presented april 16 at the annual meeting of the  society of health care epidemiology of america (shea) in baltimore, are  believed among the first to make a case for better screening in efforts to slow  spread of the germs in hospitalized children.
they tried the new test on 30 men with psa readings above 2.5 and in whom biopsies found no cancer.
breast cancer is the second-leading cause of cancer related death among women in the united states; according to the american cancer society, 25 percent of all diagnosed cases are among women younger than age 50.
infirmary in developing custom contracts and in managing various high physician  preference item standardization and utilization efforts.
blood tests indicated that the source patient had had chronic hbv  infection with a high viral load at the time of oral surgery.
by  mid-spring that year, the number of cases reached more than 20,000.
however, they caution that these secondary analyses are based on small  numbers of women.
with new ethics policies in place and the 2008 budget fight starting, many in the agency had hoped that the worst was behind them.
in his view, because of recent clinical trials, dr. coyne thinks the 12 g/dl limit is safer.
the study showed that “premature cannula dislodgement occurred in 14 patients” in less that 20 minutes, while “in no patient was the bioacoustic sensor dislodged before the end of the stay in the pacu.”
while undergoing treatment at walter reed army medical center,  callahan met john bardis, chairman, president and ceo of medassets, by chance  in a hotel lobby.
in the latest work, researchers began by scanning the genomes of  more than 2,300 finnish people who took part in the finland-united states  investigation of niddm genetics (fusion) and finrisk 2002 studies.
patients in the study who had shoulder surgery had far less in-hospital  post-surgical complications (7.5 percent) compared with those patients who had  their hips and knees replaced (15.5 percent and 14.7 percent, respectively).
“government grants for biomedical research in general, including obesity research, are being funded at the lowest levels i’ve seen in my career,” said dr. david ludwig, director of the optimal weight for life clinic at children’s hospital boston and author of a new book, “ending the food fight.”
the deadly hemorrhagic form of dengue fever is increasing dramatically in mexico, and experts predict a surge throughout latin america fueled by climate change, migration and faltering mosquito eradication efforts.
the foodnet data showed there continues to be  little change in the incidence of salmonella cases, and progress made in 2003  and 2004 in reducing the number of cases of with e. coli o157 infections has  been lost.
it was developed over many years by many people, including hundreds of  clinicians.
“these kids are at incredible risk for infection, with thin skins that provide a poor barrier to infection and immature or severely compromised immune systems,” said paul sharek, chief clinical patient-safety officer for lucille packard children’s hospital at stanford university, which has made reducing catheter-related infections its no. 1 goal for the past two years.
“given the  increase in business travel and other travel, and the global spread of dengue  fever, these findings have important implications for the future burden of  severe imported dengue infections,” wichmann said.
it identified 36 out of 40  men who had cancer confined to the prostate gland, and 39 out of 40 men in whom  the tumor had spread.
mild cognitive  impairment-particularly a type known as amnestic mild cognitive impairment,  which affects memory more significantly than non-amnestic mild cognitive  impairment-is increasingly recognized as a transitional state between normal  functioning and alzheimer's disease.
“this program gives guys a chance to start a new life and really opens paths for them,” callahan said.
“it is troubling to learn that infants are  often infected with pertussis by their own family members, who are often  unaware of having pertussis themselves, and in whom pertussis could have been  prevented if they had received a pertussis booster vaccination,” she said.
"we look forward to  creating new and enhanced solutions that will provide hospitals and health  systems greater access to the expertise, clinical research and  knowledge-sharing they need to meet the critical challenges facing healthcare  today.
”studies show that the number of middle ear  infections caused by the pneumococcus serotypes in the vaccine have declined  dramatically, but others have increased by 30 percent,” nuorti said.
alzheimer’s  disease cannot be confirmed until a patient has died and his or her brain has  been examined.
joint update: fda/usda update on tainted animal feed the u.s. department of agriculture (usda) and the u.s. food and drug  administration (fda) continue their investigation of imported rice protein  concentrate which has been found to contain melamine and melamine-related  compounds.
they also observed an increase in oxidative lesions in the mouse dna.
julia ho, of the  agency’s office of international programs, said chinese authorities also  are investigating.
rapid response team  composition varies by hospital, but all teams contain a nurse trained in  critical care.
the manufacturer, sanofi pasteur inc., will not sell the vaccine commercially.
according to the report, about 1.9 million of the 7.6 million stays were for patients who were hospitalized primarily because of a mental health or substance abuse problem.
voluntary donations remain far below demand in china, partly due to cultural biases against organ removal before burial.
for more information see this link http://www.rft.com/ april 12, 2007 rheumatoid arthritis drug may help treat type 2 diabetes medicare provides funding for health insurance counseling in all 50 states centers for medicare and medicaid services launches doq-it university mainegeneral health automates business processes with oracle more states adopt apology shield to protect doctors lawmakers in rhode island and eight other states are now considering bills that would allow physicians to apologize and tell their patients, “i’m sorry” when things go wrong without having to fear that their words will be used against them in court.
for more information on  fda’s post-market action plan consult seethis link.
the study’s lead author, dr. joshua j. fenton of the university of  california, davis, emphasized that women should continue to have mammograms.
the  combination of these two technologies will give hospitals a continuous and  noninvasive way to accurately monitor a patient’s oxygenation and  ventilation during patient-controlled analgesia, consistent with the new  recommendations from the anesthesia patient safety foundation (apsf).
the report shows that the age adjusted incidence rate of breast cancer in women in the united states fell sharply by 6.7% in 2003, as compared with the rate in 2002.
the main causes of infant death in poor southern regions included premature and low-weight births; sudden infant death syndrome, which is linked to parental smoking and unsafe sleeping positions as well as unknown causes; congenital defects; and, among poor black teenage mothers in particular, deaths from accidents and disease.
about  one-third of us cancer deaths are related to excess weight, poor nutrition, and  lack of physical activity, the report notes.
as part of the project,  investigators from the weis center for research, the center for health  research, the center for nutrition and weight management, and the department of  surgery are combing through geisinger’s $80 million electronic health  record to learn why some obese and overweight people develop nonalcoholic fatty  liver disease and similar problems.
contrary to what had been hoped until  now, some resistant variants are vigorous pathogens.
nearly  three-quarters of these patients were between ages 18 and 44 and more than half  were women.
however, the software is now free to anyone who wants to get it through the freedom of information act.
on the other hand, high doses of advil (800 mg three times a day) and voltaren (75 mg twice daily) were associated with rates of heart attack that were 51 percent and 63 percent higher, respectively, than placebo.
gpos can provide manufacturers with data on contract terms and conditions, including tier pricing, definitions, and requirements, as well as which customers are eligible for various contracts.
renewing its mission to research best approaches to improve patient care, nonprofit healthcare research organization today announces its new name: ecri institute.
no  information on clinical data is available because the studies may be ongoing  and include personal and confidential information.
nonalcoholic fatty liver disease starts with the accumulation of fat on the liver, which leads to inflammation and scarring.
three key requirements are (a) the capability to appraise the emergency  situation, (b) providing initial treatment, and (c) referral when appropriate.
as a  result of that investigation, nih director elias a. zerhouni in 2005 banned all  such consulting by nih employees.
accurate reports of physician performance will allow physicians to  effectively assess and improve their performance, and enable consumers and  purchasers to make informed decisions concerning treatments, coverage and the  quality of care.
charlie brown di rutigliano & figli s.r.l, initiated a recall of these olives on march 27, 2007.
although this program helps more than 400,000 women get the mammograms and pap tests they need every year, that’s just 13% of the uninsured and low income women eligible for this lifesaving program.
the temporary suspension affects only the orlando dc and only dea controlled items.
(before the va got its electronic system, only 60 percent of patients’ charts could be found on any given visit.)
the common painkiller, ibuprofen, may boost the likelihood of heart problems in high risk patients who have osteoarthritis, suggests research published ahead of print in theannals of the rheumatic diseases.
some hdacs are already available to help  chemotherapy drugs target dna by opening up the chromatin structure.
people with a bmi of 25 to 29 are considered overweight, while a bmi of 30 or more classifies a person as being obese.
the committee reviewed developments since two previous iom reports on disability (1991, “disability in america” and 1997, “enabling america”), analyzed a number of shortcomings in the nation’s disability policies and programs, and raised serious questions about how individuals and society will cope with the challenges of disability.
while some of these hospitals are large sophisticated operations, like those  hospitals specializing in cardiac care, others are much more modest.
under the proposed rule, hospitals would be paid during 2008 based on a  blend of one-third list charge-based weights and two-thirds hospital cost-based  weights for the drgs.
based in st. louis, with offices in salt lake city, providence, ri, and  warrendale, pa, amerinet serves more than 22,000 acute and non-acute healthcare  providers nationwide.
“even the patient’s personal physician may be reluctant to initiate an evaluation until a considerable degree of brain failure has occurred.
the f.d.a. has questions about a lilly document from february 2000 in which the company found that patients taking zyprexa in clinical trials were three and a half times as likely to develop high blood sugar as those who did not take the drug.
“between 10 and 20%  of people catch flu every year, and i have estimated that we can prevent up to  90,000 coronary deaths a year in the us if every high risk patient received an  annual flu vaccination.”
among patients at facilities that did not regularly  screen for mrsa, prevalence of mrsa was highest in patients admitted from  long-term care (18 percent) and hiv-infected outpatients (17 percent),
“these findings clearly demonstrate the considerable  economic implications of staph aureus infections for hospitals  nationwide,” said dr. gary noskin.
“there are lots of efforts to bridge the growing gap between  demand and supply,” said arthur l. caplan, a university of pennsylvania  bioethicist.
five pilot sites operating in eight states tested initial standards to determine if they were ready for widespread adoption.
congressional critics and consumer advocates said both episodes show  that the agency is incapable of adequately protecting the safety of the food  supply.
whether the rises continue or not, federal officials say, rates have stagnated in the deep south at levels well above the national average.
the deficiencies may compromise the safety and effectiveness of the  products, particularly their sterility.
anakinra was well tolerated by the study participants, and donath and his  colleagues plan on conducting larger, follow-up studies of the medication.
the vaccine was generally well tolerated, with the most common side effects reported as pain at the injection site, headache, general ill feeling and muscle pain.
“this hints at the possibility that cognitive function can be improved even in advanced stages of dementia,” she added.
the first-ever canadian clinical practice guidelines (cpg) on the management and prevention of obesity in adults and children, published april 10, 2007 in the canadian medical association journal (cmaj), recommend that waist circumference be measured in all canadian adults, and that a national surveillance system be developed that incorporates this measurement along with height and weight.
of these, 93 percent involved a mental health  condition, most commonly mood disorders, and/or substance abuse.
for more information see this link.
“while financial and political pressures to make health care more efficient are leading to increased hospital occupancy and greater patient turnover, patients and policymakers are quite rightly demanding that health delivery systems be made safer,” said joel weissman, phd, of the mgh institute of health policy, the report’s lead author.
in  the first six months of the three-year project, 29 participating hospital units  have slashed infection rates by close to 70% by adhering to a rigid set of  measures shown to prevent infection in children, including far more rigorous  care of catheters, higher sterile precautions, and constant assessment of the  need for keeping catheters in place.
amerinet, (its original designation in 1986), comprised four multi-state regional purchasing groups during its debut:
the proposed rule would require a hospital to notify all patients in writing if a doctor of medicine or doctor of osteopathy is not present in the hospital 24 hours a day, seven days per week, and describe how the hospital will meet the medical needs of a patient who develops an emergency condition while no doctor is on site.
learn  about efforts to control supply chain costs and processes in the industry, and  how one hospital is already seeing results.
norton healthcare received medassets net revenue systems customer of the year award, and maricopa integrated health system was recognized as medassets net revenue systems best practice leader.
it allows any authorized person to look at 5.3 million patients’ records, everything from a nurse’s note written during a hospital stay, to the result of a blood test drawn at a clinic visit, to the moving-picture film of a coronary angiogram done in a cardiology lab.
cms also invited comments on whether current requirements for emergency service capabilities in hospitals with and without emergency departments should be strengthened in certain areas, such as the types of clinical personnel that should be present at all times and their competencies; the type of emergency response equipment that should be available; and whether hospital emergency departments should be required to operate 24 hours per day, 7 days per week.
however, virtual colonoscopy with a 6-millimeter polyp diameter threshold was by far the most cost-effective approach:
cass agreed that asking to be referred to a high-volume  center and to be seen by a physician who is a gynecologic oncologist are both  good steps.
emergency medicine to benefit from the hl7’s first registered clinical profile health level seven (hl7), a healthcare it standards development organization, announced the emergency care functional profile (ec fm) as the first registered profile based upon hl7’s ehr system functional model (ehr-s fm) standard.
this new five-year agreement creates a partnership of shared responsibility  to reduce costs and discover new revenue streams.
getting sunburned can increase  the risk of both melanoma and non-melanoma skin cancers.
the new findings are likely to surprise radiologists, said dr. ferris m. hall, a radiology professor at harvard medical school.
by learning as a network through vha and  participating in vha-sponsored educational meetings, using standard data  collection tools and sharing their results, 68 percent of the hospitals  decreased their mortality rates and experienced 256 fewer code blue episodes  (incidents when the patient stops breathing) outside of the intensive care unit  (icu).
skytron products include: portable, fixed and recessed lighting that is ideal for any size and type of health care facility.
for details see this link.
in turnabout, infant deaths climb in south fda was aware of dangers to food; outbreaks were not preventable, officials say medassets’ 2007 healthcare business summit celebrates successes in healthcare antibiotics not necessary to treat most abscesses, even in the presence of mrsa medicaid programs ‘severely challenged,’ report says for decades, mississippi and neighboring states with large black populations and expanses of enduring poverty made steady progress in reducing infant death.
“if the anticipated nih study supports the findings of the last 30 years, this may help stem the tide of antibiotic overuse.
in eight of them, the epca-2 was high, suggesting that the epca-2 test would flag some men who turn out not to have cancer, although probably not as many as the psa test does.
but, in what health experts call an ominous portent, progress has  stalled and in recent years the death rate has risen in mississippi and several  other states.
fda will issue a preliminary public health notification to physicians and other health care professionals and a preliminary advice for patients shortly with more information; those documents will be posted to fda’s web site.
“our work supports the idea that the disease progresses when the extra segment expands over time in non-dividing cells such as nerve cells.”
karin b. michels, sc.d., ph.d., and colleagues at brigham and women’s hospital, harvard medical school and harvard school of public health, boston, examined the association between abortion and breast cancer in 105,716 women who were part of the nurses’ health study ii (nhsii).
however, more than one third are reimbursed for costs associated with  professional meetings or continuing medical education (cme), and more than a  quarter receive honoraria for consulting, lecturing or enrolling patients in  clinical trials, say researchers.
april 27, 2007 amerisourcebergen receives dea order to temporarily halt distribution of controlled substances from orlando facility over time, more women are developing ms than men new prostate cancer test may detect more tumors new clorox
the “live” web cast will originate from tampa general hospital (tampa, fl).
republicans in particular who had been skeptical about the benefit now acknowledge its success and are reluctant to tamper with it.
lower respiratory death risk people who use statin drugs are less likely to die of influenza and chronic bronchitis, according to a study that shows yet another unexpected benefit of the cholesterol-lowering medications.
the next step in the mcgill research will be to investigate other proteins in which vangl1 plays a role, to further pin down its mode of action, gros said.
the discrepancy between  lilly’s initial data and what it later submitted came at a time when  zyprexa’s sales were soaring, even as some doctors and foreign regulatory  agencies were questioning the drug’s safety.
but a review of published  literature last month in the journalpediatric critical care by jana  stockwell, a pediatric critical-care physician at hospital operator  children’s healthcare of atlanta, concluded that infections can strike as  many as 16% of children in pediatric units, a higher rate than in many adult  icus, and increase the risk of death by up to 20%.
in 2004 mgh embarked on a project to define and  develop a safer system for the administration of medication to its patients.
the third annual meeting of the council will be held on november 7-8,  2007 in nashville, tn.
furberg said while the evidence for the non-selective nsaids is somewhat limited, an analysis combining several small studies found that high doses (500 mg twice daily) of aleve were not associated with an increased risk of heart attacks compared to a placebo, or an inactive pill.
for fy 2008, cms is proposing to adopt a high cost outlier threshold of $23,015, down from $24,475 in fy 2007.
“pertussis  immunization of adolescents and adults, especially those in contact with young  infants would not only protect themselves form pertussis, but would also  protect young infants from pertussis and could save lives.”
electronic record systems also bridge one of the more perilous chasms in medicine: the transfer of care when patients leave the hospital.
the psa test casts a net that is too big and too full of holes.
the  company has already agreed to pay $1.2 billion to settle 28,500 lawsuits from  people who contend that they developed diabetes or other diseases after taking  the drug.
the catalog offers information on more than 1,300 products from the industry’s leading manufacturers and features an easy-to-use format with a quick reference glossary.
if dangerous lesions are spotted, a second, more invasive procedure is required.
anywhere hand sanitizing spray helps industry professionals prevent spread of infection dupont introduces engineered elastic nonwoven technology to offer stretch capability in a nonwoven fabric novation introduces first product catalog for private label brand, novaplus
in men, plaque forms on the walls of blood vessels in  specific places, eventually causing a “kink” in the vessel that  stops blood flow.
but, weiss said that while this avenue of research is “worth pursuing, i wouldn’t get my hopes up for a clinical application, especially since the drug appears to lose its effectiveness over time.”
this contract was a result of a competitive  bidding process.
consumers can reduce their risk for foodborne illness by following safe food-handling recommendations and by avoiding the consumption of unpasteurized milk, raw or undercooked oysters, raw or undercooked eggs, raw or undercooked ground beef, and undercooked poultry.
“we are concerned that  we may have been the victim of deliberate and mercenary contamination for the  purpose of making the wheat gluten we purchased appear to have a higher protein  content than it did, because melamine causes a false high result on protein  tests,” miller wrote in an open letter posted on chemnutra’s web  site.
the partnership will also focus on total supply spend management, and margin improvement tools, including cost reduction, contract evaluation and implementation, and education and program coordination at all of the consortium’s facilities.
“global warming has tipped a balance,” said irina gavrilovskaya, a scientist and physician at the state university of new york at stony brook who has conducted research on hfrs at the russian academy of medical sciences in moscow.
antiviral  doses are limited each flu season and prescribing them indiscriminately could  build a resistance to the drugs in the community, doctors say.
to further evaluate any potential harm to humans, the fda is developing and implementing further tests and risk assessments based on the toxicity of the compounds and how much of the compounds consumers could be expected to actually consume.
the announcement was made during the general session of the medassets’ healthcare business summit in las vegas, nv.
but the levinson  letter suggests not.
whether these viruses arise by spontaneous mutation or through drug selection, or whether they are transmitted within families or acquired from the community, the resistant variants may be here to stay.
the proposed rule would also require physician-owned hospitals to require physician owners who are members of the hospital’s medical staff to disclose their ownership to the patients they refer to the hospital.
each listing includes the company’s name, the product’s name, the approval number and date, and describes the study and whether it is meeting its reporting deadlines.
the vaccine was obtained from a human strain and is intended for immunizing  people 18 through 64 years of age who could be at increased risk of exposure to  the h5n1 influenza virus contained in the vaccine.
“among cardiovascular risk factors,  type 2 diabetes mellitus has been consistently related to a higher risk of  alzheimer’s disease,” the authors write.
getzenberg and his colleagues tried it on 35 men with severe “benign prostatic hypertrophy”, enlargement of the prostate that sometimes makes the psa go up but is not cancer.
in an accompanying comment,  dr. steven narod, of the women’s college research institute, university  of toronto, canada, said: “use of hormone replacement has declined  dramatically in the uk and elsewhere since the report of the women’s  health initiative, and is thought to be responsible for a recent reduction in  breast cancer rates recorded in the us.
in addition, cerebrovascular disease-diseases such as stroke that  affect the vessels supplying blood to the brain-is related to both diabetes and  alzheimer's disease.
under the more limited criteria the researchers urged,  that number would be 25 percent lower.
even classic dengue, known as “bonebreak  fever”, can cause severe flu-like symptoms, excruciating joint pain, high  fever, nausea and rashes.
experts estimate that as many as 200,000 of the procedures were performed in 2006.
at the year-15 examination, 10 percent had coronary artery calcium detectable on a ct scan.
such a system would require the most critically ill  patients to be seen in top-level critical care centers.
in some cases, especially with longer laboratory testing  periods, different doctors and nurses may handle the testing process and  reporting the results to public health agencies gets lost in the shuffle,  poland said.
medassets’ current revenue cycle offerings include chargemaster management, charge capture auditing, defensible pricing, denials management, as well as supply item file and chargemaster linkage.
amerinet signs exclusive agreement with ohio valley hospital consortium
the researchers then tested a further 37,000 samples for this gene from bristol, dundee and exeter as well as a number of other regions in the uk and finland.
context plays an important role in deciding when to use the test, said dr. henry bernstein of the children’s hospital at dartmouth in new hampshire and also a member of the american academy of pediatrics’ committee on infectious diseases.
mcfarland says most patients who are candidates for total shoulder replacement surgery are “at the end of their rope” trying to manage chronic pain and disability with drugs.
“non-existent or lax  laws on organ donation and transplantation encourage commercialism and  transplant tourism,” said dr. luc noel, in charge of transplantation at  who.
“if they  can’t recite their cholesterol levels or blood pressure, they need to  schedule a visit with their doctor because that shows those probably  haven’t been checked in a while,” goldberg said.
providence lawyer steven minicucci, who handles malpractice suits,  said displays of compassion are rarely useful in building such cases.
the  rfid resource center can be accessed from the home page of the hibcc web site at this link.
in a secondary analysis, scientists reanalyze previously collected data and findings in an effort to clarify or ask new questions.
i look forward to drawing upon ray’s vast experience as we  continue to expand our efforts in customer education and support.”
only 67 percent of the 10,432 women whose cases were reviewed got the recommended comprehensive surgical procedures.
research shows masimo acoustic respiratory monitoring technology provides “significantly more reliable monitoring of respiration rate” masimo reported that three new independent studies, including one presented the recent international anesthesiology research society (iars) clinical & scientific congress in orlando, concluded that masimo acoustic respiratory monitoring technology (arm) is “at least as accurate as capnometry” and “significantly more reliable” for monitoring respiration in spontaneously breathing patients.
a study published three years ago found that about 12 percent of  men with normal psa readings have cancer.
new  scientific insights will hopefully pave the way for us to explore novel ways of  treating this condition.”
manufacturers would continue to pay fees when they submit applications  for some types of medical device applications, but at a lower rate than under  the current program.
several samples  also contained the mutation associated with the form of the “bird  flu” that caused several human deaths in 2006.
researchers surveyed physicians in six specialties (anesthesiology, cardiology, family practice, general surgery, internal medicine, and pediatrics) to measure the extent of their financial associations with industry and the factors that predict those ties.
this makes it an ideal method to screen elderly individuals for the earliest indication of this common scourge of late life.”
hhs secretary mike leavitt said the report points to the need to  act quickly and efficiently to strengthen and improve medicare, including  enactment of the steps proposed in the president’s budget to address  medicare’s fiscal health.
the meeting endorsed  who’s efforts to link vaccine manufacturers in developed and developing  countries to speed the transfer of technology to manufacture influenza vaccine.
niaid expands capability for influenza research and surveillance the national institute of allergy and infectious diseases (niaid), part of  the national institutes of health (nih), announced it is awarding $23 million  per year for seven years to establish six centers of excellence for influenza  research and surveillance.
home  health agencies (hhas) collect and report outcome and assessment  information set (oasis) data.
for the promis conference, organizers attempted to identify problems in the current u.s. critical care system as seen by all stakeholders, including those from professional organizations, critical care and non-critical care physicians, federal and private health insurers, federal and private funding organizations, and the general public.
statins, which include pfizer inc.’s $10 billion-a-year lipitor, bristol-myers squibb co.’s pravachol and merck and co. inc.’s zocor, are the world’s best-selling drugs, taken by millions to reduce the risk of heart attack.
ahrq found that most patients with mental health and substance abuse  disorders were older.
the ultra-pro ii needle guide now incorporates more flexibility and  advanced features to increase productivity during ultrasound-guided procedures.
pickhardt and his colleagues discussed their findings in the june 1 issue of the journalcancer.
today, about 80 percent of prostate biopsies find no tumor, a percentage that is rising as physicians become more aggressive in searching for the disease.
most people in western countries live with different stages of atherosclerosis  and many will never show any clinical manifestations of the atherosclerosis.
it results, in part, from choices society makes about working conditions, health care, transportation, housing, and other aspects of our environment.
this report reiterates the absence of a comprehensive disability monitoring system and recommends creating one.
because these drugs have not undergone fda approval, their safety and effectiveness have not been established, and fda has not reviewed the adequacy and accuracy of the directions and warnings in their labeling.
she was hospitalized on april 5th.
the report, which was paid for by  drug manufacturer glaxosmithkline, notes that the prevalence of complications  is greater in blacks (about 59%) than whites (about 55%), and highest in  hispanics (about 68%).
older companies, for example, are more likely to welcome government help on  coverage for workers who leave before they are eligible for medicare and may  find they cannot afford insurance.
the center provides  information for the healthcare industry as it considers the emerging role of  radio frequency identification technology, and is accessible to the public from  the organization’s web site.
“the most important thing is that women be well-informed about the decision they're making.”
bird flu has killed at least 170 people since it began  ravaging asian poultry stocks in 2003, hitting indonesia the hardest, according  to the world health organization.
dengue is driven by longer rainy seasons some blame on  climate change, as well as disposable plastic packaging and other trash that  collects water.
learn what one health care  supplier, bd, is doing to lead efforts for the industry to adopt a pdu and how  other suppliers can participate.
the new bleach-free, alcohol-based spray is formulated to kill 99.999 percent of germs on contact and does not dry out hands or leave a sticky, greasy residue.
but from the beginning, there was concern that available health  plans might be too expensive for some people, or, that some affordable plans  might provide skimpy coverage.
when bowen retired, amerinet tapped samolovitch to be ceo and created a new position for ebert, who had served as president.
the study may lead to an earlier diagnosis, and therefore earlier treatment and improved quality of life, for people at the earliest stages of the disease.
available in an easy-to-use spray, this delivery mechanism also helps target  places in the hand that can often be missed by traditional sanitizers, such as  fingernails, knuckles and spaces between fingers.
fda’s new web page includes information on all post-approval device studies ordered by fda since jan. 1, 2005.
shelhigh’s  violations include: manufacturing products in a facility with a poorly  constructed and poorly maintained clean room where sterilized devices are  further processed; failing to adequately monitor critical manufacturing  environments for possible microbial contamination; failing to properly test  products for sterility and fever-causing contaminants; and failing to  scientifically support product expiration dates.
patients who think they may have received a shelhigh  device during surgery should contact their physician for more information.
at the beginning of the study and again every 18 months through 2003, each participant underwent an in-person interview and standard assessment, which included a medical history, physical and neurological examination, and a battery of neurological tests that measured learning, memory, reason and language skills, among others.
new this year is the “healthcare provider only”  meeting taking place on the first day, april 23 at 1:00 p.m.
conference organizers hope  that critical care societies will support a second stakeholder meeting, promis  ii, charged with developing concrete accreditation criteria for the proposed  regionalized tiered system, defining explicit triage and quality surveillance  criteria for each tier, developing a comprehensive set of core competencies for  critical care providers and endorsing a method to train and certify critical  care providers in these competencies.
in january and february, mexico’s dry season, there were 1,589 cases of both types of dengue nationwide, up 380 percent from the same period in 2006, kuri said.
“the greatest  challenge for hospitals today is improving quality of care while safely  reducing costs.
this could disrupt cell membranes and signaling  pathways, including calcium entry.
novaplus was first introduced in 1985 and provides alliance members with a unique competitive advantage in the supply chain marketplace.
levinson also wrote that his office is reviewing whether nih isadequately monitoring potential conflicts of interest among its thousands of grant recipients, typically university researchers.
hire heroes will help to ease this shortage as well as ease the transition from  military to civilian life.”
a “top 20 at  cdc.gov” section allows visitors to quickly view a list of the most  popular health topics, and access each directly from the home page.
the organization’s redesigned public web site offers improved navigation and enhanced content.
“obesity is one of the most challenging problems for public health in the uk.
this immunity protects patients previously exposed to hbv.
in the new study, a team of scientists led by professor henrik clausen from the university of copenhagen in denmark, found a more abundant source of glycosidase enzymes in bacteria.
during russia’s more typically frigid winters, scientists believe, hfrs-causing viruses die off in the consistently below-zero temperatures.
the study’s authors also suppose that statins may work like penicillin, since the first statin was originally derived from a fungus which, it is theorized, secretes a statin as a way to starve other competing microorganisms that require cholesterol to survive.
cms has designated 10 entities as qualified to accredit dme  suppliers, based on quality standards that were posted on the cms website in  august 2006.
“clinicians who mainly focus on bleeding...may miss the most important  conditions that require hospitalization and treatment.”
the most common such events were wound infections  and adverse drug events.
results were compared to  findings of cultures obtained from patients showing possible signs or symptoms  of infection.
his study, he said, “does raise concerns that technology is causing harm without clear benefit.”
cairo’s first human bird flu infection confirmed authorities in egypt have confirmed that a girl, 15, is the first human to  become infected with the bird flu virus in the capital, cairo, the 34th human  to become infected in the country so far.
samolovitch also had been part of amerinet since 1986.
patients who think they may have received a shelhigh device during surgery should contact their physician for more information.
the hypotheses is that hormone withdrawal can rapidly influence the growth of breast cancer is supported by anecdotal reports of regression of breast cancer after discontinuation of hormone replacement therapy.
the nationally available e-learning system is available at no charge.
louisiana and south carolina saw rises in 2004 and have not yet  reported on 2005.
the wave of “i’m sorry” laws is  part of a movement in the medical industry to encourage doctors to promptly and  fully inform patients of errors and, when warranted, to apologize.
)  team, in march 2004.
this disparity exists for both insured and uninsured women,” said waxman, vice president for health and reproductive rights at the national women’s law center.
the foundation plans to invest in programs to improve access to healthy food, encourage the development of safe play spaces, increase research to enhance understanding of obesity and prod governments into adopting policies to address the problem, among other things.
the researchers identified a variant with reduced drug sensitivity  in one (1.4 percent) of the 74 children who had received oseltamivir, and seven  (1.7 percent) of the 422 influenza b viruses isolated from untreated patients  were found to have reduced sensitivity to zanamivir, oseltamivir, or both.
the tracking system will encompass patient flow throughout the surgical staging  units, the operating rooms and post anesthesia care units.
the european regulatory agency has reviewed the same evidence that  the fda considered and reached entirely different conclusions, said furberg.
they also said that it reinforced the value of universal  childhood hbv vaccination, which has been recommended in the u.s. since 1991.
conference organizers hope that critical care societies will support a second stakeholder meeting, promis ii, charged with developing concrete accreditation criteria for the proposed regionalized tiered system, defining explicit triage and quality surveillance criteria for each tier, developing a comprehensive set of core competencies for critical care providers and endorsing a method to train and certify critical care providers in these competencies.
deeming agencies are agencies that can “deem” whether a trial has met the general standards outlined in the policy.
make sure to select the dues level that best fits your department or  facility’s needs.
lilly is  forthcoming with all relevant clinical data on all of our products.”
steve miller, chief executive of chemnutra, a las  vegas-based importer of nutritional and pharmaceutical chemicals, said he  suspects that the contamination was intentional.
jon kingsdale, the executive director of the  authority, the agency set up to administer the plan, said setting the  affordability standards “was always the most difficult and innovative  element” of the state’s groundbreaking healthcare law, passed a  year ago.
if all hospitals performed at the level of the distinguished hospitals for patient safety, the study found: approximately 206,286 patient-safety incidents and 34,393 medicare deaths could have been avoided; and $1.74 billion could have been saved.
the findings will be published later this year in the journalpublic health.
previous studies have suggested that ibuprofen interferes with the effects of aspirin.
leveraging peoplesoft’s cross-module validation capabilities,  mainegeneral health can integrate and validate data from its materials and  accounts payable systems and general ledger and asset systems to improve  process efficiency and ensure data accuracy.
sturm found that from 2000 to 2005, the proportion of americans with a bmi of 30 or more increased by 24 percent, the proportion of people with a bmi of 40 or more increased by 50 percent and the proportion of americans with a bmi of 50 or more increased by 75 percent.
the measure aims to establish more computerized registries of people who have agreed to be donors but makes no similar provision for those who do not want to be donors.
st. theresa is a “new” locally owned and operated medical facility currently under construction.
the proposal would cost the state $13 million more than the $200 million it was planning to spend.
the american cancer society recommends annual tests for women 40 and older.
prior to joining temple, mosser was president and lead consultant for ktm consulting, llc a supply chain and information systems project management consulting firm in bethlehem, pa.
the new competitive bidding program, which is required by the medicare  prescription drug, improvement & modernization act of 2003, will replace  the current payment amounts, for the items being bid, under medicare’s  dmepos fee schedule with payment rates derived from the bidding  process.
insurance coverage is a major issue: only 17% of uninsured people have been tested, compared to 44% of those with health insurance.
the center provides information for the healthcare industry as it considers the emerging role of radio frequency identification technology, and is accessible to the public from the organization’s web site.
suitability for transplantation.
delayed results can lead to mrsa transmission since potential  mrsa carriers are often not isolated from patients without mrsa until these  results are available.
camplylobacter, listeria, shigella and yersinia show a sustained decline in incidence compared to baseline data from 1996-1998, but most of the decrease occurred between 1999 and 2002.
h5n1 influenza vaccine  immunization consists of two intramuscular injections, given approximately one  month apart.
“we are already beginning to implement steps to protect medicare for future generations,” said centers for medicare & medicaid services acting administrator leslie v. norwalk.
the revised  policy will be effective with the publication of the final ncd.
(associated press) severe cases of a common travelers’ infection may not be recognized if doctors rely on the world health organization’s (who) guidelines for identifying it, according to a new study published in the april 15 issue ofthe journal of infectious diseases, now available online.
this “could potentially have value in a personalized preventive medicine program,” the researchers wrote.
long island chapter for central service honors parseghian as  “kathi o’shaughnessy tech of the year” the long island chapter for central service is honored to recognize  charles parseghian as the recipient of the prestigious “kathi  o’shaughnessy tech of the year award”, sponsored by healthmark  industries company inc. o’shaughnessy was one of the leaders of this  chapter for many years and held most all positions on the board of directors.
the programs haven’t been  subjected to a uniform scoring scheme,” said annette b. ramirez de  arellano, a health-policy expert who headed the project.
no evidence of hbv infection was found in any member of the office staff.
the study shows that the new euro-african lineage, which was the cause of fatal human infections in egypt and iraq in 2006, has been introduced at least three times into the ema region and has split into three distinct, independently evolving lineages.
april 2, 2007 premier acquires carescience, strengthening ability of  hospitals to improve quality while safely reducing cost new york times: some hospitals call 911 to save their patients dengue surging in mexico, latin america severe dengue infections may go unrecognized in international travelers universal red blood cells could relieve blood bank shortages conflict-of-interest inquiry may be reopening at nih russia sees ill effects of ‘general winter’s’ retreat ches webinar series focuses on benefits of synchronized product data  across the health care industry
the finding, based on a study using rats and published in  the april issue of thejournal of hypertension, may ultimately  revolutionize emergency stroke care by putting blood pressure-lowering  medications alongside clot-busting drugs and blood thinners as front-line  medications.
the fda visits problem food plants about once a year and the rest far less frequently, brackett said.
the new findings are likely to surprise radiologists, said dr. ferris m.  hall, a radiology professor at harvard medical school.
in addition to non-elective medical admissions for critical illness among chronically ill elders, the growth rate in elective surgical procedures requiring intensive care unit admission, such as bypass surgery, is growing fastest among this age group,” said amber e. barnato, m.d., m.p.h., m.sc., assistant professor, department of medicine, university of pittsburgh school of medicine.
“we labored for over a year testing and analyzing the rubbermaid equipment and recommended procedures.
some suddenly feel very exhausted with minimal activity.
lower-level centers  would not provide ongoing critical care services, but would need to transfer  critically ill patients to higher-level centers.
effective april 1, 2007, through february 28, 2010, this agreement includes patent-pending vendormate vision service which delivers supplier registration, automated policy acceptance, screening, rating, cataloging and physical access control.
(washington post) wsj: pediatric icus make headway against infection
the coalition for healthcare estandards (ches) is launching an educational webinar series focusing on the need for supply chain data synchronization to reduce costs and increase efficiencies in the u.s. health care industry.
when complete, the medical complex will consist  of a 42-bed, long-term acute care hospital, a 55-bed rehab hospital, an  ambulatory surgery center and a diagnostic radiology center.
“the cost of not looking at  context is you think anyone who comes under this diagnosis has a biological  disorder, so should more or less automatically get antidepressant medication,  and everything else is superfluous,” said lead author jerome wakefield, a  new york university researcher.
a ministry statement said  marianna kameel mikhail, who was admitted to hospital in cairo on thursday,  died of respiratory failure on tuesday evening despite being treated with the  antiviral tamiflu and being placed on a respirator.
the hand sanitizing spray contains glycerin, a naturally-occurring moisturizer, to help professionals who wash and sanitize their hands frequently.
april 17, 2007 medassets to expand revenue cycle suite offering with agreement to acquire xactimed fda announces recommendations to reauthorize medical device user fee program geisinger launches extensive study on obesity and related liver problem study shows hope for early diagnosis of alzheimer's fda urgently warns consumers about health risks of potentially contaminated olives spsmedical introduces new catalog rampage strains area hospitals blacksburg, va, april 17 -- four hospitals in this rural area of southwestern virginia were swamped monday after the virginia tech shooting rampage sent more than two dozen victims to emergency rooms, with the first arriving here at a regional medical center about 7:30 a.m.
but the authors say that their findings suggest that ibuprofen interferes with the blood thinning properties of aspirin in patients at high risk of cardiovascular disease.
healthcare cost and utilization project
medicare trustees release annual report the new medicare trustees report shows that while medicare’s  financial outlook remains troubling, the program’s outlook has improved  slightly compared to last year’s estimate.
the principles, part of the paper “developing a fair process through which physicians participating in performance measurement programs can request a reconsideration of their ratings”, also address performance ratings that do not take into account the characteristics of the practice or patient population being treated prior to the release of ratings to the public.
the ongoing investigation is tracing products distributed since august 2006 by wilbur-ellis throughout the distribution chain.
“women’s symptoms can be more subtle,” goldberg said.
distinguished hospitals for patient safety continue to lead the nation in providing safer care…resulting in much lower costs to society.
this study shows that flu is an important trigger of heart attacks because flu is a severe infection, with high incidence rates and is readily preventable.”
they say they are able to handle their patients’ medical emergencies, whether or not they have emergency departments.
a suspected 1,000 extra women in the uk have died from ovarian  cancer between 1991 and 2005 because they were using hormone replacement
if the findings are confirmed by further analysis, the trend could force policymakers to rethink a host of expectations and projections about the nation’s overall medical bill and the future of social security and other retirement programs.
twenty-five percent  smoked cigarettes.
medical devices manufactured by shelhigh include: shelhigh pericardial  patch; shelhigh no-react pericardial patch; shelhigh no-react pneumopledgets;  shelhigh no-react vascupatch; shelhigh no-react tissue repair patch/uropatch;  shelhigh pulmonic valve conduit
“done improperly, and i think a lot get done improperly, the sensitivity falls dramatically,” poland said.
fda officials conceded that the agency’s system needs to be overhauled to meet today’s demands, but contended that the agency could not have done anything to prevent either contamination episode.
for more information about genome-wide association studies, see this link.
the second phase involves development of a data capture and online benchmarking tool for use by practicing supply chain managers.
after 46 percent of the visits, the doctors  expressed the intention to increase either their prescribing of gabapentin or  their recommendations that their colleagues prescribe the drug.
the  rapid response team is especially helpful when new staff needs help, hospital  resources are limited or physicians are unavailable.
the new test is being developed by researchers at johns hopkins hospital and onconome inc., a seattle-based biomedical company.
the second portion is a variable sum based on the percentage of nationwide medicare beneficiaries who live in the state, the proportion of the state’s medicare beneficiaries to the total state population, and the proportion of the state’s medicare beneficiary population who live in rural areas.
to receive sensatec control units at no charge, facilities simply send their  current alarms to rf technologies.
“continued surveillance for the emergence or spread of neuraminidase inhibitor–resistant influenza viruses is critically important,” the authors write.
“if a doctor comes out and says something like that, he shouldn’t  be able to immunize himself against statements like that by couching it in an  apology.”
the authors analyzed a survey form that chronicled 116 visits to  97 physicians by pharmaceutical sales representatives from 1995 to 1999.
“if all countries agree on a common approach, and stop commercial exploitation, then access will be more equitable and we will have fewer health tragedies.”
“among this predominantly pre-menopausal population, neither induced nor spontaneous abortion was associated with the incidence of breast cancer.”
for example, a hospital with a  $10 million overall capital budget can save between $3 million and $3.5 million  by using the cost-cutting information contained in budget builder.”
patients taking arcoxia  suffered worrisome increases in blood pressure.
because of the ongoing controversy, the american college of  physicians’ clinical efficacy assessment subcommittee decided to take its  own look at the evidence related to screening in women in their 40s.
now, with mounting alarm about the high rate of hospital-acquired infections, critical-care specialists are taking new steps to protect the smallest and most vulnerable patients, challenging the prevailing wisdom that infections are simply inevitable in a busy and stressful intensive-care environment.
ships are a key part of medicare’s education and outreach efforts to educate beneficiaries about health insurance coverage, including medigap, medicare advantage options, medicare prescription drug coverage, and long-term care financing.
these injuries potentially expose staff and patients to bloodborne pathogens.
the f.d.a. has questions about a lilly document from  february 2000 in which the company found that patients taking zyprexa in  clinical trials were three and a half times as likely to develop high blood  sugar as those who did not take the drug.
though ebert takes the chief executive reins of amerinet, responsible for  overall leadership of the organization, his professional elevation does not  include the ceo title, which has been shelved.
among middle-aged adults, people with a bmi over 40 are  expected to have health costs that are double those experienced by normal  weight peers, while moderate obesity (a bmi of 30-35) is associated with only a  25 percent increase.
medical devices manufactured by shelhigh include: shelhigh pericardial patch; shelhigh no-react pericardial patch; shelhigh no-react pneumopledgets; shelhigh no-react vascupatch; shelhigh no-react tissue repair patch/uropatch; shelhigh pulmonic valve conduit no-react treated; shelhigh no-react dura shield; shelhigh bioring (annuloplasty ring); shelhigh no-react encuff patch; shelhigh no-react stentless valve conduit; shelhigh internal mammary artery; shelhigh gold perforated patches; shelhigh pre curved aortic patch (open);
taurasi’s healthcare career spans over three decades as an  administrator, educator, technologist and consultant.
the  study suggests that clinically severe obesity, instead of being a rare  pathological condition among genetically vulnerable individuals, is an integral  part of the population’s weight distribution.
“a fair and accurate reconsideration process is yet another way  to minimize unintended consequences that may compromise the care of the  patient,” said acp president lynne m. kirk, md, facp.
for more information call peggy brody of ches at  734-677-3300 or email peggy@chestandards.org or  click here.
the fees are used in concert with the agency’s annual  appropriations to help fda meet its review performance goals, which would speed  more promising products to market than before.
the second annual enterprise president’s award was presented to atlantic health for its improved financial performance achieved through the complete medassets enterprise solution platform including supply chain innovation and other technology solutions.
geisinger launches extensive study on obesity and related liver  problem relying on one of the largest collections of liver  tissue samples ever acquired by a single organization, geisinger health system  researchers have embarked on a massive study of one of the fastest growing  liver problems.
the hopkins researchers measured it in different groups of men whose cancer status was known.
by one estimate, they could save american medical care $162 billion a  year.
rodriguez and arias were also  charged with witness tampering in alleged attempts to bribe persons to get them  to lie to investigators and a grand jury.
the pqri measures apply to services that eligible professionals provide to medicare beneficiaries in their offices and other settings.
adopting registered profiles is one way that cchit ensures a consistent methodology for assessing ehr systems across all healthcare domains.
but, dr. fenton said, they may want to ask if their mammography center uses  computer-aided detection.
the proposed rule would add five new quality measures, which would bring  to 32 the number of measures hospitals would need to report in fy 2008 in order  to qualify for the full market basket update in fy 2009.
o’shaughnessy lost her battle to cancer last october but never gave up her fight.
with routine vaccination against the virus in u.s. dental healthcare personnel over the last two decades, the incidence of hbv infection in this high-risk group has dramatically fallen, and no cases of dentist-to-patient hbv transmission have been reported in the u.s. since 1987.
only those enrollees who were admitted to the hospital with sepsis were counted, in order to rule out any subjects who became septic during an unrelated hospital stay.
it can be present even in the absence of  visible blood.
when investigators at the victorian infectious diseases  reference laboratory in melbourne applied all the standard tests, however, they  could not identify any known pathogen.
“even though we have yet to fully understand the role played by the fto gene in obesity, our findings are a source of great excitement,” said professor mark mccarthy from the university of oxford.
they found two bacterial glycosidase gene families with enzymes that efficiently remove a and b antigens from red blood cells (rbcs).
each state will receive a share of $30 million in grant funds so  state agencies can bring personalized assistance to people with medicare at the  local level.
the clinics and their operators have been difficult for investigators to track down because they often switch names, owners and locations, closing quickly as investigators approach.
researchers from  the children’s hospital of philadelphia and the university of  pennsylvania reported on two adults and two adolescents who suffered toxic side  effects from taking large amounts of niacin, also known as vitamin b3, in  mistaken attempts to foil urine drug tests.
the discovery of a gene that influences the  development of obesity in the general population provides a new tool for  understanding how some people appear to gain weight more easily than others.
however, other research has shown that up  to 85 percent of patients visit their primary care doctors, who these days are  likely to have had little if any role in their hospital care,before a  summary of their last hospitalization arrives.
madjid said: “most people develop atherosclerotic lesions in their  coronary arteries in early childhood and these lesions grow over time.
in addition, 240,000 women hospitalized for childbirth or pregnancy also  had mental health or substance abuse problems.
the idea of “universal red blood  cells” has been around for some time and its feasibility has been  demonstrated in clinical trials.
in light of the recent observation that  oseltamivir may be less effective against influenza b than against influenza a,  an important concern is whether suboptimal dosing for these viruses will lead  to increased selection of viruses with high-level resistance.”
the university scientists worked  with us industry scientists from zymequest in beverly, ma.
“climate change is turning environmental  issues into public health issues.”
researchers analyzed more than 45 million hospital discharge records and found  that from 1998 to 2003 the prevalence of staph aureus infection among  all patients increased at an annual rate of 7.1 percent.
“dupont engineered elastic nonwoven technology is a breakthrough development that enhances our traditional nonwoven media portfolio and provides a cost-effective substrate for high-power elastic sheeting applications,” said matt trerotola, vice president and general manager, dupont nonwovens.
“while it validates our unique model and value-proposition, i'm even more excited about the potential to strengthen our competitive position.
an advisory panel of the u.s. food and drug administration (fda) is meeting this week to decide whether to recommend approval of pfizer’s hiv/aids drug maraviroc for patients already taking other drugs.
the hand sanitizing spray contains glycerin, a naturally-occurring  moisturizer, to help professionals who wash and sanitize their hands  frequently.
“ray will be responsible for working with our eastern region sales  representatives, providing them with training, direction and sales support.
now, health officials are broadening their push to educate more women about their heart risks.
this webinar is led by joe pleasant, cio, premier, inc., chair, ches product data utility organizing committee and dennis black, director of e-business at bd (becton, dickinson and company) thursday, april 26, 1pm - 2pm eastern, “pdu: how hospitals can take the lead” hospital materials managers and financial executives are taking ownership of their supply chain, and adopting best practices to rein in costs.
for the abstract, see this link.
so  far, who has not yet received samples from indonesia.
by 2000, that ratio had grown to approximately four to one.
“these findings show that comprehensive healthcare coverage that doesn’t require high out-of-pocket costs is vital to ensuring that women get the care they need to be healthy,” said sara collins, assistant vice president for the program on the future of health insurance at the commonwealth fund.
the  forms were collected by a market research firm and became available to the  researchers as the result of a lawsuit against parke-davis, the maker of  gabapentin.
the findings, from a survey of 1,662 practicing physicians conducted in  late 2003 and 2004, also show that drug and device manufacturers pick and  choose which doctors to form the strongest ties with.
the agencies are taking certain actions out of an abundance  of caution.
in his view, because of recent clinical trials, dr. coyne thinks  the 12 g/dl limit is safer.
“women are given drugs to thin the blood and take care of symptoms,  as well as reduce cholesterol levels.”
the patient, marianna kameel mikhail,  is from the shubra district, cairo.
“it also solves the problem of hard-to-read handwritten prescriptions.
“because there’s virtually no risk associated with having  such small polyps, 90 percent of folks don’t need an invasive and  expensive colonoscopy to screen for colon cancer,” explained lead  researcher dr. perry j. pickhardt, an associate professor in the school of  medicine and public health and radiologist at the university of wisconsin in  madison.
the care to be delivered is designed specifically for patients who need functional restoration/rehabilitation and medical management services.
deeming agencies are  agencies that can “deem” whether a trial has met the general  standards outlined in the policy.
the cped report says community efforts are needed to  make our environment more conducive to good food and exercise choices.
study questions exam to detect breast cancer
instead, the vaccine has been purchased by the federal government for inclusion within the u.s. strategic national stockpile for distribution by public health officials if needed.
and nobody knows why different cancers spread to particular  tissues, such as why breast cancer travels to lung and bone in particular.
premier data management services has already processed several million new and updated product descriptions received in the past few months from supplyline.
the u.s. food and drug administration (fda) has caused an unnecessary scare about some pain relievers by adding a warning to drugs that are safe, said curt furberg, m.d., ph.d., from wake forest university school of medicine.
the patients were taking part in the therapeutic arthritis research and gastrointestinal event trial (target).
all specialties except anesthesiology appear to be meeting more frequently with industry today as compared to 2000, when the average was about 4.4 meetings per month.
(the new york times) cheaper, easier virtual colonoscopy could boost detection a cutting-edge technology called “virtual colonoscopy” promises fewer complications and better cost-effectiveness than traditional colonoscopy, researchers report.
“this new decision will signal our continued support to provide access to services for beneficiaries by facilitating participation in the full range of qualified, scientifically sound research projects,” said cms acting administrator leslie v. norwalk, esq.
dr. mittal added that there is a report in the medical  literature of a patient who suffered liver failure, requiring a liver  transplant, after taking excessive doses of niacin.
although this program helps more than 400,000 women get the  mammograms and pap tests they need every year, that’s just 13% of the  uninsured and low income women eligible for this lifesaving program.
although the overall absolute risk is relatively small, the  statin group’s risk is dramatically lower,” says rajesh gupta m.d.,  the study’s lead author, who was a senior medical resident at hopkins  when the study was conducted.
niaid  is expanding the surveillance and research program to now include six centers  of excellence for influenza research and surveillance, residing at st. jude  children’s research hospital, memphis, university of california at los  angeles, university of minnesota, minneapolis, emory university, atlanta, mount  sinai school of medicine, new york city and university of rochester, rochester,  ny.
the tainted additive caused a recall of more than 100  different brands of pet food.
for beneficiaries in  the selected cbas, this program will reduce out-of-pocket expenses while  ensuring that they receive high quality items and services.
two years ago, a study of 2,600 patients discharged from university hospitals found that 41 percent had test results pending when they left.
today’s agreement will help hospitals across the nation  meet that challenge.”
(medical news today)
“diabetes  may also be a risk factor for non-amnestic forms of mild cognitive impairment  and cognitive impairment, but our analyses need to be repeated in a larger  sample.”
haricomp (which became vector  healthsystem), health services corporation of america (which left the gpo four  years later and now is part of medassets), hospital shared services of western  pennsylvania (which became amerinet central) and intermountain health care.
through the partnership, ahrmm and asu will develop an online benchmarking and  performance improvement tool using well established research method techniques  that have been successfully applied to improving supply chain performance in  other industries.
further, the solution allows the organization to automate inter-company purchases and allocate expenses to each business, as appropriate.
after discontinuation of hormone replacement therapy.
the principles, acp says, should be considered in tandem with other organizational principles on developing measures; sharing, aggregating, and reporting data; and the ethics of physician performance measurement.
the net impact of all of the proposed refinements and updates in the hh pps proposed rule is an estimated additional $140 million in payments to home health agencies in cy 2008.
"we look forward to creating new and enhanced solutions that will provide hospitals and health systems greater access to the expertise, clinical research and knowledge-sharing they need to meet the critical challenges facing healthcare today.
but  companies are by no means speaking with one voice.
in february, pfizer announced that marketing  authorization applications for maraviroc were receiving accelerated review in  both the us and europe.
the  assessment that, if there were to be harm to human health, it would be very  low, is based on a number of factors, including the dilution of the  contaminating melamine and melamine-related compounds from the original rice  protein concentrate as it moves through the food system.
the doctors who set up the specialized hospitals defend them by saying that by running the centers themselves and concentrating only on certain procedures, they can provide the best results for patients.
“individuals in the earliest stage of alzheimer’s disease are often  not aware of their progressing memory loss, and family members often believe  the changes are simply due to aging,” clark said.
private insurers were billed for the balance.
“our study  suggests that pushing efficiency efforts to their limits could be a  double-edged sword that may jeopardize patient safety.”
on average, for-profit centres gave patients an average  dose of 3,306 units a week more than non-profit dialysis centres.
sturm said  the latest findings challenge a common belief held by physicians that people  who are obese are a fixed proportion of the population and are not affected by  changes in eating and physical activity patterns in the general population.
nachri’s  bloodstream-infection prevention effort is relying on so-called  “bundles” of catheter insertion and maintenance protocols that have  already been shown to save lives and costs.
based on information currently available, fda and usda believe the likelihood of illness after eating pork from swine fed the contaminated product would be very low.
the number of bariatric surgeries increased from an estimated 13,000 in 1998 to more than 100,000 in 2003.
“it suggests that there could be  large cost savings associated with aggressive efforts to prevent patients from  becoming infected with these bacteria.”
many hospital systems, however, balk at the upfront investment, which can  range from “a few million to 50 to 60 million dollars,” said pat  wise, an executive with healthcare information and management systems society.
disease specific modules, starting with diabetes, will  include a patient self-management component, which is critical to successfully  managing patients with chronic disease.
the study is published in nature.
women are also more likely than men to take prescription drugs.
“surgical personnel are at risk of  occupational exposure to bloodborne pathogens from injuries caused by sharp  surgical instruments,” said assistant secretary of labor for osha edwin  g. foulke, jr.
“we were able to show that lowering blood pressure in the 24 hours following a stroke can reduce brain damage.”
the renewed campaign follows an american heart association study, initially done in 1997, that found that only 30 percent of women were aware that heart disease and stroke were their greatest health threats.
the technology is currently  undergoing additional clinical and engineering testing and is expected to be  introduced at alpha sites in late 2007.
as a registered profile, it becomes a  standard that may be referenced by the certification commission for health  information technology (cchit) as a foundation for certification of ehr systems  in the emergency department setting.
according to the  national cancer institute, the systems are now being used in about 30 percent  of mammography centers.
the recommendation for measuring the waist circumference of all adults is  the result of the latest research indicating that fat in the abdominal area is  linked to an increased risk of cardiovascular disease and diabetes.
in a new us study, scientists suggest that large for-profit kidney  dialysis chains in the us give patients more anti-anemia drugs and aim for  higher hemoglobin levels than nonprofit centres.
“an incomplete pregnancy may not result in sufficient differentiation to counter the high levels of pregnancy hormones that may foster proliferation,” the rapid growth and division typical of cancer cells, the authors write.
among new  features on the home page: health and safety information is now grouped in  broad, easy-to-browse topic areas.
the olives should not be eaten alone or in other foods, even if  they do not appear to be spoiled.
amerinet signs exclusive agreement with st. theresa medical complex amerinet inc., a national healthcare purchasing organization, announced that st. theresa medical complex, kenner, la has chosen amerinet to serve as its sole-source purchasing organization.
rhode island hospital study identifies high-risk patient populations for  mrsa carriage
“global warming has tipped a balance,” said irina  gavrilovskaya, a scientist and physician at the state university of new york at  stony brook who has conducted research on hfrs at the russian academy of  medical sciences in moscow.
prior to launch, they experienced up to  25 codes a month.
“we were in constant communication with police, so we knew what was coming.”
study shows hope for early diagnosis of alzheimer's research by faculty and staff at rowan university, glassboro, nj; the  university of pennsylvania school of medicine; and drexel university may lead  to better diagnosis of early-stage alzheimer’s disease.
dr. langston said the state was working to extend prenatal care  and was experimenting with new outreach programs.
the vegetable proteins are used in bread, pizza, baby food and many vegetarian dishes.
however, when they only silenced the genes individually, the effect was nowhere near as dramatic.
the hopkins researchers cautioned that kidney dialysis patients should not necessarily ask their doctors to put them on statins until more studies are done to verify their findings.
medassets continues to remain fully committed to the  development of an integrated, end-to-end revenue cycle solution”.
last month, the authority voted to require all plans to have substantial coverage, including prescription drug benefits, which raised further questions about how expensive the insurance would be.
disease specific modules, starting with diabetes, will include a patient self-management component, which is critical to successfully managing patients with chronic disease.
many hospital systems, however, balk at the upfront investment, which can range from “a few million to 50 to 60 million dollars,” said pat wise, an executive with healthcare information and management systems society.
the study found that daily  injections of anakinra led to a drop in long-term levels of glucose in the  blood, while they increased in people given a placebo.
the  use of these rapid tests has been growing during the past few years and more  than 10 variations of the tests have been approved by the food and drug  administration, the cdc said.
the most controversial section deals with unconscious patients who have signed donor cards but also “living wills” or other documents that state that they do not want a ventilator or other medical care to keep them alive, which is sometimes necessary to maintain organ viability until a transplant can take place.
the products include pediatric heart  valves and conduits, surgical patches, dural patches, annuloplasty rings and  arterial grafts.
such a system would require the most critically ill patients to be seen in top-level critical care centers.
for decades, mississippi and neighboring states with large black  populations and expanses of enduring poverty made steady progress in reducing  infant death.
clorox anywhere hand sanitizing spray is formulated to help kill microorganisms that can cause illnesses including adenovirus; hepatitis a, b and c; mrsa; norovirus and rotavirus.
for example, products that are made without latex, mercury, pvc and dehp will have the new standardized nomenclature to include attributes such as: latex-free for products without latex; dehp-free for products without the plasticizer, dehp (di(2–ethylhexyl) phthalate); mercury-free for products without mercury; and pvc-free for products without polyvinyl chloride.
but an  apology and an admission of error could be key evidence.
inflammation plays a pivotal role in development and growth of these lesions.
when investigators visited the office and monitored its operation they found all staff members followed standard infection control practices.
if the drug and device industry can influence cardiologists, they can likely influence the prescribing practices of other doctors,” said lead researcher and co-author eric campbell, ph.d., an associate professor of medicine at the institute for health policy at massachusetts general hospital and harvard medical school.
although the chief executive of west texas hospital defended its practices, he said it would not appeal the government’s decision.
“we are concerned that we may have been the victim of deliberate and mercenary contamination for the purpose of making the wheat gluten we purchased appear to have a higher protein content than it did, because melamine causes a false high result on protein tests,” miller wrote in an open letter posted on chemnutra’s web site.
democrats needed a 60-vote majority to start debate on the  measure, but lost 55 to 42.
“surgical personnel are at risk of occupational exposure to bloodborne pathogens from injuries caused by sharp surgical instruments,” said assistant secretary of labor for osha edwin g. foulke, jr.
the study is published in the journal of the american medical association (jama).
vaccine helps prevent ear infections a new study found that the pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (pcv7)  moderately lowered the incidence of middle ear infections and reduced the need  for pressure-equalizing ear tubes, a common surgical treatment for recurrent  infections.
we will be investigating this further in future studies.”
the products include pediatric heart valves and conduits, surgical patches, dural patches, annuloplasty rings and arterial grafts.
the decree also allows fda to require recall or shutdown in the event of future violations and provides for damages of $5,000 per day and $1,000 per violation, up to a maximum of $5 million per year, if the defendants fail to comply with its terms.
in men, plaque forms on the walls of blood vessels in specific places, eventually causing a “kink” in the vessel that stops blood flow.
we  estimate 44,000 fewer breast cancers over those two years (2003-04) and  thousands more in the coming decades.”
registering a profile with hl7 gives the  profile credibility and approval that it has met a minimum set of guidelines of  what a profile should contain.
eligible professionals who successfully report data for a designated set of quality measures may earn a bonus payment, subject to a cap, of 1.5 percent of total allowed charges for covered medicare physician fee schedule services provided during the reporting period of july 1, 2007 to december 31, 2007.
newborns who are too young to be fully vaccinated against the disease are  more vulnerable to severe pertussis and face the possibility of serious  complications and even death.
5174 for a no-obligation quote.
to see the “live” procedure on the  internet visit http://www.gettingbackontrack.com and click on the web cast link  on the right side of the home page.
“naproxen does not increase  the risk of heart attacks and ought to be a painkiller of choice,” said  furberg.
depending on the test used and if conducted properly, they register about a 70 percent accuracy rate in diagnosing whether a patient has the flu and are about 90 percent specific in figuring out what type of flu it is, the cdc said.
(the associated press) fda announces that companies must stop marketing suppository  products containing trimethobenzamide as part of the food and drug administration’s (fda) on-going  initiative to ensure that all marketed u.s. drugs have required marketing  approval, the agency announced that companies must stop manufacturing and  distributing unapproved suppository drug products containing trimethobenzamide  hydrochloride.
the 2006 foodnet data indicated that the incidence of infections caused by e. coli o157 and salmonella was similar to 1996-1998 baseline years.
osha, niosh publish bulletin to help protect surgical personnel from needle stick injuries the u.s. department of labor’s occupational safety and health administration (osha) and the national institute for occupational safety and health (niosh) in the u.s. centers for disease control and prevention have jointly published a safety and health information bulletin (shib) designed to help protect surgical personnel from needle stick injuries while using suture needles.
but this was not true of those at high risk.
the committee reviewed  developments since two previous iom reports on disability (1991,  “disability in america” and 1997, “enabling america”),  analyzed a number of shortcomings in the nation’s disability policies and  programs, and raised serious questions about how individuals and society will  cope with the challenges of disability.
he  will also be a vital asset to our customers as they seek clinical support and  education.”
cms analysis of the latest available home health claims data indicates a significant increase in the observed case-mix since 2000 and that the case-mix increase is due to changes in coding practices and documentation rather than to treatment of more resource-intensive patients.
the repackaging operation is  now moving into its operational phase and registering all medications it will  repackage with the state.
in the case of this latest whi analysis, the  authors combined the data from the two trials to explore in more detail the  previously observed trends in hormone effects by distance from the menopause.
in the winter of 2004-2005, an influenza b virus caused a widespread epidemic  in japan, creating an opportunity to assess the effectiveness of neuraminidase  inhibitors.
hospitalized patients have bar  codes on their wristbands that are scanned for an identity check each time a  pill is dispensed or an injection given.
ahrq found that most patients with mental health and substance abuse disorders were older.
“the data from the nhsii provide further evidence of a lack of an important overall association between induced or spontaneous abortions and risk of breast cancer,” the authors conclude.
family members most often source of whooping cough in young infants infants with whooping cough were most likely infected by the people  they live with, according to a multi-country study led by researchers from the  university of north carolina at chapel hill school of public health.
“the plan calls for continued organizational growth,  investment into program development and differentiating amerinet in  the marketplace.
(washington post) $500 million pledged to fight childhood obesity
you will also hear from executives from ascent healthcare solutions, kci, ge healthcare, owens & minor, consorta, medassets, novation and premier.
philanthropy has long fueled improvements in health, from john d. rockefeller, whose money produced a yellow fever vaccine, to bill and melinda gates, who are underwriting new health technologies and vaccines to address a variety of global problems.
in addition, fda would conduct a pilot program under which the agency  would review simultaneously a company's 510(k) and waiver applications under  the clinical laboratory improvement amendments, the law that governs quality  standards for all laboratory testing.
it’s never too soon to think about the risk of cardiac disease.
the hire heroes program was inspired by the  experiences of justin callahan, who served as a sergeant in the u.s. army  during operation iraqi freedom and is now a corporate event planner for  medassets.
reports on ‘transplant tourism’ show that it makes up an  estimated 10% of global transplantation practices.
experts reacting to this study suggest  that changing the way for-profit dialysis centres are reimbursed by medicare  (currently they are paid for doing dialysis and giving the anemia drugs  separately) to a composite system would be a better way to do it and would  remove the incentive that is tied to the drug on its own.
the women’s health initiative and the newly published analyses are funded by the national heart, lung, and blood institute of the national institutes of health.
two of the drugs have already been approved  for clinical use: cetuximab and celecoxib, while the third, gm6001, is still  experimental.
“if they do have above-optimal levels, even slightly,”  she added, “they might want to make lifestyle changes to reduce their  risk.”
taurasi’s healthcare career spans over three decades as an administrator, educator, technologist and consultant.
without ogg1, the bulk of the dna’s oxidative lesions remained untouched, and the inserted segment did not grow at all or it grew far less than in mice carrying a working version of ogg1.
he is also a past president of iahcsmm.
in addition, a nasal cannula was placed, secured with tape, and connected to a capnometer.
we will be investigating this further in  future studies.”
based on the recommendations from the medcac and  the federal panel, cms is proposing to revise its clinical trial policy.
but silicon valley technology companies that  do not have or need retiree coverage are wary of new taxpayer-financed  subsidies.
in the us as well as hospital-based dialysis facilities there are independently owned profit based facilities that claim back expenses for patient treatment, including anti-anemia epoetin, from medicare.
for example, the us food and drug administration (fda), recommend the maximum level of blood hemoglobin should be under 12 grams per decilitre (12 g/dl).
robert wood johnson, who built johnson & johnson into one of the  world’s largest health and medical care products companies, established  his foundation at his death in 1968 with 10,204,377 shares of the  company’s stock.
“in order to perform more uniform surveillance and  research, including vaccine trials, studies are urgently needed to establish  new and more robust definitions for severe dengue.”
each applicant will be qualified and screened to determine career interests, job skills and location preferences.
republicans block medicare drug price bill senate republicans blocked legislation yesterday that would have allowed the federal government to negotiate medicare drug prices, denying democrats a victory on their 2006 election vow to lower prescription costs for senior citizens.
this is estimated to become every 33 seconds by 2050 as 78  million baby boomers began turning 60 last year.
fda urges consumers who are using suppositories containing trimethobenzamide, and who have questions or concerns, to contact their healthcare provider.
the agency said that imported corn gluten, corn  meal, soy protein and rice bran will also be tested.
2,273 women developed ovarian  cancer and 1,591 died from it.
the disease is spread though airborne droplets that are transmitted when an infected person coughs or sneezes.
interestingly, when we took uterus muscle samples from the overweight  women and studied them in the lab they also performed poorly and contracted  less well than matched samples from normal weight women.”
a team from the ministry of  health, who and the pasteur institute there are following up with the  girl’s contacts and conducting awareness-raising activities in the area.
(washington post) to read the original article see this link.
“the trend seems to be that people are not as healthy as they approach retirement as they were in older generations.
5174 for a no-obligation quote.
“the authors don’t really discuss this, but it’s an interesting finding; it’s not what we’d expect.”
mary washington hospital in fredericksburg, va, calls its team the  medical-surgical emergency team (mset).
the findings are from 2006 data  reported to the cdc as part of the agency’s foodborne diseases active  surveillance network (also known as foodnet).
“this is based on the false assumption that all nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs increase the risk of heart attacks.
hepatitis b is a serious disease  caused by a virus that attacks the liver and can cause lifelong infection,  liver cancer, liver failure and death.
in a separate  development, cms issued a proposed rule on april 13, 2007 that would increase  transparency and public disclosure concerning emergency services.
“we have 60,000 to 80,000 facilities that  we’re responsible for in any given year,” brackett said.
said study leader manoj k. mittal, m.d., a fellow in emergency medicine at the children’s hospital of philadelphia.
admission screening is already standard at  hopkins for adults admitted to intensive care units.
if you have questions, contact susan decourcey, vice  president of it and membership services, aami, at sdecourcey@aami.org or  703-525-4890, ext.
in addition, the proposed rule  includes provisions to ensure that medicare no longer pays hospitals for their  additional costs of hospital-acquired conditions (including infections), and  includes an expanded list of publicly reported quality measures.
in total,  ovarian, endometrial and breast cancer account for around 40% of all cancers  diagnosed in uk women.
cms anticipates a small number of additional specification changes, which may expand the applicability of the measures to additional eligible professionals.
an  article appearing online in theannals of emergency medicine finds  that, except in cases where cellulitis is present, abscesses can be treated  successfully without antibiotics, even in an environment heavily contaminated  with methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus (mrsa) (“are antibiotics  necessary after incision and drainage of a cutaneous abscess?”).
the premier safety institute web site has extensive resources on latex  allergies and environmentally preferable purchasing at www.premierinc.com/safety .
the women’s health initiative  and the newly published analyses are funded by the national heart, lung, and  blood institute of the national institutes of health.
individuals earning $30,630 to $50,001 would not be eligible for state subsidies, but they would not be penalized if they could not find health insurance priced at $150 to $300 a month.
their response is crucial because patient survival rates are  directly impacted by how quickly the patient is assessed and treated; swift  clinical intervention decreases patient mortality rates significantly.
public health officials believe the lack of treatment options underscores the  need for accelerated research into new drugs, as well as increased efforts to  monitor for emerging drug resistance, especially to cephalosporins.
among patients at facilities that did not regularly screen for mrsa, prevalence of mrsa was highest in patients admitted from long-term care (18 percent) and hiv-infected outpatients (17 percent), suggesting these patient populations are at especially high risk of mrsa carriage.
they phoned 911, and he was taken to a nearby full-service  hospital, where he was pronounced dead a short time later.
the donor must receive proper medical follow-up but this is often  lacking when he or she is seen as a means to making a profit,” added dr.  noel.
if we  consider people who now have disabilities, people who are likely to develop  disabilities, and people who are or will be affected by the disabilities of  family members and others close to them, then disability will affect the lives  of most americans.
while undergoing treatment at walter reed army medical center, callahan met john bardis, chairman, president and ceo of medassets, by chance in a hotel lobby.
timing is key in treating the flu, said  dr. greg poland of the mayo clinic in rochester, mn.
the authors conclude: “the effect of hrt on ovarian cancer should not be viewed in isolation, especially since use of hrt also affects the risk of breast and endometrial cancer.”
cms is proposing to revise the current drgs so that the system will continue to be based upon a non-proprietary case mix system making it available to the public.
incorporated in 2002, med1online has become a worldwide distributor of both new and used medical equipment.
the hospital would be required to disclose how it  would meet the medical needs of a patient who develops an emergency condition  while no doctor is on site.
four of every 10 of these  patients were between 18 and 24 years of age.
the diagnostic tests also could be a benefit for the public health sector because they make it easier to keep track of test results.
a guideline to implementation,” detailing the  requirements for utilizing the hibc supplier labeling standard with rfid  technology; “understanding rfid in healthcare: benefits, limitations and  recommendations”, a comprehensive and practical guide to rfid technology,  its potential in healthcare and the cost implications of implementation;  articles and announcements from other industries regarding trends in rfid.
inaction may lead to diminished quality  of life, increased stress on individuals and families, and lost productivity.
if you have questions, contact susan decourcey, vice president of it and membership services, aami, at sdecourcey@aami.org or 703-525-4890, ext.
critics have argued that the  doctors have a financial incentive in sending patients to their own facilities,  even when those patients might be better off having their surgery in regular  hospitals.
mdufma ii would  provide industry with predictable and more stable fees because the amount for  each type of fee for each year of the program would be prescribed in the  statute.
the renewed campaign follows an american heart association study,  initially done in 1997, that found that only 30 percent of women were aware  that heart disease and stroke were their greatest health threats.
the new standard is being developed  from work initiated by massachusetts general hospital (mgh), a hospital within  the partners healthcare system.
the costs of staph aureus for invasive cardiovascular stays and invasive neurological stays rose at 12.4 percent a year and 13.5 percent a year, respectively.
the baby boomers were much less likely than their predecessors to describe their health as “excellent” or “very good,” and were more likely to report having difficulty with routine activities, such as walking several blocks or lifting 10 pounds.
by  blocking the ccr5 co-receptor, ccr5 antagonists stop strains of hiv known as  “r5-tropic”, an hiv variant that is common in earlier infection.
drugs containing trimethobenzamide in suppository form lack  evidence of effectiveness.
a liver transplant costs about $370,000 on average,  while bariatric surgery costs $40,000 in pennsylvania, depending on the  negotiated rate with the person’s health plan.
amerinet will continue to negotiate custom contracts  on behalf of ovhc, and make available an array of competitively priced, quality  products and services provided by industry leaders.
the rules issued friday by china’s state council, or cabinet, include a ban on the sale of human organs for profit and on donations by people under 18, according to the text of the regulations published by the communist party newspaper people’s daily.
overall, the programs are “severely challenged,” with the best  scoring the equivalent of a low d and the worst way below an f. “this  evaluation demonstrates a bleak picture for millions of people in many  states,” wrote the authors of the 143-page evaluation, produced by public  citizen’s health research group.
“these findings show that comprehensive healthcare coverage that  doesn’t require high out-of-pocket costs is vital to ensuring that women  get the care they need to be healthy,” said sara collins, assistant vice  president for the program on the future of health insurance at the commonwealth  fund.
according to the complaint filed with the court, pharmafab did not  comply with cgmp by not investigating manufacturing failures and not recording  and justifying why it deviated from written manufacturing procedures.
“no obvious mechanisms can be provided for these  subgroup findings; thus, chance has to be considered as a possible  explanation.”
the  results appear in the april 2007 issue of thepediatric infectious disease  journal.
it is the virus’s ability to rapidly mutate into a pathogen that may eventually be passed between humans that concerns health officials about a worldwide pandemic of h5n1 influenza.
in order to examine their hypothesis that increased workload could raise the likelihood of adverse events, the investigators examined data from four hospitals in two states, two large urban teaching hospitals and two suburban teaching hospitals, over the 12 months from october 2000 through september 2001.
some people prefer the colonoscopy route compared to virtual colonoscopy, and that’s fine.”
the dea asserts that amerisourcebergen did not maintain effective controls against diversion of controlled substances, specifically hydrocodone, to four internet pharmacies from january 1, 2006 through january 31, 2007.
the proposed  rule adds two national quality forum-endorsed measures to the 10 that are  currently reported: emergent care for wound infections - deteriorating wound  status; and improvement in status of surgical wound.
the tracking system will encompass patient flow throughout the surgical staging units, the operating rooms and post anesthesia care units.
this rule also proposes to modify the low utilization payment adjustment  (lupa) and to eliminate the significant change in condition payment  adjustment.
additional features, such as surveys, utilization  tracking, and continuing medical education/continuing education unit (cme/ceu)  offering/issuing capabilities will also be included in the near future.
rep. john d. dingell (d-mi), chairman of the full house committee is considering introducing legislation to boost the agency’s accountability, regulatory authority and budget.
the associated genetic variations can serve as a strong pointer to the region of the genome where the genetic risk factor resides.
cas, such as with orthosoft navitrack(r) navigation systems, provides surgeons immediate instrument alignment and implant placement feedback.
cancer screening tests can find the disease  at its earliest stage, when treatments are more likely to be successful.
for  more informationclick here.
the blood-borne pathogen is hardy, persisting in dried blood on surfaces for a week or more.
the baby boomers were much less likely than their predecessors  to describe their health as “excellent” or “very good,”  and were more likely to report having difficulty with routine activities, such  as walking several blocks or lifting 10 pounds.
“our work supports the idea that the  disease progresses when the extra segment expands over time in non-dividing  cells such as nerve cells.”
for a complete list of state  health insurance counseling programs, seethis link.
he is also a past  president of iahcsmm.
doctors also worried about lawsuits if they were not using it and missed a cancer.
in addition to locating and tracking operating room resources, the  software translates interactions between patients, medical staff and equipment  into time-stamped stages of a patient’s course of treatment.
hospitals have the most to gain from an efficient supply chain, reduced  rework, fewer errors, reduced costs and improved patient safety, to name a few  advantages.
hl7’s  emergency care special interest group (sig) developed the emergency care  functional profile for emergency department information systems to develop an  open and objective standard for the development, refinement, and evaluation of  information systems employed in the ed.
effective contract management requires that all authorized parties to a  contract share accurate information related to factors such as tier pricing and  commitments, customer eligibility, and effective contract dates in a timely  manner.
the overall jump in mississippi meant that 65 more babies died in 2005 than in the previous year, for a total of 481.
rep. john d. dingell (d-mi), chairman of  the full house committee is considering introducing legislation to boost the  agency’s accountability, regulatory authority and budget.
“our findings suggest a possible answer to  someone who might ask ‘i eat the same and do as much exercise as my  friend next door, so why am i fatter?’
based on this, it recommended that clinicians: periodically perform  individualized assessment of risk for breast cancer to help guide decisions  about screening mammography; inform women ages 40 to 49 of the potential  benefits and harms of screening mammography;
“the problem we were facing was buying equipment sporadically and not  knowing who and where and when they were being bought.
in most cases, said william w. vodra, senior  counsel at the law firm of arnold & porter and a former f.d.a. associate  chief counsel, it does not perform detailed audits of clinical trials or  independently check the integrity of the data that companies send to it.
the company has already agreed to pay $1.2 billion to settle 28,500 lawsuits from people who contend that they developed diabetes or other diseases after taking the drug.
this contract was a result of a competitive bidding process.
the peaks in deaths from both ami  and ihd coincided with the times when influenza epidemics and acute respiratory  disease (ard), which often accompanies flu, were at their height.
the top 15 percent, or 242 hospitals, were identified as  distinguished hospitals for patient safety, and represent less than five  percent of all u.s. hospitals examined in the study.
but do not expect this scourge of  childhood, which affects more than 80 percent of children under age three and  costs $5 billion to treat each year, to go the way of whooping cough anytime  soon.
a guideline to implementation,” detailing the requirements for utilizing the hibc supplier labeling standard with rfid technology; “understanding rfid in healthcare: benefits, limitations and recommendations”, a comprehensive and practical guide to rfid technology, its potential in healthcare and the cost implications of implementation; articles and announcements from other industries regarding trends in rfid.
“we hope that our  study will alert emergency medicine physicians and other healthcare providers  to this hazardous practice,” said dr. mittal.
generally, companies must submit interim post-approval study  status reports every six months for the first two years of the study and  annually thereafter until the final report has been submitted.
“there is a huge cost to denial of this disease,” he said.
gupta says it remains unclear why or how statins work this way, “but the consistency of the findings with laboratory studies adds a lot of credence to the idea that statins are doing something substantial to reduce risk.”
medassets supply chain systems also presented awards to gpo suppliers who work with healthcare providers to help them realize greater cost efficiency.
“with mammography, we have multiple studies showing what happens to mortality rates if you get this versus if you don’t,” dr. fletcher said.
the  nationally available e-learning system is available at no charge.
our  findings support this consensus.
it can progress  to the point of permanent liver damage and lead to the potentially fatal  cirrhosis.
rf technologies offers free sensatec bed and chair alarms as part of trade-in program healthcare facilities can trade in outdated, unreliable bed and chair alarms and receive a free upgrade to rf technologies’ sensatec fall management alarms.
but this winter has been anything but cold.
the first learning sessions (modules), available now, focus on physician office workflow redesign, culture change, and communication necessary for successful electronic health record (ehr) adoption, implementation of care management, and the incorporation of a strong patient self-management component to clinical care.
in an accompanying editorial, anne moscona, m.d., of weill medical college  of cornell university, new york, and jennifer mckimm-breschkin, ph.d., of  molecular and health technologies, parkville, south victoria, australia,  comment, “the report by hatakeyama et al raises more questions than it  answers, including questions about viral evolution, biological fitness, and  transmissibility.
mosser serves the temple university health  system, as managing director supply chain services.
other  factors contribute to this gender gap in healthcare coverage and access: women  are slightly more likely than men to purchase coverage in the individual  insurance market which is often more expensive and less comprehensive than  employer coverage.
it also emphasizes osha’s requirement to use appropriate, available and effective safer medical devices.
however, only about 60% of people in the us who ought to  have a flu shot actually have one and this percentage is even smaller in  europe, said professor mohammad madjid, the lead author of the report.
for more information click here  http://www.cdc.gov/std/gonorrhea/arg/ major genetic study identifies clearest link yet to obesity risk scientists have identified the most clear genetic link yet to obesity in  the general population as part of a major study of diseases funded by the  wellcome trust, the uk’s largest medical research charity.
for taxpayers, the competitive bidding program  means potentially significant savings for medicare.
lehigh valley hospital and health network selects patient care  technology systems’ automatic or tracking software patient care technology systems (pcts) announced that lehigh valley  hospital and health network (lvhhn) has selected amelior ortracker automatic tracking software to improve the efficiency of surgical care  throughout its perioperative departments in all three hospitals within lvhhn.
“despite past success with benchmarking, healthcare organizations  still need a consistent, actionable, and credible measure to ensure accurate  comparisons and reporting of financial and other supply chain measures,”  said deborah sprindzunas, ahrmm’s executive director.
the next step is to  start clinical trials to test the method’s treatment safety and  efficiency.
the report also calls for greater efforts to educate the public about sun safety, staying out of the sun during peak hours, using sunscreen and protective clothing, and keeping to the shade.
liver transplant patients who have already been exposed to the hepatitis b virus (hbv) are at an increased risk of reinfection because they have weakened immune systems.
also, a higher percentage of women than men  struggle with medical bills.
through counseling, education and outreach, networks of local programs are helping beneficiaries understand and utilize their medicare benefits.
“this data shows the relative ease and high incidence of  capnometer cannula dislodgement compared to the new bioacoustic sensor,”  the researchers commented.
the anecdotal differences between states can be dramatic.
additionally, touro infirmary will fully integrate into broadlane's  technology and e-commerce exchange, broadlink.
many of those children are poor and live in neighborhoods where outdoor play is unsafe and access to fresh fruits and vegetables is limited.
while the study “dramatically increased the number of genomes that have been sequenced, we have to do more surveys,” salzberg said.
but non-invasive screening might up the number of people who decide to undergo screening, he said.
“we are very pleased to have these outstanding consorta shareholders and affiliates as new members of healthtrust,” said jim fitzgerald, president of healthtrust.
patients must  receive injections at the time of their liver transplant and throughout their  lives.
april 11, 2007 egyptian girl dies of bird flu medicare proposes revised clinical trial policy diabetes may be associated with increased risk of mild cognitive  impairment diabetes can lead to host of consequences acs report: progress against cancer at risk; early detection,  prevention need more attention vha introduces a new tool to improve capital budgeting efficiency for  hospitals amerinet signs exclusive agreement with st. theresa medical complex egyptian girl dies of bird flu a 15-year-old egyptian girl who tested positive for the h5n1 bird flu  virus has died in hospital, bringing the number of deaths from the disease in  egypt to 14, the health ministry said on wednesday.
the principles, acp says, should be considered in tandem with  other organizational principles on developing measures; sharing, aggregating,  and reporting data; and the ethics of physician performance measurement.
as a result, the doctor feels  subtly, even subconsciously, indebted to the representative.
tobacco  control and cancer screening are of particular concern, according to cancer  prevention and early detection facts & figures 2007 (cped), the annual acs  report examining the factors that influence cancer cases and deaths.
he  said this suggests that the decisions are not based on scientific evidence.
only those enrollees who were admitted to the hospital with sepsis were  counted, in order to rule out any subjects who became septic during an  unrelated hospital stay.
using  the icf would help standardize how agencies describe and measure different  aspects of disability, which would improve the clarity and comparability of  research findings and strengthen the base of scientific knowledge that guides  public policies and health practices.
april 9, 2007 fda provides web access to information on post-approval  device studies cairo’s first human bird flu infection confirmed small steps lead to healthier hearts for women china alters organ transplant laws fda announces that companies must stop marketing suppository products  containing trimethobenzamide fda licenses first biologic product to prevent hepatitis b reinfection  in liver transplant patients lehigh valley hospital and health network selects patient care  technology systems’ automatic or tracking software fda provides web access to information on post-approval device studies the u.s. food and drug administration (fda) unveiled a new web page that  will keep the public informed about the status of post-approval patient studies  for certain recently approved medical devices.
in contrast, the incidence of hbv infection in children has been dramatically reduced by universal vaccination policies, and surgeon- and dentist-to-patient transmissions of the infection were essentially eliminated with routine vaccination of healthcare workers.
the redesigned site has an improved layout, a more powerful search engine, and other features to help people locate needed health and science information more efficiently.
while some of these hospitals are large sophisticated operations, like those hospitals specializing in cardiac care, others are much more modest.
for the past five years he has authored a monthly column in healthcare purchasing news entitled “cs solutions”.
in some cases, especially with longer laboratory testing periods, different doctors and nurses may handle the testing process and reporting the results to public health agencies gets lost in the shuffle, poland said.
cutter said researchers will need to explore multiple changes that have  occurred for women over the last several decades, including the use of oral  contraceptives, earlier menstruation, obesity rates, changes in smoking rates,  and later age of first births.
in the same  year, 21,000 livers and 6,000 hearts were transplanted.
a typical hospital-based centre administered an average dose of 16,188 units per week of epoetin, while for-profit chain centres administered an average dose of 20,838 units a week.
higher tobacco taxes, restrictions on smoking in public places, counter-advertising, and coverage for quit-smoking programs and services are all effective means of curbing tobacco use.
“ninety-nine percent of the people who have a shoulder replacement for  arthritis get pain relief and say that they wish they had done it  sooner,” said mcfarland.
the program’s success spurred the launch of a  secondary group called the code care team in june 2006.
several oral capsules and injectable  products containing trimethobenzamide have been approved by fda and are not  affected by today’s action.
fagan said that in addition to protecting the brain and blood vessels through lowering blood pressure, arbs appear to provide additional benefits by blocking the damaging effects of angiotensin ii, a molecule released from the brain and probably other tissues following stroke.
the sale is not expected to result in any income taxes due from quovadx.
for more information click here http://www.healthcaresupplierinstitute.com/.to register click here http://www.healthcaresupplierinstitute.com/html/registration.html.
the newly formed company can now  offer the benefits of an integrated reprocessing and repair service approach.
an experimental blood test for prostate cancer may help eliminate tens of thousands of unnecessary biopsies at the same time that it detects many tumors that are now missed by the test commonly used, its developers said.
their work will include determining the prevalence of avian influenza in  animals that routinely come into close contact with people; understanding how  flu viruses evolve, adapt and transmit infection; and identifying immunological  factors that can determine whether a flu virus causes only mild illness or  death.
“patients tend to clamor for antibiotics, even in situations where the  evidence is clear that they are ineffective, such as with the common cold or  the flu,” said dr. everett.
with the support of fda, the u.s. national institutes of health and other  government agencies, sanofi pasteur and other manufacturers are working to  develop a next generation of influenza vaccines for enhanced immune responses  at lower doses, using technologies intended to boost the immune response.
tobacco use is expected to cause some 168,000 cancer deaths this year  alone, and overall it’s the single largest preventable cause of disease  and death in the us.
they concluded that masimo’s new bioacoustic respiratory sensor “demonstrates accuracy for respiratory rate monitoring as good as capnometry” and that the device “offers multiple benefits over existing devices and has a potential to improve monitoring in a general care setting.”
the final purchase price is subject to certain post-closing adjustments, including the final calculation of working capital for carescience as of march 31, 2007.
boston-based promutual group, which insures 18,000 healthcare clients in the northeast, warns against apologies that admit guilt.
an estimated one in six americans suffer depression at some point in their lives.
during the final phase, full scale data collection commences.
early trials have suggested not,  but it highlights the importance of keeping an eye on the impact of the drug  over the coming years should it pass the fda and european approval.
"carescience's robust clinical analytics, research capabilities and  dedicated employees enhance premier's industry-leading capabilities for  improving healthcare quality while safely reducing the cost of care," said  stephanie alexander, premier senior vice president.
adopting registered profiles is one way that cchit ensures a consistent  methodology for assessing ehr systems across all healthcare domains.
the findings of the three groups, published simultaneously today in the online edition of the journalscience, boost to at least 10 the number of genetic variants confidently associated with increased susceptibility to type 2 diabetes, a disease that affects more than 200 million people worldwide.
the new medicare trustees report shows that while medicare’s financial outlook remains troubling, the program’s outlook has improved slightly compared to last year’s estimate.
because budget builder is web-based, hospitals do not need to purchase new hardware or install new software.
right now, the only way to  definitely diagnose the disease is through a liver biopsy.
april 10, 2007 women under-treated for ovarian cancer va takes the lead in paperless care statin drugs lower respiratory death risk proportion of americans who are severely obese rising faster  than those who are moderately obese new canadian guidelines to address growing obesity epidemic
other award presentations included 260 supplier awards, as well as  the supply chain savings award, which was presented to officemax and icu  medical.
“while we looked at only four hospitals, which limits the ability to  generalize these findings, the hospital where we found a relationship between  working conditions and adverse events was disproportionately crowded for much  of the study period,” said  study co-author eran bendavid, md.
the reasons for the lack of decrease in the incidence of infections caused  by e. coli o157 and salmonella are not fully understood.
this  information is continuously updated on an electronic tracking map to inform  caregivers of anticipated demand as patients are prepared for surgery and later  for recovery.
in a  new set of guidelines for clinicians of 40-something patients, the group  recommends that mammography screening decisions be made on a case-by-case  basis.
to become an institutional member, simply submit this online form, www.aami.org/advertising/membership/institution.html, and aami will contact you.
the gene, designated vangl1, codes for a protein that enables cells to orient themselves properly during development, gros explained.
the rand health study found that based on self-reported height and weight,  which tends to understate actual bmi, 3 percent of americans are already  severely obese.
a  typical hospital-based centre administered an average dose of 16,188 units per  week of epoetin, while for-profit chain centres administered an average dose of  20,838 units a week.
broadlink is for broadlane clients only and is not owned by suppliers.
for more informationclick here.
adverse reactions were similar to other immune  globulin products for other indications and included headache and hypertension.
while the control group showed damage in 50 percent of  the brain, those receiving the drugs hydralazine and enalapril showed 30  percent damage.
to be classified as severely obese, a person must have a body mass index of 40 or higher, roughly 100 pounds or more overweight for an average adult man.
but it is often hard to do.
review of the clinical and viral genetic information available on these seven  patients indicated that four were likely infected in a community setting, while  the remaining three were probably infected through contact with siblings  shedding the mutant viruses.
the guidelines were developed by a panel of experts from across canada, who identified a need for a comprehensive set of clinical guidelines to provide healthcare practitioners with a toolkit to manage and treat overweight and obese patients, as well as those who have a high waist circumference.
two-thirds of americans are overweight, and those extra pounds make joints wear out more quickly, boost cholesterol and blood pressure, and raise the risk of a host of debilitating health problems.
the ovhc member organizations include adena health system, chillicothe; fairfield medical center, lancaster; holzer health systems, gallipolis; and marietta memorial hospital, marietta.
there is no limit to the number of alarm units that may be traded.
for more information,  seethis link or this link.
the proposed case-mix model includes a proposal to  replace the current therapy threshold at 10 visits per episode with three new  therapy thresholds at six, 14, and 20 therapy visits.
“cardiology is a highly influential  specialty within the medical profession.
during 38 percent of the visits, the “main  message” involved discussion of at least one use of gabapentin that was  not approved by the fda at the time, he says.
“this is a  proactive step,” said david acheson, chief medical officer of the fda  center for food safety and applied nutrition.
data from 2004  showed a leveling-off relative to the 2003 rate with little additional  decrease.
the problem grew even  faster among surgical patients; the rate of staph aureus infection rose 7.9 percent each year for all surgical stays and 9.3 percent each year  for orthopedic patients.
the law required all residents to get health insurance or face a fine or tax penalty.
convincing administration about hiring the team was  relatively easy as both the finance committee and chief financial officer  understood the value of the rapid response team concept.
consumers who have products manufactured by pharmafab should consult  with their physician.
the  costs of staph aureus for invasive cardiovascular stays and invasive  neurological stays rose at 12.4 percent a year and 13.5 percent a year,  respectively.
by more accurately recognizing the costs of caring for a patient, the new ms-drgs will further reduce incentives for hospitals to “cherry pick,” the practice of treating only the healthiest and most profitable patients.
republicans in  particular who had been skeptical about the benefit now acknowledge its success  and are reluctant to tamper with it.
additionally,  hire heroes will work with potential employers by contacting interested  healthcare companies to identify suitable positions for the veterans.
the letter clarifies that the medicare conditions of participation (cops) do  not permit a hospital to rely upon 9-1-1 services as a substitute for the  hospital’s own ability to provide these services.
this is partly because pertussis immunity from early childhood  vaccinations wears off, leaving adults and adolescents susceptible to the  disease.
gpo’s and the federal government have contracted for spsmedical  products, which are available through authorized distributors worldwide.
amerinet inc., a national health care purchasing organization, recently renewed its agreement to serve as the sole-source purchasing agent of the ohio valley hospital consortium (ovhc), an alliance of regional health care providers in south east ohio, following a competitive bidding process.
einhorn says diabetes, like high blood pressure or high  cholesterol, is painless and easy to ignore until it has already caused damage.
new research shows that flu is a trigger of heart attacks doctors need to take concerted action to ensure that people who are at risk of heart disease receive the influenza vaccine every autumn, according to the authors of a new report published in theeuropean heart journal.
the ultra-pro ii needle guide now incorporates more flexibility and advanced features to increase productivity during ultrasound-guided procedures.
coronary artery calcium, a  form of arterial plaque, is a predictor of later heart disease.
overall, hormone therapy did not reduce the risk of chd.
the 106,116 patients who attended large for-profit dialysis centres were consistently administered the highest doses of epoetin compared with 28,199 patients who attended nonprofit centres, regardless of how anemic they were.
“now, what we are saying is that medical science has advanced.”
“much of the suffering and death from cancer could be prevented by more systematic efforts to reduce tobacco use, improve diet, increase activity levels, and expand the use of established screening tests,” said john r. seffrin, phd, national chief executive officer of the american cancer society.
unlike traditional colonoscopy, the virtual method is faster, involves no  sedation, no post-procedure recovery, and no risk of invasive complications  such as abdominal bleeding or life-threatening bowel perforation.
organ banks have also been aggressively promoting a  controversial practice that allows surgeons to take organs from patients who  are not brain dead, more than doubling the number of such donations in the past  three years.
wound care is done only in designated, confined treatment spaces or  separate rooms, and hospital staff must take special precautions between  treatments, such as cleaning equipment and furniture with strong disinfectants  and wearing disposable gloves, masks and gowns.
these findings are consistent with the primary publications from the whi  trials of estrogen plus progestin and estrogen-alone (total of 27,347  participants) in showing no overall benefit for chd, and in suggesting that  risk due to hormones may differ depending on age or years since menopause.
too much hemoglobin is dangerous because it increases the risk of heart attacks, strokes and blood clots.
“our study is proof of concept for a  mechanism underlying the disease and (may possibly) block its  progression,” said donath, who added, “interleukin-1 beta may be  involved in other complications of the disease, such as arteriosclerosis.
the u.s. food and drug administration (fda) has caused an unnecessary  scare about some pain relievers by adding a warning to drugs that are safe,  said curt furberg, m.d., ph.d., from wake forest university school of medicine.
according  to researchers on the pfizer trials, the priority now is to get the drug to the  people who are running out of options.
in addition,  mosser oversees the management teams responsible for procurement services,  contracting and supplier management, product management, technology management  and planning, inventory management and supply distribution services at all  health system campuses.
supportive therapy, on the other hand, may be useful, and may keep  someone who has been through a divorce or has lost a job from going on to  develop full-blown depression.
whether the rises continue or not, federal officials say,  rates have stagnated in the deep south at levels well above the national  average.
canada is the first country in the world to produce comprehensive evidence-based guidelines to address the management and prevention of overweight and obesity in adults and children.
in late february, the ehr system functional model standard  became the healthcare industry’s first ansi-approved standard to specify  the functional requirements for an electronic health record system.
as reported on april 22 by fda, the agency determined that rice protein concentrate imported from china was contaminated with melamine and melamine-related compounds.
for the sickest infants and children, pediatric intensive-care units provide the highest level of medical care, treating children after complicated surgeries, severe illness or accidents.
in a second transaction sunday, april 1, 2007, quovadx inc. and battery ventures entered into an agreement wherein battery ventures will acquire 100 percent of the outstanding shares of the common stock of quovadx, inc. for $136.7 million payable to quovadx stockholders.
beyond the  minimum specified services that the federal government mandates state medicaid  programs to provide, states may choose to expand coverage for other services.
the council of supply chain executives is pleased to announce the participation of bill mosser.
“that suggests hospitals operating at the high end of their capacity may  need to examine safety systems with an eye towards coping with periods of high  stress.”
ccr5 stands for chemokine (c-c motif) receptor 5.
“non-existent or lax laws on organ donation and transplantation encourage commercialism and transplant tourism,” said dr. luc noel, in charge of transplantation at who.
the study also found that one of every three stays of uninsured patients was related to a mental health or substance abuse disorder.
furberg said while the  evidence for the non-selective nsaids is somewhat limited, an analysis  combining several small studies found that high doses (500 mg twice daily) of  aleve were not associated with an increased risk of heart attacks compared to a  placebo, or an inactive pill.
while infections have always been a risk for hospital patients of every  age, experts say that children may be at even higher risk than adults.
nih referred only those 10 cases to the hhs office of inspector general (oig), which referred two to the justice department for possible prosecution.
while this study sheds valuable light on the mystery of  metastasis, there are still areas that puzzle experts.
“the proportion of people at the high end of the weight  scale continues to increase at a brisk rate despite increased public attention  on the risks of obesity and the increased use of drastic weight loss strategies  such as bariatric surgery,” said roland sturm, author of the report and  an economist at rand, a nonprofit research organization.
“we  labored for over a year testing and analyzing the rubbermaid equipment and  recommended procedures.
group practice physicians along with solo or two-person practices also met more frequently with industry representatives such as drug detailers than did physicians practicing in hospitals or clinics or staff model hmos.
to make their discoveries, researchers used a relatively new, comprehensive strategy known as a genome-wide association study.
the schedule is as follows: wednesday, april 4, 2 pm - 3 pm eastern, “pdu: what's in it for hospitals?”
the system, known as computer-aided detection, or cad, did not find more breast cancer, researchers are reporting today.
“lower numbers of shoulder procedures done both regionally and nationally may indicate that many people live with shoulder pain because they fear that the corrective surgery is too risky or costs more than similar procedures.
in addition to professional credentials in the field of central service technology and education, he holds a bs degree in management and counseling and an mba.
their work will include determining the prevalence of avian influenza in animals that routinely come into close contact with people; understanding how flu viruses evolve, adapt and transmit infection; and identifying immunological factors that can determine whether a flu virus causes only mild illness or death.
there has been documented evidence of the emergence of  oseltamivir-resistant type a viruses, but similar information on influenza b  viruses has been limited.
however, too little progress has been made in adopting the major public policy and practice recommendations made in the 1991 and 1997 iom reports.
the “live” web cast will originate  from tampa general hospital (tampa, fl).
however, as the disease progresses, the virus adapts to use an alternative  entry point, the cxr4 receptor.
the u.s. centers for disease control and prevention now recommends that adults and adolescents be given a tetanus-diphtheria-pertussis booster (tdap) in place of the tetanus-diphtheria (td) booster to reduce the burden of pertussis in the united states.
to see if the oxidative lesions played a role in expansion of the extra dna segment, the researchers next deleted ogg1, a key enzyme in oxidative lesion repair.
the measure aims to establish more computerized registries of people who  have agreed to be donors but makes no similar provision for those who do not  want to be donors.
in speculating on the results, the team suggested the four  genes have to work together to help both tumour growth and spread.
however, a person carrying two copies of the allele has a 70% increased risk of being obese, being on average 3kg heavier than a similar person with no copies.
he opposes the rhode island legislation.
the tests also have helped lead to shorter hospital stays for kids and lessened the amount of extra laboratory testing, the study said.
“by  utilizing medassets’ group purchasing contracts and technology,  physicians and other non-acute care providers will save money on purchases for  common medical supplies, office supplies, business services, pharmaceuticals,  and capital equipment,” said gary green, senior vice president, medassets  supply chain systems.
a law in vermont exempts only oral statements of regret or apology, not written ones.
to be ranked in overall patient-safety performance, hospitals had to be  rated in at least 19 of the 28 procedures and diagnoses rated by healthgrades  and have a current overall healthgrades star rating of at least 2.5 out of 5.0.
congress has asked for various  reports on the issue, including a comprehensive analysis last year by the  federal department of health and human services.
(source: the wall street journal)
“it’s very  concerning that we see such a large proportion of women with ovarian cancer not  being treated up to what we would consider a minimal standard for  surgery,” said the study’s lead author, dr. barbara a. goff,  director of the division of gynecologic oncology at the university of  washington, seattle.
“individuals in the earliest stage of alzheimer’s disease are often not aware of their progressing memory loss, and family members often believe the changes are simply due to aging,” clark said.
group practice physicians along with solo or two-person  practices also met more frequently with industry representatives such as drug  detailers than did physicians practicing in hospitals or clinics or staff model  hmos.
the decrease was evident only in women who were 50 years of age or  older and was more evident in cancers that were estrogen-receptor (er)-positive  than in those that were er-negative.
“ongoing research, such as this study, demonstrates that adolescents and adults can transmit pertussis to infants,” van rie said.
there is limited space available for this free provider only offering, so those interested in participating should contact harla adams at 817-842-2331 or hadams@nihcl.com.
boomers are healthier in some important ways, they are much less likely to smoke, for example, but large surveys are consistently finding that they tend to describe themselves as less hale and hearty than their forebears did at the same age.
“we know that the  differences between programs reflect both differences in priorities and  resources, but nobody knows the extent of them.
“xactimed’s solutions and services  will complement as well as expand medassets’ revenue cycle suite,  allowing us to provide an integrated, comprehensive offering to help healthcare  providers improve their net revenue by improving business processes around  billing and collections.
spsmedical introduces new catalog spsmedical introduces a redesigned 2007 catalog featuring sterilization  products, services and educational programs.
however,  other scientists would prefer to wait for the results of human trials before  getting too excited.
april 5, 2007 scientists spot mutation linked to birth defects medicare announces measure specifications for the physician quality reporting initiative health system to receive a license from state of florida to operate a pharmaceutical repackaging facility four numbers on a piece of paper may not mean much to you, but for leesar the supply chain company for lee memorial health system and sarasota memorial health system (fl) it means a lot.
ultimately, these studies will lay the groundwork for developing new and improved control measures for emerging and reemerging flu viruses.
searchable computerized databases also allow physicians to examine  information collected across time and space.
“we also need to ask the general questions about what women do differently than men, such as use of hair dye and use of cosmetics that may block vitamin d absorption,” he said.
oxidative lesions also accumulate in people who do not have huntington’s disease, but because their huntingtin gene lacks the extra segment it is not prone to expansion.
april 16, 2007 staph aureus infection rates on the rise in u.s. hospitals rhode island hospital study identifies high-risk patient populations for mrsa carriage rare case of dental patient-to-patient hepatitis b virus transmission recorded jani-king approves healthcare cleaning system independent healthcare research leader announces new name: ecri institute healthcare providers to benefit from amerinet’s agreement with med1online cms proposes payment reforms for inpatient hospital services in 2008
the proposal sets a sliding scale of affordability standards in which, for example, a single person earning $40,001 a year would be expected to pay no more than 9 percent of income, or about $300 a month, for health insurance; a single person earning $25,000 a year would be expected to pay a much smaller percentage, about 3.3 percent of income, or $70 a month.
in the latest work, researchers began by scanning the genomes of more than 2,300 finnish people who took part in the finland-united states investigation of niddm genetics (fusion) and finrisk 2002 studies.
fda would continue to waive the fee for all first-time pre-market approval applications for businesses with $30 million or less in annual sales or receipts.
this report reiterates the absence of a  comprehensive disability monitoring system and recommends creating one.
amerinet will continue to negotiate custom contracts on behalf of ovhc, and make available an array of competitively priced, quality products and services provided by industry leaders.
but the benefit also has gained wide popularity, costing  consumers and the government far less than initially projected.
linked to america’s increasing obesity problem, doctors have predicted a  steep increase in the coming years.
utilizing  dna purified from blood or cells, researchers quickly survey each  participant’s complete set of dna, or genome, for strategically selected  markers of genetic variation.
fda is accepting public  comments on the proposal for the next 30 days and is holding a public meeting  on april 30.
in addition  to professional credentials in the field of central service technology and  education, he holds a bs degree in management and counseling and an mba.
make sure to select the dues level that best fits your department or facility’s needs.
“we continue to believe that arcoxia has the potential to become a valuable treatment option,” lindemann said, adding that merck would continue to sell the drug outside the united states.
the company has a diversion program and a  dea-approved suspicious-order monitoring program in place to identify customers  who are suspected of inappropriately selling products sold to them by  amerisourcebergen.
the f.d.a. confirmed its inquiry in response to  questions from the new york times.
so the australian team turned to scientists at the greene infectious disease laboratory of the mailman school of public health of columbia university, who have been developing new techniques for diagnosing infectious diseases with funds from the national institute of allergy and infectious diseases (niaid), part of the national institutes of health.
the fda has failed to recognize the evidence that the risk of heart  attack varies substantially among this group of drugs and that voltaren has the  highest risk of all.
anesthesiologists had only 2 meetings a month.
to help them succeed, cms will continue to provide training for ship counselors and full access to computer programs and other support tools, such as the plan finder tool and tip sheets, developed by cms to help ships with outreach and other functions.
this blood loss was also  attributed to poor uterine activity in the obese group.
the agencies expect the investigation will continue to find more places where  product may have been distributed.
a ministry statement said marianna kameel mikhail, who was admitted to hospital in cairo on thursday, died of respiratory failure on tuesday evening despite being treated with the antiviral tamiflu and being placed on a respirator.
products are organized by category and include color images, information about product features and benefits.
the foodnet data showed there continues to be little change in the incidence of salmonella cases, and progress made in 2003 and 2004 in reducing the number of cases of with e. coli o157 infections has been lost.
“we’re not trying to take away from the screening already in  place.
“our study suggests that pushing efficiency efforts to their limits could be a double-edged sword that may jeopardize patient safety.”
we hope that the number of  women dying of ovarian cancer will decline as well.”
combining the two companies’ expertise in the repair and reprocessing of medical devices will provide customers with a comprehensive single-source supplier.
for instance, some patients are diagnosed with metastased tumours without the primary tumour every being found.
the risk for foodborne illness can also be decreased by choosing in-shell pasteurized eggs, irradiated ground meat, and high pressure-treated oysters.
everybody’s problem, the growing cost of health coverage, can be felt differently depending on the size of a company and whether it has promised health benefits to retirees.
although the survey guidance issued today applies to all hospitals, it also  implements one element of thestrategic and implementing plan for specialty  hospitals that cms reported to congress in august of 2006, in accordance  with the provisions of section 5006 of the deficit reduction act of 2005.
for example, the quality assessment was largely  based on nursing home performance and the success of childhood immunizations,  although medicaid pays for the entire range of medical care.
respiration is one of the five vital signs, but clinicians have long looked for a continuous and noninvasive method of monitoring respiration that is both clinically accurate, easy to use, and well tolerated by patients.
“our findings suggest a possible answer to someone who might ask ‘i eat the same and do as much exercise as my friend next door, so why am i fatter?’
that made it profitable for large centers to use it.
each listing includes the  company’s name, the product’s name, the approval number and date,  and describes the study and whether it is meeting its reporting deadlines.
the figures are reported in the  “million women study” by professor valerie beral and colleagues, of  the cancer research uk epidemiology unit, oxford, uk.
this webinar is led by joe pleasant, cio,  premier, inc., chair, ches product data utility organizing committee and dennis  black, director of e-business at bd (becton, dickinson and company) thursday, april 26, 1pm - 2pm eastern, “pdu: how hospitals can  take the lead” hospital materials managers and financial executives are taking ownership  of their supply chain, and adopting best practices to rein in costs.
“by adding these honorable veterans to the healthcare industry, they will be able to continue to serve and to make a difference.”
while the news about resistance is not good and certainly calls into question some of the current assumptions about drug-resistant viruses, an effective response to this news can help contend with the new challenges of influenza.”
misusing vitamin to foil drug test may be toxic taking excessive doses of a common vitamin in an attempt to defeat drug screening tests may send the user to the hospital, or worse.
this is partly because pertussis immunity from early childhood vaccinations wears off, leaving adults and adolescents susceptible to the disease.
“going  green” not only is a smart way for hospitals to protect the environment,  it also allows them to reduce operational costs, gain a competitive advantage  and keep staff and patients satisfied.
“the problem with physician-owned specialty  hospitals is that decision-making is more likely to be driven by financial  interest rather than patient interest,” said senator charles e. grassley,  (r-ia).
“if the  anticipated nih study supports the findings of the last 30 years, this may help  stem the tide of antibiotic overuse.
the report appeared online in theannals of emergency  medicine.
but a new  report from the american cancer society warns that this progress is threatened  by disturbing trends in cancer prevention and early detection efforts.
the authors expressed concern that overprescription of epoetin was taking place in the for-profit centres.
the newly formed company can now offer the benefits of an integrated reprocessing and repair service approach.
two of every five women who die are taken by heart disease or stroke, more than from all forms of cancer combined.
the authors suggest that the primary reason for these differences is that hospitals may be more likely to have policies and practices in place that limit physician contact with industry representatives.
smoking rates among high school students did  not change significantly between 2003 and 2005, the report says.
that enabled the investigators to compare results with and without computer software to help radiologists find suspicious spots.
foodnet monitors foodborne disease and related epidemiologic studies to help health officials better understand the epidemiology of foodborne diseases in the united states.
“we encourage physicians to apologize about the outcome, not necessarily for any error that may have occurred,” promutual spokeswoman nina akerley said.
but sharkey county, one of the poorest, has had a  startlingly different record.
“postmenopausal hormone therapy and risk of cardiovascular disease by age  and years since menopause,” will be published in the april 4 issue of the journal of the american medical association.
cdc report highlights growing foodborne illness challenges; e. coli  o157, salmonella, vibrio cause concern a report released thursday by the centers for disease control and  prevention (cdc) shows a leveling of cases for some foodborne infections after  a period of decline.
the federal government estimates that the disease affects 2 to 5 percent  of americans, while another 10 to 20 percent of the population has fat in their  liver, but no inflammation or liver damage.
public health officials believe the lack of treatment options underscores the need for accelerated research into new drugs, as well as increased efforts to monitor for emerging drug resistance, especially to cephalosporins.
about two-thirds of americans are overweight or obese, and only a fraction get the exercise needed to help stave off weight gain or lose weight.
“after looking at how all these patients fared, we concluded that, comparatively, total shoulder surgery is just as safe and effective as other types of arthroplasties,” said mcfarland.
this rule proposes ways to improve the comprehensiveness of the case-mix model and thus improve the accuracy of medicare’s payments.
for  the sickest infants and children, pediatric intensive-care units provide the  highest level of medical care, treating children after complicated surgeries,  severe illness or accidents.
“i think all through my career, what the medical system tried to teach people is that when you have a virus or influenza, don’t come in because there is nothing we can do,” poland said.
“because of the lack of snow cover on russian  fields, the country has had an explosion in numbers of virus-carrying  mice.”
high levels of sugar in the blood can damage veins, causing vision loss, kidney disease and loss of circulation to the legs and feet that can result in amputation.
the facility will receive new control units  at no cost by agreeing to purchase a minimum number of sensor pads over the  next 24-month or 36-month period.
and, the high cost of healthcare services and premiums is forcing many women, even women with health insurance, to go without needed care.
the proposed  rule recommends changes to the way medicare pays for hospital capital-related  costs based on an analysis that showed substantial positive margins experienced  by some hospitals.
pugliese noted that such information can provide an  important starting point for projects whose ultimate goal is to reduce waste,  save money and protect a community's quality of life both now and for future  generations.
effective through march 31, 2010, this agreement includes  skytron’s patient examination and procedure lighting.
experts estimate that as many as 200,000 of the procedures were performed in  2006.
huntington’s disease, an inherited neurodegenerative disorder that affects roughly 30,000 americans, is incurable and fatal.
stakeholders agreed to the creation of a global forum on  transplantation to be spearheaded by who, to assist and support developing  countries initiating transplantation programs and to work towards a unified  global coding system for cells, tissues and organs.
but the letter, made public by the house  energy and commerce committee, which has spearheaded inquiries into nih for  years, said the review began about six months ago.
josé a. luchsinger, m.d., and colleagues at columbia university medical center, ny, studied 918 individuals older than 65 years (average age 75.9) who did not have mild cognitive disorder or dementia when they enrolled between 1992 and 1994.
for more information seethis link. april 3, 2007 healthgrades patient-safety study shows hospital errors  rise 3 percent mammograms for women in their 40s should be based on individual ahrmm & arizona state university partner on healthcare supply  chain benchmarking initiative is it the flu?
ccr5 stands for chemokine  (c-c motif) receptor 5.
the institute of medicine (iom) was asked to assess the current situation and provide recommendations for improvement, which culminated in the report “the future of disability in america”.
novaplus products are identical to their  brand-name equivalents and offer hospitals quality products for the best price  and the benefits of standardization.
in a separate development, cms issued a proposed rule on april 13, 2007 that would increase transparency and public disclosure concerning emergency services.
while not definitive, the data sketch a startlingly different picture than the popular image of health-obsessed workout fanatics who know their antioxidants from their trans fats and look 10 years younger than their age.
other factors contribute to this gender gap in healthcare coverage and access: women are slightly more likely than men to purchase coverage in the individual insurance market which is often more expensive and less comprehensive than employer coverage.
the traditional culture tests are more consistently accurate and they can distinguish between flu subtypes with more specificity.
at its healthcare business summit in las vegas, april 9-13, medassets  announced its commitment to further expand its technologies and services to  help healthcare providers improve their overall financial and operational  performance.
gpos can provide manufacturers  with data on contract terms and conditions, including tier pricing,  definitions, and requirements, as well as which customers are eligible for  various contracts.
because desi findings apply to any unapproved products that  are identical, related, or similar to desi-reviewed drugs, today’s notice  makes the marketing of any unapproved trimethobenzamide hydrochloride  suppository products unlawful.
the proportion of americans who are severely obese, about 100 pounds or  more overweight, increased by 50 percent from 2000 to 2005, twice as fast as  the growth seen in moderate obesity, according to a rand corporation study  issued today.
“decisions by  regulatory agencies are expected to follow explicit regulations and should be  evidence-based,” said furberg.
mcfarland's team also determined that the average time a person remained  hospitalized after the surgery was lowest for those recovering from shoulder  procedures (just 2.42 days for shoulder patients, versus more than four days  for both the hip and knee equivalents).
the tissue-based devices are used in many surgical settings, including open heart surgery in adults, children and infants, and to repair soft tissue during neurosurgery and abdominal, pelvic and thoracic surgery.
previous efforts to decrease the incidence of e. coli o157 in ground beef and  salmonella in eggs have been successful, but contamination of other foods may  be the problem now, according to dr. robert tauxe, deputy director of  cdc’s division of foodborne, bacterial and mycotic diseases.
about one-third of us cancer deaths are related to excess weight, poor nutrition, and lack of physical activity, the report notes.
the ability to detect trends in physiological variables such as serum  chemistry, cell counts, blood pressure and even weight is important to good  decision-making.
”there have been many association studies, some risk factors  identified in certain genes, alterations in some genes associated with neural  tube defects, but there hasn’t been any clearly causative  mutation,” gros said.
kenneth gustke, m.d., founding member of the american association of hip and knee surgeons, will perform the total knee replacement surgery.
“even if statins are not able to significantly reduce the risk of death from avian influenza, their use could significantly extend the time between disease onset and death,” they wrote.
the canadian embassy in mexico city issued an alert about dengue after  five canadians were sickened in puerto vallarta earlier this year.
in one year, the hospital achieved a 40  percent reduction for in-patient non-critical care codes.
they can warn of things that shouldn’t be done, provide reminders of what should be done and monitor whatis done.
the new partnership will focus on total supply spend management and margin  enhancement services, including cost reduction, contract evaluation, contract  implementation and program coordination at all of the st. theresa facilities.
together, these  tools offer physicians reduced technique variability, providing a shorter  learning curve and reduced procedure time.
pregnancy may accelerate breast cell differentiation, the process by which cells take on specialized roles.
the fees currently paid by  businesses with $100 million or less in annual sales or receipts would be  reduced from 80 percent of the full fee in the first device user fee program to  50 percent for 510(k) applications, and from 38 percent to 25 percent for  pre-market approvals and related supplement fees.
the national average in 2003, the last year for which data have been compiled,  was 6.9.
“naproxen does not increase the risk of heart attacks and ought to be a painkiller of choice,” said furberg.
cancer screening tests can find the disease at its earliest stage, when treatments are more likely to be successful.
heart disease also often takes place in women differently than it does in  men, goldberg added.
“this approval provides a new treatment option for the reduction of hepatitis b recurrence in liver transplant patients with a prior history of this serious disease,” said jesse goodman, m.d., m.p.h., director of fda’s center for biologics evaluation and research.
in a  letter sent to several members of congress on march 23, daniel r. levinson,  inspector general for the department of health and human services, said his  office is looking into the cases “to determine whether investigation is  warranted.”
for who’s  timeline of events for avian influenza see this link.
for more information see  this link healthcare providers to benefit from amerinet’s agreement with  med1online amerinet inc. announces its agreement with med1online for customized  medical equipment management services.
spsmedical is the  largest sterilizer testing laboratory in n. america and sells a comprehensive  line of sterility assurance products including biological indicators, chemical  indicators, integrators, bowie-dick test packs, packaging and recordkeeping  products.
“influenza viruses evolve rapidly and nimbly, which compels ongoing  investigation of antiviral therapies that use alternative mechanisms of action  and target different points in the viral life cycle.
“the problem i see is that, yes, women are much more knowledgeable, but they aren’t translating that knowledge into action,” said dr. jennifer mieres, director of nuclear cardiology and associate professor of clinical medicine at new york university school of medicine, and a national spokeswoman for the american heart association.
a study published in 2004 compared the care of va and non-va patients in 12 communities, using 348 quality indicators as the yardstick.
now, with mounting alarm about the high  rate of hospital-acquired infections, critical-care specialists are taking new  steps to protect the smallest and most vulnerable patients, challenging the  prevailing wisdom that infections are simply inevitable in a busy and stressful  intensive-care environment.
this anticipated mismatch between supply and demand is perhaps no different for critical care services than for other medical care disproportionately serving elders, ranging from emergency services to long-term care services, but the opportunities for improving the efficiency of the existing system to meet demand are probably greater.”
but as many as 30 percent of women  suffer from micro-vascular coronary disease, goldberg said.
many treatments  for alzheimer’s and other brain degenerative diseases target the early  stages, while this study suggests memory and learning may be restorable even  when the brain is already quite damaged.
besides the f.d.a. inquiry, lilly is facing federal and state investigations into the way it marketed and promoted zyprexa.
“if you look at statistics of women who’ve died suddenly of heart attack, two-thirds died before they could reach the hospital,” goldberg said.
campbell and his co-authors, including institute for health policy director  david blumenthal, md, report that the idea that companies target opinion  leaders for marketing is further suggested by the higher frequency of industry  payments to physicians who have developed clinical guidelines and who serve as  mentors for doctors in training.
in addition to cost savings, the benefits of supplyline include reduced waste and excess, improved inventory controls, improved utilization management and outcome analysis.
ray taurasi joins healthmark industries healthmark industries company, inc. (st. clair shores, mi) is pleased to  announce the appointment of ray taurasi as the new director clinical sales  & services - eastern region.
in fact, the  johns hopkins researchers say, their study shows that patients who undergo  shoulder arthroplasty to relieve chronic and significant pain can expect  significantly fewer complications, much shorter hospital stays and less costs  than patients undergoing hip or knee replacement.
the sale is not expected to result in any income taxes  due from quovadx.
“nonalcoholic fatty liver disease hasn’t really been studied, in part, because investigators can’t get access to samples,” gerhard said.
under the more limited criteria the researchers urged, that number would be 25 percent lower.
floyd frost of the lovelace respiratory research institute in albuquerque, new mexico, and colleagues analyzed their institute’s database of medical records from several health maintenance organizations.
misusing vitamin to foil drug test may be toxic taking excessive doses of a common vitamin in an attempt to defeat drug  screening tests may send the user to the hospital, or worse.
they found that 11,892 people died from acute myocardial infarction (ami) (47.8% men and 52.2% women), and 23,000 died from chronic ischaemic heart disease (ihd) (40.1% men and 59.9% women).
the company also offers medicare direct claims processing,  accounts receivable collections and denials management with more than 350  hospitals and provider organizations as clients.
the experts’ prime advice for women diagnosed with ovarian cancer or suspected ovarian cancer: seek out a specialist.
“the younger generation is going to live sicker and die younger than their parents because of obesity.”
the study found that people carrying one copy of the fto allele have a 30%  increased risk of being obese compared to a person with no copies.
if they resume distributing drugs, the defendants are required to retain an auditor to conduct inspections of their facilities for a period of five years and to provide reports to fda analyzing compliance with cgmp and labeling requirements.
this  doesn’t change that balance,” said christina w. strong, who  represented the association of organ procurement organizations.
the premier safety institute web site has extensive resources on latex allergies and environmentally preferable purchasing at www.premierinc.com/safety .
“dupont engineered elastic nonwoven technology is a breakthrough  development that enhances our traditional nonwoven media portfolio and provides  a cost-effective substrate for high-power elastic sheeting applications,”  said matt trerotola, vice president and general manager, dupont  nonwovens.
other award presentations included 260 supplier awards, as well as the supply chain savings award, which was presented to officemax and icu medical.
the report is based on 2004 data, the latest currently available, from ahrq’s healthcare cost and utilization project nationwide inpatient sample, a database of hospital inpatient stays that is nationally representative of all short-term, non-federal hospitals.
pain often is felt lower in the chest and mistaken for a stomach problem.”
all had normal epca-2 readings (below 30 ng per  ml.).
“a fair and accurate reconsideration process is yet another way to minimize unintended consequences that may compromise the care of the patient,” said acp president lynne m. kirk, md, facp.
limited slots are available for suppliers to  participate.
of 34 cases confirmed in egypt, 13 have been fatal.
consorta will remain an independent organization, serving as its shareholders’ voice on the healthtrust board of advisors, and on healthtrust clinical advisory boards to guide product selection.
the healthcare supply chain benchmarking and performance improvements metrics is in the first phase of development.
disability in the form of limited activities and restricted participation in social life is not an unavoidable result of injury and chronic disease.
further, 16% of women are underinsured, meaning they have high out-of-pocket costs compared to their income, while only 9% of men are underinsured.
the deadly hemorrhagic form of dengue fever is increasing dramatically in  mexico, and experts predict a surge throughout latin america fueled by climate  change, migration and faltering mosquito eradication efforts.
) director elias a. zerhouni, m.d. “such research is opening the door to the era of personalized medicine.
(washington post) ches webinar series focuses on benefits of synchronized product data across the health care industry
the organization’s redesigned public web site  offers improved navigation and enhanced content.
officials have not found the substance in food products for people but detected it in two imported ingredients widely used in pet food: wheat gluten and rice protein.
accurate reports of physician performance will allow physicians to effectively assess and improve their performance, and enable consumers and purchasers to make informed decisions concerning treatments, coverage and the quality of care.
latin america’s hospitals are ill-equipped to handle major  outbreaks, and officials say the virus is likely to grow deadlier, in part  because tourism and migration are circulating four different strains across the  region.
the survey also found that: pediatricians and anesthesiologists were  significantly less likely than family practitioners to receive samples,  reimbursements and payments for professional services.
as the whole population becomes heavier, the extreme category, the severely obese, increases the fastest.
differences in hormone therapy effects were examined in three age categories  (50 to 59, 60 to 69, and 70 to 79) or in years since the onset of menopause  (less than 10, 10 to 19, and 20 or more).
this may be  especially important in an influenza pandemic when we would expect to see high  mortality amongst the elderly and those suffering from heart problems or who  have multiple coronary risk factors,” he said.
seventeen were for patient records accessed by unauthorized  people, and three were for release of medical data to third parties without  patient consent, va spokeswoman jo schuda said.
a person earning up to $15,315, one and half times the federal poverty level, would not have to pay anything under this proposal.
in 2006, novaplus’ portfolio of products helped members realize substantial supply cost savings through novaplus purchases.
“the explosion in the use of bariatric surgery has made no noticeable dent in the trend of morbid obesity,” sturm said.
william brady, an emergency medicine professor at the university of virginia, said that the total number of gunshot wounds would swamp any hospital, especially those in rural areas with limited resources.
agency investigators concluded that about half of those who were suspected of wrongdoing and who were still employed at nih (and thus available for questioning) had indeed violated policies, including 10 who the agency concluded may have violated federal law.
people with the disease have a version of a gene called huntingtin that carries an extra segment with a particular sequence of repeated subunits.
“over the past year, vic has been instrumental in leading amerinet through its organizational transition to one national group purchasing organization,” zimmerli stated in a press release distributed to the media this morning.
the  initial grant is distributed as a fixed award of $75,000 ($25,000 to guam and  the virgin islands) to each of the applicants.
now your  computer is lying in pieces and you’re unable to use it,” said  mcmurray.
members of the baby boom generation, people born between  1946 and 1964, face an especially uncertain future as they grow older, as their  risk of disability increases, and as programs such as social security and  medicare face serious funding challenges.
cms is also proposing to revise the way to account for non-routine medical supplies (nrs) in the standardized 60-day episode payment rate.
nih spokesman john burklow said: “we welcome the additional review; however, we are confident in the rigor of our process.”
consorta will  also provide educational and analytical programs and manage member compliance  for its shareholders.
“if there’s a patient requiring  palliative or comfort care, you treat them first.
symptoms include fever, rash, headache, pain behind the eyes, and muscle and joint pain.
novation, the health care contracting services company of vha inc. and the  university healthsystem consortium (uhc), recently introduced the first product  catalog for its private label brand, novaplus.
to compare some of these options, pickhardt and his colleagues developed a  mathematical model involving 100,000 patients with an average risk for  colorectal cancer.
decrease in breast cancer incidence linked to drop in hormone replacement a special report in the april 19, 2007 edition of the new england  journal of medicine concludes that the sharp decline in breast-cancer  incidence in 2003, followed by a relative stabilization at a lower rater in  2004, is most likely related to the first report of the women’s health  initiative (whi) (jama 2002; 288:321-333.
they broadly agreed that there was a need to regionalize  and tier the critical care system, similar to what previously had been done by  the u.s. trauma system.
(the national average in 2003 was 5.7 for whites and  14.0 for blacks.)
“this study found a dramatically reduced risk of  death from copd among statin users and a significantly reduced risk of death  from influenza/pneumonia,” the researchers wrote in their report,  published in the journalchest.
fabrics produced from dupont engineered elastic nonwoven  technology can be high stretch or high stretch with varying degrees of elastic  recovery power, depending on end user needs.
study participants who had these symptoms were more likely to have risk factors for chd such as high blood pressure or high blood cholesterol, but it was not clear whether this explained their higher risk on hormone therapy.
more than 20 other hantaviruses threaten people in china, korea, northern and western europe, argentina, chile, brazil, panama, and canada.
however, the american cancer society (acs) has not yet backed this option as a proven screening method, citing the need for further research.
dr. mittal added that there is a report in the medical literature of a patient who suffered liver failure, requiring a liver transplant, after taking excessive doses of niacin.
amerisourcebergen is not doing business with any of the four customers cited by the dea, and all of the pharmacies mentioned by the agency held active dea licenses to sell controlled substances at the time amerisourcebergen sold product to them.
catherine loria, the lead author and an epidemiologist  at the national heart, lung and blood institute, said even young people should  be screened.
few advocate a wholesale shift to government-directed medicine, but most are seeking broad changes in the employer-subsidized health system, which they regard as unsustainable in its current form.
“this is an exciting piece of work that illustrates why it was so  important to sequence the human genome,” said dr. mark walport, director  of the wellcome trust.
“our challenge now is identifying those patients.”
for example, products that are made without latex, mercury,  pvc and dehp will have the new standardized nomenclature to include attributes  such as: latex-free for products without latex; dehp-free for products without  the plasticizer, dehp (di(2–ethylhexyl) phthalate); mercury-free for  products without mercury; and pvc-free for products without polyvinyl chloride.
as a registered profile, it becomes a standard that may be referenced by the certification commission for health information technology (cchit) as a foundation for certification of ehr systems in the emergency department setting.
the  recalled olives had been distributed to wholesalers, who have marketed them  nationally to restaurants and retail stores.
a 2003 international expert panel convened by the national cancer institute reviewed and assessed research regarding reproductive events and the risk of breast cancer, and concluded that based on existing evidence, induced abortion is not associated with an increased risk of breast cancer.
the consent decree requires the defendants to destroy certain illegal drugs, and bars them from distributing all drugs until they obtain required fda approval and fully comply with cgmp.
(the national average in 2003 was 5.7 for whites and 14.0 for blacks.)
cms issues guidance on hospital emergency services requirements the centers for medicare & medicaid services (cms) issued
it also includes  up-to-date pricing that factor in the contract discounts and tiered pricing  structures offered through novation, vha’s contracting services company.
additionally, weiss pointed out that it  appeared the drug was more effective in thinner people.
one  resulted in a conviction for criminal conflict of interest; the other is still  pending.
“by identifying and developing effective indicators of supply chain performance as well as metrics for evaluating partner performance, ahrmm and asu’s new tool will lead the way toward consistent, transferable performance analysis.”
when bowen  retired, amerinet tapped samolovitch to be ceo and created a new position for  ebert, who had served as president.
the findings are from 2006 data reported to the cdc as part of the agency’s foodborne diseases active surveillance network (also known as foodnet).
according to the egyptian news  agency, mena, she is being treated with the antiviral medication, tamiflu.
small  surgical hospitals may not have separate emergency facilities or, as in the  texas case, a doctor on site at all times during a patient’s recovery.
one-fourth got  care from a doctor who did only one ovarian cancer surgery annually.
the announcement brings to 291 the total number of human cases confirmed by who since 2003, with 172 deaths.
polyp searches  were based on one of two thresholds: those measuring 6 millimeters in diameter  and up, and lesions of any size.
in fact, the johns hopkins researchers say, their study shows that patients who undergo shoulder arthroplasty to relieve chronic and significant pain can expect significantly fewer complications, much shorter hospital stays and less costs than patients undergoing hip or knee replacement.
the research team compared the cardiovascular health over one year of more than 18,000 patients aged over 50 with osteoarthritis.
the longer term effects will not be  known until the drug has been used for 5 to 10 years.
thus when ovarian, endometrial and breast cancer are taken together, use of hrt results in a material increase in these common cancers.”
a study published three years ago found that about 12 percent of men with normal psa readings have cancer.
li-huei  tsai, picower professor of neuroscience in the department of brain and  cognitive sciences and her colleagues got the same results when they gave the  brain atrophied mice a new type of experimental drug called histone deacetylase  (hdac) inhibitors.
the infected person may look and feel healthy between episodes of coughing.
however, niacin is toxic when taken in large  amounts.”
these technologies have been compared before, but the  current analysis relies on the notion that identifying and removing polyps  smaller than 6 millimeters won’t do much to reduce colorectal cancer  cases.
us critical care delivery system in critical condition the demand for critical care services in the united states will soon  outpace the supply of specialists trained in intensive care, a situation that,  if not remedied, may prove fatal for critically ill patients.
this proposed rule contains the first refinements  to the medicare home health prospective payment system (hh pps) since 2000 and  also contains the annual update to the medicare hh pps payment rates.
but, he adds, two vaccines in  the pipeline would cover more pneumococcal strains, including those whose rates  of occurrence are escalating.
tomorrow, a house energy and commerce subcommittee will hold a hearing on the unprecedented spate of recalls.
the simulation also revealed that flexible sigmoidoscopy screenings reduced the rate of cancer by just over 31 percent, while traditional colonoscopy reduced the rate by just over 40 percent.
in contrast, 23% of insured and 49% of uninsured men are avoiding care because of cost.
va patients scored higher on overall quality, chronic disease care and preventive care.
the hypotheses is that hormone withdrawal can rapidly influence the growth of  breast cancer is supported by anecdotal reports of regression of breast cancer
but risk did not differ  significantly by type of hrt preparation used, its constituents, or mode of  administration.
“in this cohort study of young women, we found no association between induced abortion and breast cancer incidence and a suggestion of an inverse association between spontaneous abortion and breast cancer incidence during 10 years of follow-up,” the authors write.
(washington post) medassets to expand revenue cycle suite offering with agreement to  acquire xactimed medassets inc. and xactimed inc. announced  today, they entered into an agreement whereby medassets will acquire xactimed,  a provider of web-based revenue cycle technologies and services to the  healthcare industry.
for more  information, seethis link. april 23, 2007 medicaid programs ‘severely challenged,’  report says in turnabout, infant deaths climb in south fda was aware of dangers to food; outbreaks were not preventable,  officials say fda to consider approval of first ccr5 antagonist against hiv/aids medassets’ 2007 healthcare business summit celebrates successes in healthcare physicians should be able to review performance rates before release antibiotics not necessary to treat most abscesses, even in the  presence of mrsa medicaid programs ‘severely challenged,’ report says state medicaid programs vary wildly in their eligibility criteria,  the scope and quality of their care, and the amount they reimburse physicians  providing it, according to an independent assessment published last week.
“those doctors who did 2 to 10 ovarian cancer surgeries were significantly better than those who did only one,” goff noted.
first it is a partial ingredient in the pet food; second, it is only part of the total feed given to the hogs; third, it is not known to accumulate in the hogs and the hogs excrete melamine in their urine; fourth, even if present in pork, pork is only a small part of the average american diet.
“there are important benefits to screening mammography, but we believe the decision to be screened should be based on an informed conversation between a patient and her physician,” said health policy expert douglas k. owens, md, ms, a researcher with the veterans affairs palo alto health care system and a professor of medicine at the stanford university school of medicine, who chaired the committee that developed the guidelines.
the data are drawn from hospitals that comprise 90 percent of all discharges in the united states and include all patients, regardless of insurance type, as well as the uninsured.
he said gunshot wounds pose  special challenges.
while significant resistance to cephalosporins has not been observed to date, cdc is working with state and local health departments to monitor emerging cephalosporin resistance.
“we have identified the mutations in a few patients with neural tube defects,” said philippe gros, professor of biochemistry at mcgill university in montreal.
ultimately,  the researchers identified four new diabetes-associated variations, as well as  confirmed previous findings that associated six other genetic variants with  increased diabetes risk.
in the past 10 years, the infant mortality rate for blacks in most of the  delta has averaged about 14 per thousand in some counties and more than 20 per  thousand in others.
the first-ever canadian clinical practice guidelines (cpg) on the  management and prevention of obesity in adults and children, published april  10, 2007 in the canadian medical association journal (cmaj), recommend  that waist circumference be measured in all canadian adults, and that a  national surveillance system be developed that incorporates this measurement  along with height and weight.
med1online cms proposes payment reforms for inpatient hospital services in 2008
they said the genes probably hijack blood vessels and make them feed the tumour instead of healthy cells.
even classic dengue, known as “bonebreak fever”, can cause severe flu-like symptoms, excruciating joint pain, high fever, nausea and rashes.
camplylobacter, listeria, shigella and yersinia show a sustained decline in  incidence compared to baseline data from 1996-1998, but most of the decrease  occurred between 1999 and 2002.
premier healthcare alliance launches ‘green’  best-practices web site to help more hospitals share best practices for developing  “green”, or environmentally sound, programs, the premier safety  institute recently launched a new public web site, “green corner.”
“this is based on the false assumption that all nonsteroidal  anti-inflammatory drugs increase the risk of heart attacks.
today’s agreement will help hospitals across the nation meet that challenge.”
a cross-match of the state’s  hepatitis b registry identified the source patient: a 36-year-old woman who had  had teeth extracted hours earlier on the same day in the same office by the  same surgeon and assistants, and receiving the same medications as the index  patient.
the study appears inthe journal of the american college of cardiology .
the reasons for  being judicious in using the tests, especially if done improperly, increasing  the chances of an inaccurate diagnosis, are twofold, doctors say.
last week, the fda notified california state health officials that hogs on a farm in the state had likely eaten feed laced with melamine, an industrial chemical blamed for the deaths of dozens of pets in recent weeks.
o’shaughnessy lost her battle to cancer last october but never gave up  her fight.
pregnancies among overweight women must be classified as high risk pregnancies and appropriate antenatal care should be provided so they receive the optimum care during maternity.”
“that suggests hospitals operating at the high end of their capacity may need to examine safety systems with an eye towards coping with periods of high stress.”
another abstract submitted by dr. noskin and colleagues at the meeting  examined the economic benefit of screening for staph aureus from nasal samples.
“we still think many women will choose to get mammography, and we're supportive of that,” said owens.
in this role mosser serves  as the senior executive responsible for the health system’s supply chain  strategies and operations.
the prevalence of severe obesity continues to surge despite a rapid  increase in the use of bariatric procedures.
the associated genetic  variations can serve as a strong pointer to the region of the genome where the  genetic risk factor resides.
both kidney and liver transplants are on the rise but demand is also increasing and remains unmatched.
professor wray explained: “we suspect one reason preventing sufficient levels of calcium entering the uterus muscles is the high levels of cholesterol in an obese woman’s bloodstream.
(in the case of the va, a doctor  in washington can easily find a blood test from a patient treated five years  ago at the san francisco veterans hospital.)
that happened recently in texas, where a 44-year-old man named steve spivey developed breathing problems after spine surgery.
for  more information see this link.
hospital officials kept  friends and family members sequestered away from the news media.
due in part to inadequate implementation and enforcement, the 1991 americans with disability act (ada) has not lived up to its promise.
the independent organization, formerly known as ecri, unveils  its new logo, with the tagline “the discipline of science.
after 13 weeks, the glycated hemoglobin levels were 0.46 percent lower  in the group that received anakinra.
the research was funded by the national institutes of health (nih).
the program will be expanded into 70  additional msas in 2009.
cms also invited comments on whether current requirements for emergency  service capabilities in hospitals with and without emergency departments should  be strengthened in certain areas, such as the types of clinical personnel that  should be present at all times and their competencies; the type of emergency  response equipment that should be available; and whether hospital emergency  departments should be required to operate 24 hours per day, 7 days per week.
their action items included:  pursuing the development of a unique identifier system to identify a device and  the information associated with that device throughout its lifetime, mandatory  use of electronic reporting for required adverse event reports and revising the  center for devices and radiological health's current system of adverse event  reporting.
“we don’t want to be too punitive, we don’t want to put too  high a standard of affordability, but we don’t want to let too many  people out of a universal requirement.
electronic records are  especially helpful in managing prescription drugs.
medicare, assuming it would improve the outcome, pays an extra $20 for each mammogram read with it.
the goal is to develop a noninvasive blood test for the disease and then bring it to market so other physicians can use it, said geisinger staff scientist glenn s. gerhard, md.
the infected  person may look and feel healthy between episodes of coughing.
a lilly spokesman, phil belt, said the company had rechecked its database and found errors in the original statistics.
stephen sundlof, director of the fda’s center for  veterinary medicine, said a second chemical called cyanuric acid, which is  related to melamine, has also been found in samples of rice protein  concentrate.
“this study points to inflammation as definitely having a role in the (diabetes) story,” said dr. stuart weiss, an endocrinologist at new york university medical center, and a clinical assistant professor of medicine at the new york university school of medicine.
“the problem with physician-owned specialty hospitals is that decision-making is more likely to be driven by financial interest rather than patient interest,” said senator charles e. grassley, (r-ia).
universal red blood cells could relieve blood bank shortages an international team of academic and industry scientists has come up with a feasible way of making universal red blood cells that are stripped of their blood type.
pickhardt is not suggesting that  virtual colonoscopies replace traditional optical screening.
however,  as prof tsai said: “to our knowledge, hdacs have not been used to treat  alzheimer’s disease or dementia.
the specifications have been posted well in advance of the statutory deadline  of july 1, 2007.
(healthday news) massachusetts is poised to become the first state to make it possible for 99 percent of its adults to be covered by health insurance, with an ambitious plan that sets limits for the premiums people would be expected to pay.
a new google-based search engine provides more relevant search results.
an opinion issued by the american college of obstetricians and  gynecologists in 2002 stressed the importance of referral to a gynecologic  oncologist if ovarian cancer is suspected.
obese women who  gave birth vaginally were also found to encounter other problems in child  birth, more than twice as many (6%) experienced excessive bleeding following  delivery compared with normal weight women (3%).
the fda has recently issued warnings for epoetin and another similar drug darbepoetin which is used to treat cancer patients with anemia.
their study of more than 76,000 people showed that those who had taken statins for at least 90 days had a much lower risk of dying from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease or copd, the technical name for emphysema and chronic bronchitis.
the model law, the revised uniform anatomical gift act, updates 1968  legislation adopted by every state to make organ donation procedures uniform  nationwide.
some of the initial e-prescribing standards tested by the pilot project were found to have potential but still need further development if they are to be adopted as e-prescribing standards.
“these findings clearly demonstrate the considerable economic implications of staph aureus infections for hospitals nationwide,” said dr. gary noskin.
located at www.premierinc.com/greencorner, the site showcases hospital and supplier success stories about “green” initiatives that contribute to a safer, healthier community environment.
the cost of ongoing operations will be covered by employer donations  of $6,000 for each hired hero.
diagnoses are currently made on the basis of a  constellation of symptoms that include sadness, fatigue, insomnia and suicidal  thoughts.
iom report: the future of disability in america today more than 40 million americans live with a disability.
the guide now features a larger funnel for instrument insertion and will accept a full range of needle sizes including: 8.5fr, 14-23ga.
in the case of this latest whi analysis, the authors combined the data from the two trials to explore in more detail the previously observed trends in hormone effects by distance from the menopause.
at the same time, many doctors are trained or warned never to admit errors in  case a patient sues.
in the past 2 1/2 years, the va has investigated 20 complaints of security breaches.
“thanks to vic’s vision and perseverance, amerinet developed a restructuring plan that solidly positions the organization for future success and growth.”
as  the number of doctor-owned surgical hospitals grows, federal and state  officials now acknowledge that the government rules may be too vague about the  emergency abilities a hospital must have in place.
“rapid response teams help nurses provide better patient care,  reduce costs and improve hospital culture,” said crystal mullis, rn, bsn,  mba, mha, director of performance improvement at vha.
touro infirmary subsidiaries include woldenberg village, crescent city physicians, touro at home and metro lab and the combined annual supply spend is in excess of $50 million.
regulators are particularly concerned about the very small hospitals that focus on only a few kinds of surgery but perform operations that frequently require an overnight stay.
hire heroes will identify veterans with disabilities who are seeking  career placement services by working with transition centers and va  rehabilitation centers.
conflict-of-interest inquiry may be reopening at nih federal investigators are reviewing the activities of 103 scientists who may have had improper links to pharmaceutical companies while they were employed at the national institutes of health, apparently resurrecting a conflict-of-interest inquiry that many in the agency thought was closed.
“that way, women can increase their thought process about their risk factors,” said dr. nieca goldberg, a cardiologist and associate professor of medicine at new york university, and medical director of the university’s women's heart program.
samolovitch was president of  warrendale, pa-based amerinet central, one of the gpo’s key shareholder  companies.
over time, more women are developing multiple sclerosis (ms) than men, according to research that will be presented at the american academy of neurology’s 59th annual meeting in boston, april 28 – may 5, 2007.
according to  who, potential outcomes include an agreement on ways to increase access to  vaccines, including options for stockpiling vaccines.
unlike most inherited diseases,  huntington’s disease symptoms usually don’t appear until middle  age, leading scientists to wonder what triggers the disease onset and whether  it can be halted, or at least slowed down.
rapid testing  has led to a decreased use of antibiotics in the treatment of children with the  flu, according to a recent study conducted by rochester general hospital and  the university of rochester school of medicine and dentistry.
novation, the health care contracting services company of vha inc. and the university healthsystem consortium (uhc), recently introduced the first product catalog for its private label brand, novaplus.
“diabetes may also be a risk factor for non-amnestic forms of mild cognitive impairment and cognitive impairment, but our analyses need to be repeated in a larger sample.”
the hopkins research team, led by edward mcfarland, m.d., director of the division of adult orthopedics at the johns hopkins hospital, analyzed anonymous patient information provided by the maryland health services cost review commission, the state’s hospital rate-regulator.
this makes it an ideal method to screen elderly  individuals for the earliest indication of this common scourge of late  life.”
“on the other hand, voltaren carries the same risk as the  harmful cox-2 inhibitors bextra and vioxx, which have been taken off the  market.
the 2007 pqri quality measures relate to important processes of care that are linked to improved healthcare quality outcomes.
most striking, here and throughout the country, is the large racial  disparity.
“this approval  provides a new treatment option for the reduction of hepatitis b recurrence in  liver transplant patients with a prior history of this serious disease,”  said jesse goodman, m.d., m.p.h., director of fda’s center for biologics  evaluation and research.
“this study found a dramatically reduced risk of death from copd among statin users and a significantly reduced risk of death from influenza/pneumonia,” the researchers wrote in their report, published in the journalchest.
prosecutors alleged that a medical assistant was told to tamper with  blood samples to justify the hiv/aids therapies and to inject patients with a  salt solution rather than medications.
it provides  web-based performance measurement and benchmarking, real-time surveillance and  best practices to help improve quality and reduce costs.
“the migratory pathways of wild birds don’t correspond with the movement of the genomes that we sequenced,” said salzberg.
for taxpayers, the competitive bidding program means potentially significant savings for medicare.
the setbacks have raised questions about the impact of cuts in welfare and medicaid and of poor access to doctors, and, many doctors say, the growing epidemics of obesity, diabetes and hypertension among potential mothers, some of whom tip the scales here at 300 to 400 pounds.
out of more than 200 patients treated for dengue infection at these sites  over two years, less than 1 percent fit all four criteria necessary to meet the  who definition of dhf.
that document was not submitted to  the agency.
twenty-five percent smoked cigarettes.
medical records and blood tests of 25 patients operated on after the source patient showed that 16 (64 percent) were vaccinated and immune to hbv.
previous studies have suggested that ibuprofen interferes with the effects of  aspirin.
migrants and tourists, including the many thousands of  americans expected for spring break this year, carry new strains of the virus  across national borders, where mosquitoes can spread the disease.
in the past 10 years, the infant mortality rate for blacks in most of the delta has averaged about 14 per thousand in some counties and more than 20 per thousand in others.
the emergency care functional profile is not only critical for the  integration of emergency departments (ed) into the developing national health  information network, but is also needed for handling regional disasters  such as hurricane katrina.
michael payne, outreach coordinator for the western institute of food  safety at the university of california at davis's school of veterinary  medicine, said he thinks that there is little risk of people becoming ill by  eating pork from pigs that ate melamine-laced feed.
however, payments would increase for hospitals serving more  severely ill patients and decrease for serving patients who are less severely  ill.
in addition, cdc is working with the world health organization to strengthen international efforts to monitor for the emergence of cephalosporin resistance and with government and industry partners to identify and evaluate promising new drug regimens.
offering hospitals to utilize diagnostix’s industry-driven pharmacy  technology fda causes unnecessary scare about common painkillers
“given widespread concerns about antibiotic misuse and antibiotic resistance, this could change how we treat this very common emergency department complaint for both adults and children.”
difficult births in obese women due to uterus failure
“to do this right means we’re walking a tight rope,” kingsdale said.
the study also produced some evidence that strengthens the case that humans have had an impact on the movement of the flu out of asia.
he originally hailed from salt lake city-based intermountain health care, another key amerinet shareholder.
suppliers have the opportunity to reduce business costs and introduce new products to hospitals, faster, with a pdu in place.
“it matters who does the surgery,” said dr. ilana cass,  director of the gynecologic oncology fellowship program at cedars-sinai medical  center, los angeles, and a gynecologic oncologist.
in the other 5.7 million stays,  patients were admitted for another condition but they also were diagnosed as  having a mental health or substance abuse disorder.
the ovhc member organizations include  adena health system, chillicothe; fairfield medical center, lancaster; holzer  health systems, gallipolis; and marietta memorial hospital, marietta.
the demand for critical care services in the united states will soon outpace the supply of specialists trained in intensive care, a situation that, if not remedied, may prove fatal for critically ill patients.
there is clearly a component to  obesity that is genetic.”
vibrio infections, which are often related to the consumption of raw  shellfish like oysters, have increased to the highest level since foodnet began  conducting surveillance.
since two of the drugs  are already approved for clinical use, this should speed things up.
according to perl, a professor of medicine and pathology at the johns hopkins  university school of medicine, patients found to be infected or to be a carrier  before infection has set in are placed in isolation for the remainder of their  stay.
but at the fourth,  a major urban teaching hospital with consistently high occupancy rates,  exceeding 100 percent for more than three months, workload increases and higher  patient-to-nurse ratios were associated with more adverse events.
“we have confirmed china’s cases,” said who spokesman gregory hartl, “because if the national laboratory has been certified as being able to do h5n1 testing and it undergoes periodic review, then we will accept their national certification or report.”
the surge of interest, galvin said, “is driven by compounding health cost increases at three times the general inflation rate, plus the entrance of wal-mart and other retailers” that are beginning to feel the pain of out-of-control increases in costs.
accuprice, a pharmacy-auditing tool, takes unique provider contract price files and audits the distribution invoice file to identify price variances.
among these younger women, the risk of breast cancer varies greatly, from less than 1 percent for a 40-year-old woman with no risk factors to 6 percent for a 49-year-old woman with multiple risk factors, which include family history of breast cancer, older age at the birth of her first child and younger age at the onset of menstruation.
in a commentary published by trials, an online journal of biomed  central, furberg says the fda has failed to recognize current scientific  evidence when it made decisions on the safety of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory  drugs (nsaids) that are often used to treat the pain or inflammation from  arthritis.
the researchers concluded that: “dialysis facility organizational status  and ownership are associated with variation in epoetin dosing in the united  states.
the study appears in the april 24, 2007 issue ofplos  medicine.
according to the american cancer society, ovarian cancer is diagnosed in about 24,000 women in the united states each year, and 14,300 die annually from the disease.
this rule proposes to pay for nrs based on 5 severity groups, similar to the proposed clinical case-mix model, to more accurately reflect home health agency costs for nrs.
the meeting is free to all  providers.
“ray will be responsible for working with our eastern region sales representatives, providing them with training, direction and sales support.
the ghx contract commitment module addresses these issues by  automating what has traditionally been a highly manual process and by enabling  manufacturers, distributors, gpos, and healthcare providers to agree on key  contract terms and conditions up front.
“the increased intention to prescribe after these sales visits is  remarkable, and is in fact greater than has been observed in other  studies,” said lead author michael a. steinman, md, a staff physician at  the san francisco va medical center (sfvamc).
two of those sublineages have recently  reassorted.
who can confirm that indonesia has had 81 avian flu cases since 2003 and  63 deaths, but news reports put the total at 94, with 74 deaths.
small businesses, a significant portion of device manufacturers, would see additional benefits under the proposal.
few advocate  a wholesale shift to government-directed medicine, but most are seeking broad  changes in the employer-subsidized health system, which they regard as  unsustainable in its current form.
the overall jump in mississippi meant that 65 more babies  died in 2005 than in the previous year, for a total of 481.
it’s with this spirit that the long island chapter for central service recognizes and applauds parseghian on his career goals.
“ninety-nine percent of the people who have a shoulder replacement for arthritis get pain relief and say that they wish they had done it sooner,” said mcfarland.
“statins are known to have an effect on the body’s immune system,  but what that is exactly, and how many statin users it affects, is still not  widely understood.”
several states have mandated changes in school menus, increased physical education requirements and begun reporting students’ body mass index scores to parents.
stockholders are therefore expected to receive $3.15 per share, subject to certain post-closing adjustments.
early detection would likely help patients better manage the disease and could even save lives.
“with these newer technologies, we don’t.”
“the greatest challenge for hospitals today is improving quality of care while safely reducing costs.
future research should address whether hdac inhibitors will be effective for treating neurodegenerative diseases.”
the foundation plans to invest in programs to improve access to healthy  food, encourage the development of safe play spaces, increase research to  enhance understanding of obesity and prod governments into adopting policies to  address the problem, among other things.
the company has a diversion program and a dea-approved suspicious-order monitoring program in place to identify customers who are suspected of inappropriately selling products sold to them by amerisourcebergen.
infants with whooping cough were most likely infected by the people they live with, according to a multi-country study led by researchers from the university of north carolina at chapel hill school of public health.
the law required all residents to get health insurance or face a fine  or tax penalty.
professor sue wray, said, “our research shows overweight women  are at considerably higher risk of having to undergo an emergency caesarean  section birth and find labor a more difficult experience than normal weight  women.
besides the f.d.a. inquiry, lilly is facing federal  and state investigations into the way it marketed and promoted zyprexa.
an estimated one in six americans suffer depression at some  point in their lives.
china alters organ transplant laws china published new rules governing human organ transplants in its latest  effort to clean up a business critics say has little regard for medical ethics.
some  suddenly feel very exhausted with minimal activity.
april 26, 2007 nejm:
“there are probably some patients that can benefit a great deal  by having their blood pressure lowered within that first 24 hours after a  stroke,” fagan said.
consorta will also provide educational and analytical programs and manage member compliance for its shareholders.
the prime benefit for patients when surgeons use cas is shorter  post-surgery recovery time.
the longer term effects will not be known until the drug has been used for 5 to 10 years.
the single payment amounts established through competitive bidding will be lower than the current fee schedule amounts for the items.
cutter said the largest increase in the ratio has been for  those whose ms started at younger ages.
“with budget builder, hospitals have fast access to real cost information that will ensure that budgets are more accurate.
potential applications and benefits include: wound dressings that are soft  and have comfortable stretch; knit-like stretchable gown sleeves and cuffs for  use in protective and clean room apparel; hygiene side panels for diapers and  adult incontinence garments that are less irritating and fit better; elastic  bandages and low power wound care sleeves that may be less irritating than  conventional materials; elastic protective covers that fit better, reducing the  number of sizes needed; elastic interlinings that are resistant to deformation;  and elastic composites that are versatile and stretchable.
in an accompanying editorial (use  of epoetin in chronic renal failure), dr daniel coyne, professor of medicine at  washington university school of medicine, in st. louis, said that the  authorities disagree on what the optimal level of hemoglobin in the blood  should be.
mdufma ii would foster the development of innovative in vitro diagnostic tests by issuing new industry guidance on important emerging issues and reviewing some low-risk devices to determine whether any of them could be exempted from the need for product review.
older companies, for example, are more likely to welcome government help on coverage for workers who leave before they are eligible for medicare and may find they cannot afford insurance.
extensive data on patient flow and resource utilization is generated through the software’s reporting engine to assist perioperative departments to further analyze department utilization.
a 2-year-old female from menia governorate developed symptoms april 3 and the next day was admitted to a hospital where she is in stable condition.
“the effectiveness of blunt-tip suture needles for preventing needle stick injuries has been widely reported,” said niosh director john howard, m.d. the shib, available on the osha web site at http://www.osha.gov/dts/shib/shib032307.html and on the niosh web site at http://www.cdc.gov/niosh/docs/2007-132/, describes the hazards of sharp-tip suture needles and presents evidence of the effectiveness of blunt-tip needles in decreasing injuries.
the proposed rule would also require physician-owned hospitals to  require physician owners who are members of the hospital’s medical staff  to disclose their ownership to the patients they refer to the  hospital.
timing is key in treating the flu, said dr. greg poland of the mayo clinic in rochester, mn.
researchers  recruited 5,115 people from 18 to 30 in 1985 and 1986 and followed them with  physical examinations 2, 5, 7, 10 and 15 years later.
yet in 2003,  just 55% of women in this group said they’d had a mammogram in the  previous year.
context plays an important role in deciding when to use the test, said dr.  henry bernstein of the children’s hospital at dartmouth in new hampshire  and also a member of the american academy of pediatrics’ committee on  infectious diseases.
it is becoming more and more crucial that health care providers understand the clinical spectrum of dengue and its diagnosis.
instead, the group suggests other screening methods, including blood stool tests; a barium enema combined with x-rays; a flexible sigmoidoscopy and traditional optical colonoscopy.
the research suggests obesity impairs the  ability of the uterus to contract sufficiently in order to dilate the cervix  and deliver the baby.
under desi, fda evaluated the evidence of effectiveness for thousands of drug products previously approved for safety only, including those products marketed under the name of tigan containing trimethobenzamide.
among high risk patients not taking aspirin, the rate of heart attacks or strokes was higher for those on the cox -2 inhibitor than it was for those on naproxen, but no higher than for those on ibuprofen.
those pilot sites were achieve healthcare information  technologies, llp, eden prairie, mn; brigham and women’s hospital,  boston, ma; rand corporation, santa monica, ca; surescripts, llc, alexandria,  va; and university hospitals health system, cleveland, oh.
a special report in the april 19, 2007 edition of the new england journal of medicine concludes that the sharp decline in breast-cancer incidence in 2003, followed by a relative stabilization at a lower rater in 2004, is most likely related to the first report of the women’s health initiative (whi) (jama 2002; 288:321-333.
at least 17 other states, plus the district and the u.s. virgin islands, are considering the legislation.
as far as medical practice is concerned, “for therapy, we are not  sure that it will have a great impact at this time,” gros said.
“among cardiovascular risk factors, type 2 diabetes mellitus has been consistently related to a higher risk of alzheimer’s disease,” the authors write.
if the segment is too large, the gene produces a faulty protein that has a destructive effect in the brain.
boomers tend to report more stress than earlier  generations, from their jobs, their commutes, taking care of their parents and  their kids, all of which can take a physical toll, which is compounded by  having less support from extended families and communities, experts say.
the announcement was made during the general  session of the medassets’ healthcare business summit in las vegas, nv.
companies hiring veterans are eligible for a tax credit of $4,800 per hired hero and are entitled to a tax deduction for donations made to the program.
nationally recognized dr. gene schneller, professor and director of the health sector supply chain initiatives at the w. p. carey school of business at arizona state university, will also participate, presenting and accepting questions regarding his current research.
meanwhile, the approval and availability of this vaccine will enhance national readiness and the nation’s ability to protect those at increased risk of exposure.
to conduct a genome-wide association study, researchers use two  groups of participants: a large group of people with the disease being studied  and a large group of otherwise similar people without the disease.
associations representing various  healthcare professions will be invited to participate in benchmarking and  performance improvement analysis on a frequent basis, allowing for longitudinal  analysis of supply chain performance improvement in the field of healthcare.
in the study released at the recent iars, conducted by m. r. macknet, md  and a team of researchers at loma linda university's department of  anesthesiology, fifteen pediatric pacu patients were monitored with masimo's  arm technology consisting of an adhesive bioacoustic sensor applied to the  patient’s neck and connected to a breathing frequency monitor prototype.
“if they do have above-optimal levels, even slightly,” she added, “they might want to make lifestyle changes to reduce their risk.”
amerisourcebergen receives dea order to temporarily halt distribution of controlled substances from orlando facility amerisourcebergen corporation announced that the u.s. drug enforcement administration (dea) has temporarily suspended the orlando, fl distribution center’s (dc), license to distribute dea controlled substances and listed chemicals.
this work may also be relevant to research on other diseases, such as  alzheimer’s and parkinson’s, in which oxidative lesions are  believed to play a role.
“with mammography, we have  multiple studies showing what happens to mortality rates if you get this versus  if you don’t,” dr. fletcher said.
“we have identified the mutations in a few patients with neural tube  defects,” said philippe gros, professor of biochemistry at mcgill  university in montreal.
fda sometimes orders  post-approval studies to address remaining issues such as the product's  performance once it becomes more widely available or is used over a longer  period of time.
virtual  colonoscopy also had the added benefit of dramatically reducing the need for  unnecessary polyp removal.
they analyzed the data using statistical regression models to  examine the mean epoetin dose and dose adjustment by profit, chain, and  affiliation status of the centres that patients attended.
the healthcare debate is heating up as candidates polish their positions for next year’s presidential primaries, and as democrats in congress assert their newfound power.
shuji hatakeyama, m.d., ph.d., of the university of tokyo, japan, and colleagues examined the prevalence and transmissibility of influenza b viruses with reduced sensitivity to neuraminidase inhibitors in japan, where zanamivir and oseltamivir are now used more extensively than anywhere else in the world.
physicians should consider  using alternative devices.
“scientific studies point to  clinically important differences among the non-selective nsaids, which the fda  has not recognized.
further, the company lacked an effective quality control unit and failed to establish reliable expiration dates for products.
for more informationclick here or click here.
the functional  model is structured to allow vendors to implement a specific profile for  real-world settings, such as the emergency department, and users to purchase a  system that conforms to the profile.
over the past decade, unusually warm winters and large populations of mice have also been responsible for outbreaks in new mexico and nearby states of a related illness, hantavirus pulmonary syndrome.
heart disease also often takes place in women differently than it does in men, goldberg added.
migrants and tourists, including the many thousands of americans expected for spring break this year, carry new strains of the virus across national borders, where mosquitoes can spread the disease.
the phenomenon has been  increasing since the mid-1990's, coinciding with greater acceptance of the  therapeutic benefits of transplantation and with progress in the efficacy of  the medicines, immuno-suppressants, used to prevent the body’s rejection  of a transplanted organ.
the viruses can cause a serious, and sometimes deadly, disease known as hemorrhagic fever with renal syndrome, or hfrs.
“there are a total of 10 patients where we found the mutations.
this limits the options available to treat gonorrhea, one of the most common sexually transmitted diseases in the u.s.
resistant cases were seen across the u.s. in the first half of  2006 (in 25 of the 26 cities in the analysis), and sharp increases occurred  from 2004 to 2006 in several cities, including philadelphia (from 1.2 percent  to 26.6 percent of gonorrhea cases) and miami (from 2.1 percent to 15.3  percent).
right now, the only way to definitely diagnose the disease is through a liver biopsy.
fda announces recommendations to reauthorize medical device user fee program the u.s. food and drug administration (fda) proposed recommendations to congress for reauthorizing the medical device user fee and modernization act (mdufma ii), which, if adopted, would help to ensure that safe and effective medical devices get to patients in a timely manner.
“you see it in the cherry-picking of patients, and with policies  that instruct hospital staff to call 911 for the local community hospital if  emergency care is needed,” said grassley, a ranking member of the senate  committee on finance, which oversees medicare.
as a next step to  their study wichmann highlighted the need for more inquiry into a clinical  definition of dengue.
suppliers that wish to furnish competitively bid items in a cba  will be required to submit bids to furnish those items.
to make their discoveries, researchers used a relatively new,  comprehensive strategy known as a genome-wide association study.
additionally, such health  information technologies promote affordability by allowing physicians to know  which medications are covered by their patients’ part d plans.”
unlike traditional colonoscopy, the virtual method is faster, involves no sedation, no post-procedure recovery, and no risk of invasive complications such as abdominal bleeding or life-threatening bowel perforation.
“severe disease can be present in patients who do not fulfill all four dhf criteria.”
the study is published in the april 12 issue of thenew england journal of medicine.
according to pfizer, these trial results have been accepted for presentation at a forthcoming hiv conference.
one possible  explanation is the development of cases of disease in foods that previously  were not associated with these diseases, such as spinach and peanut butter.
(cnn) medicare announces competitive acquisition program for certain dme, prosthetics, orthotics, and supplies
mieres recommends taking small  steps that lead to big ones, walking 10 minutes a day and increasing that to 30  minutes, or eating an apple for a snack instead of a candy bar.
while hemorrhagic dengue is increasing around the developing world, the  problem is most dramatic in the americas, according to the centers for disease  control and prevention.
karin b. michels, sc.d., ph.d., and colleagues at brigham and women’s  hospital, harvard medical school and harvard school of public health, boston,  examined the association between abortion and breast cancer in 105,716 women  who were part of the nurses’ health study ii (nhsii).
(washington post) to  read the original article see this link.
but less than 10 percent have systems that store all necessary data,  allow electronic ordering of tests and provide clinical reminders.
the fy 2008 acute care hospital inpatient prospective payment system (ipps) proposed rule would require a hospital to notify all patients in writing if a doctor of medicine or doctor of osteopathy is not present in the hospital 24 hours a day, seven days per week.
although the health  system would save money repackaging this product from direct bulk shipments,  that was not the total reason this license was so important.
prof clausen and colleagues conclude that “the enzymatic  conversion processes we describe hold promise for achieving the goal of  producing universal rbcs, which would improve the blood supply while enhancing  the safety of clinical transfusions”.
many hospitals have multiple paper charts for each patient, one for hospital stays, another for clinic visits and others for specialty services such as physical therapy.
study links faulty dna repair to huntington’s disease onset huntington’s disease, an inherited neurodegenerative disorder  that affects roughly 30,000 americans, is incurable and fatal.
“the annual capital budgeting effort is painful for hospitals, which have been forced to develop budgets with inaccurate or out-of-date information using labor-intensive processes,” said nik fincher, senior director of capital asset services for vha.
epoetin (marketed as epogen and procrit) is prescribed to kidney patients as part of their dialysis treatment, depending on how anemic they are and the level of hemoglobin their doctor is aiming to get them to.
performance data should be used for public reporting or to determine physician payment only after data are fully adjusted for case-mix composition, including age, severity of illness, co-morbidities, and other features of a physician’s practice and patient population that may influence the results.
civco’s needle guidance systems utilize a two-part system consisting of a custom reusable biopsy bracket and a disposable snap-on needle guide.
the institute of medicine (iom) was asked to assess the current situation  and provide recommendations for improvement, which culminated in the report  “the future of disability in america”.
the healthcare debate is heating up as candidates polish their positions  for next year’s presidential primaries, and as democrats in congress  assert their newfound power.
the scientists tested  blood pressure, cholesterol and serum glucose levels and recorded body mass  index.
in a  joint statement released yesterday, energy and commerce chairman john d. dingell  (d-mi) asserted that “nih bungled the investigation the first time  around,” and ranking republican joe l. barton (tx) expressed hope that  the inquiry “will finally sort things out so everyone can have confidence  that the public's interest is being fully served.”
glycated hemoglobin, also referred to as glycosylated hemoglobin or a1c, is a test that measures the average amount of glucose in the blood for about three months.
stephen kovach, healthmark’s director of clinical  education, said “i have worked with ray for years, as a counterpart  managing cs departments, as a colleague on various ashcsp and iahcsmm boards  and activities and most recently on various aami sterilization standards  committees.
everybody’s problem,  the growing cost of health coverage, can be felt differently depending on the  size of a company and whether it has promised health benefits to retirees.
this can lead to  higher prescribing.”
even with no  polyp size threshold, virtual colonoscopy still came in at more than 20 percent  cheaper.
his view was echoed  by gerald l. andriole jr., chief of urologic surgery at washington university  school of medicine, who said that “if the data hold up, this marker will  be a substantial improvement over psa.”
as of april 26, sites in the following states are believed to have received and used contaminated product: california, kansas, new york, north carolina, south carolina and utah.
the american  cancer society recommends annual tests for women 40 and older.
mcmurray’s study shows that the inserted segment grows when cells  try to remove oxidative lesions, which are caused by byproducts of the oxygen  we breathe.
the studies showed that arcoxia caused nearly three times as many heart attacks, strokes and deaths as naproxen, a popular pain pill sold as aleve, but was no more effective in curing pain.
the seattle team analyzed hospital data from up to nine states for the  period between 1999 to 2002, looking at factors associated with comprehensive  surgical care.
a study commissioned by  the department of health and human services last fall reported that one-quarter  of american physicians use some sort of electronic record-keeping in their  practices.
suppliers that wish to furnish competitively bid items in a cba will be required to submit bids to furnish those items.
the rand health study found that based on self-reported height and weight, which tends to understate actual bmi, 3 percent of americans are already severely obese.
available now, this innovative technology is latex-free and contains no elastomeric polymers or chemical additives, resulting in a versatile fabric that can meet a variety of industry needs.
the researchers found that among infants with pertussis for whom the source case could be identified, parents were the primary source of pertussis in infants, followed by siblings (16 percent), aunts/uncles (10 percent), friends/cousins (10 percent), grandparents (6 percent) and part-time caregivers (2 percent).
amerinet inc. announces its agreement with vendormate for vendor  credentialing and compliance monitoring services.
multi-angle brackets offer professionals different angles for needle placement.
these include standards used to convey structured  patient instructions, a terminology to describe clinical drugs, and messages  that convey prior authorization information.
the cost of ongoing operations will be covered by employer donations of $6,000 for each hired hero.
all people over 50 are encouraged to undergo a regular colonoscopy once every 10 years, or either a barium enema or a flexible sigmoidoscopy (with or without a yearly blood test) once every five years.
“government grants for biomedical research  in general, including obesity research, are being funded at the lowest levels  i’ve seen in my career,” said dr. david ludwig, director of the  optimal weight for life clinic at children’s hospital boston and author  of a new book, “ending the food fight.”
ovarian cancer is the  fourth most common cancer in uk women, with about 6,700 developing the  condition and 4,600 dying from it every year.
at the time, the sec sought more than $200 million in penalties, and scrushy faced the possibility of years in prison.
gold standard tests administered at world-class research facilities, such as penn, have a 90-percent accuracy rate.
the researchers used data from the us renal data  system and found 159,522 adult medicare-eligible, end-stage renal disease  patients who were receiving hemodialysis at various centres during november and  december 2004.
among the 6 large  chain facilities with a similar patient case-mix, the average dose of epoetin  ranged from 17,832 units per week at chain 5 (nonprofit facilities with a mean  hematocrit level of 34.6 percent) to 24,986 units per week at chain 2  (for-profit facilities with a mean hematocrit level of 36.5 percent).
they were taking either high dose (400 mg a day) lumiracoxib, a  type of drug known as a cyclo-oxygenase (cox-2) inhibitor, or ibuprofen (800 mg  three times a day), or naproxen (500 mg twice daily), both of which are  traditional non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (nsaids).
the team from the university of liverpool’s physiology department found that obese women were 3.5 times more likely to require a caesarean for slow labor than normal weight women.
universal red blood cells could relieve blood bank shortages an international team of academic and industry scientists has come up with  a feasible way of making universal red blood cells that are stripped of their  blood type.
effective contract management requires that all authorized parties to a contract share accurate information related to factors such as tier pricing and commitments, customer eligibility, and effective contract dates in a timely manner.
in addition, the combination of masimo rainbow set pulse oximetry and masimo arm should assist hospitals in being compliant with new american society of anesthesia (asa) guidelines for management of patients at risk of obstructive sleep apnea (osa) by providing an accurate and reliable combination of oxygen saturation and respiration rate monitoring.
learn about efforts to control supply chain costs and processes in the industry, and how one hospital is already seeing results.
cms proposes payment changes for medicare home health services the centers for medicare & medicaid services (cms) proposed a rule designed to ensure more appropriate payment for services provided by medicare home health agencies, while establishing incentives for more efficient care for medicare beneficiaries.
the cdc says there’s no drug to treat hemorrhagic dengue, but proper treatment, including rest, fluids and pain relief, can reduce death rates to about 1 percent.
this tool will allow hospitals and providers to compare their performance with organizations of similar size and operation.
since the initial agreement in 2001, the consortium has achieved nearly $6 million in cost savings through amerinet’s comprehensive portfolio of contracts and solution-based programs.
consumers may also report illnesses associated with consumption of  these olives to the nearest fda district offices.
“every study  we looked at came to the same conclusion: abscesses treated with incision and  drainage alone healed at the same rate as abscesses treated with incision,  drainage and antibiotics,” said dr. everett.
therapy (hrt), according to an article published online and in an upcoming  edition ofthe lancet.
his dedication to the healthcare field and community service has won him international recognition and several prestigious awards, including iahcsmm presidential citation subject matter expert.
neither fda nor usda has uncovered any evidence of harm to the swine from the contaminated feed.
while not definitive, the data  sketch a startlingly different picture than the popular image of  health-obsessed workout fanatics who know their antioxidants from their trans  fats and look 10 years younger than their age.
the ehr system  functional model is versatile, adaptable, and applicable across the continuum  of care.
no illnesses have been reported to date in connection with this recall.
the outbreaks point to a need to change the way  the agency does business, said robert e. brackett, director of the fda’s  food-safety arm, which is responsible for safeguarding 80 percent of the  nation’s food supply.
the scientists tested blood pressure, cholesterol and serum glucose levels and recorded body mass index.
the vaccine could be used in the event the  current h5n1 avian virus were to develop the capability to efficiently spread  from human to human, resulting in the rapid spread of the disease across the  globe.
but the very catheters, intravenous lines and  invasive medical procedures used to keep children alive are also putting them  at higher risk of bacterial infection.
the times disclosed the existence of the  document in an article last december.
yet a major obstacle needs to be cleared first.
for a summary of a who consultation on clinical aspects of human infection with avian influenza see this link.
but the regulations were packed with shortcomings, a human rights group said  saturday, including a failure to address what it called the “crucial  issue” of the procurement of organs from executed prisoners.
new urgency in debating healthcare
some progress has been made since the release of the two previous reports: the growth of assistive and “mainstream” electronic technologies allows many people to interact more easily with their environments; and advances in public health and medicine have contributed to reduced incidences of certain injuries, developmental disorders, and other potentially disabling health conditions.
continuing to use the current oasis instrument ensures that  providers would avoid any additional burden of reporting through a separate  mechanism and any related costs associated with the development and testing of  a new reporting mechanism.
the study, funded by grants from the institut pasteur foundation, sanofi  pasteur and sanofi pasteur-msd, was conducted over a 20-month period in four  countries, canada, france, germany and the united states.
consumers should discard these products or return them to the point of purchase.
“we also need to ask the general questions  about what women do differently than men, such as use of hair dye and use of  cosmetics that may block vitamin d absorption,” he said.
in addition, this trial is the first to look at the quantity of mrsa  in the nares of different patient populations.
fda urges  consumers who are using suppositories containing trimethobenzamide, and who  have questions or concerns, to contact their healthcare provider.
for more information, seethis link april 13, 2007 cdc report highlights growing foodborne illness challenges; e. coli o157, salmonella, vibrio cause concern cdc changes recommendations for gonorrhea treatment due to drug resistance; few treatment options remain major genetic study identifies clearest link yet to obesity risk materials managers invited to attend healthcare supplier & provider institute meeting for free; new provider only session needle guidance now available for siemens’ new high-density transducer rf technologies offers free sensatec bed and chair alarms as part of trade-in program h ire heroes program launched to place veterans with disabilities in healthcare jobs hire heroes, a program designed to help veterans with disabilities find careers in the healthcare industry, was launched today by health careers foundation, a non-profit healthcare education organization.
researchers from the children’s hospital of philadelphia and the university of pennsylvania reported on two adults and two adolescents who suffered toxic side effects from taking large amounts of niacin, also known as vitamin b3, in mistaken attempts to foil urine drug tests.
under the agreement,  broadlane will provide touro infirmary with national and local strategic supply  chain services for consumable supplies and equipment, pharmaceuticals and  purchased services.
depending on the test used and if conducted  properly, they register about a 70 percent accuracy rate in diagnosing whether  a patient has the flu and are about 90 percent specific in figuring out what  type of flu it is, the cdc said.
using the icf would help standardize how agencies describe and measure different aspects of disability, which would improve the clarity and comparability of research findings and strengthen the base of scientific knowledge that guides public policies and health practices.
amerinet applies the resources necessary to resolve variances and works with the distributor to issue the necessary credits.
“it is clearly a multigene situation, where alterations in more than one gene are responsible for the effect,” gros said.
“‘green corner’ provides a valuable resource for  healthcare professionals seeking anecdotes about how their peers in the  hospital industry are tackling important community environmental issues, both  simple and complex,” said gina pugliese, rn, vice president of the  premier safety institute.
in recent  months, they assisted millions of beneficiaries with finding drug plans suited  to their individual needs.
josé a. luchsinger, m.d., and  colleagues at columbia university medical center, ny, studied 918 individuals  older than 65 years (average age 75.9) who did not have mild cognitive disorder  or dementia when they enrolled between 1992 and 1994.
so far, who has not yet received samples from indonesia.
“influenza viruses evolve rapidly and nimbly, which compels ongoing investigation of antiviral therapies that use alternative mechanisms of action and target different points in the viral life cycle.
boomers tend to report more stress than earlier generations, from their jobs, their commutes, taking care of their parents and their kids, all of which can take a physical toll, which is compounded by having less support from extended families and communities, experts say.
they can’t tell the difference between a tumour that won't spread and one that will.
federal and state officials say they are now reviewing the guidelines to toughen the rules and make them more specific.
the  novaplus catalog will be produced annually.
carescience works with  hospitals to use comparative data as the basis for implementing clinical  quality improvement plans that optimize patient outcomes and operational  performance, increase staff efficiency and reduce costs.
steinman speculates  that the real effectiveness of pharmaceutical sales visits lies primarily in  the “relationship-building” that occurs during those visits.
from 1991 through 2005, the rate for blacks  hovered at around 5 per thousand.
physical and other barriers still exist in many places, even hospitals and medical offices.
(washington post) contrary to widespread belief, total surgical replacement of arthritic shoulder joints carries no greater risk of complications than replacement of other major joints, a johns hopkins study suggests.
early detection  would likely help patients better manage the disease and could even save lives.
“the term  ‘dengue hemorrhagic fever’ puts undue emphasis on bleeding,”  he added, noting that plasma leakage and shock can occur without it.
advocates for poor people had wanted  lower costs for more residents.
“while we looked at only four hospitals, which limits the ability to generalize these findings, the hospital where we found a relationship between working conditions and adverse events was disproportionately crowded for much of the study period,” said study co-author eran bendavid, md.
the proposed ncd opens a 30-day  comment period.
compliance with cgmp is necessary to  ensure that drugs have the requisite safety, identity, strength, quality, and  purity.
these totals include all  countries except indonesia, which since january has not shared virus samples  from infected people with who collaborating centers and does not have a public  health laboratory that who has certified to confirm human cases of the h5n1  strain of avian flu.
more than sixty hospitals have already  successfully used the tool to activate hundreds of contracts negotiated by  healthtrust purchasing group with medtronic, boston scientific corporation, and  st. jude medical.
the concern, critics say, is that federal grant money not go to  scientists who may be predisposed to get results that favor their drug company  sponsors.
people who earn more than $50,001  would not be given a cap on insurance costs.
the new  bleach-free, alcohol-based spray is formulated to kill 99.999 percent of germs  on contact and does not dry out hands or leave a sticky, greasy residue.
future research should address whether  hdac inhibitors will be effective for treating neurodegenerative  diseases.”
as the first wave of baby boomers edges toward retirement, a growing body of evidence suggests that they may be the first generation to enter their golden years in worse health than their parents.
like  malaria, dengue is transmitted to humans by mosquitoes.
it would allow about 52,000 more low-income people to qualify for free or  cheaper coverage.
dengue is driven by longer rainy seasons some blame on climate change, as well as disposable plastic packaging and other trash that collects water.
as the supply chain advisor (sca) database becomes populated by these new attributes, sca users will be trained so they can begin to use the new search capabilities.
in the event this temporary suspension is not quickly resolved,  alternative arrangements will be made for customers served by the orlando  distribution center, so they will not be inconvenienced.
this calls for more intensive efforts to increase the  vaccination rate in people at risk of coronary heart disease.
the investigators could only speculate that there might have been a lapse in clean-up procedures after the source patient, leaving an area contaminated with her blood.
the rapid diagnostic tests can take anywhere from five to 30 minutes to  come up with a diagnosis.
for example, although people age 80 and older comprised  only 5 percent of the u.s. population in 2004, they accounted for nearly 21  percent of all hospital stays for these conditions, principally for dementia.
consumers should discard these products or  return them to the point of purchase.
physical and other barriers still  exist in many places, even hospitals and medical offices.
several samples also contained the mutation associated with the form of the “bird flu” that caused several human deaths in 2006.
“electronic access will  give the public an opportunity to see progress being made on a company’s  post-market commitments,” said daniel schultz, m.d., director of  fda’s center for devices and radiological health.
the proposed home health market basket increase for cy 2008 is 2.9%.
two antiviral  drugs, zanamivir and oseltamivir, which are a type of drugs known as  neuraminidase inhibitors, have been effective against influenza and are used  extensively.
updates december 2009 november 2009 october 2009 september 2009 august 2009  july 2009 june 2009 may 2009 april 2009 march 2009 february 2009 january 2009  2007 updates december 2007 november 2007 october 2007 september 2007 august 2007 july 2007 june 2007 may 2007 april 2007 march 2007  february 2007 january 2007 2012 updates february 2012 january 2012 2010 updates december 2010  november 2010 october 2010 september 2010 august 2010 july 2010 june 2010
some of the  initial e-prescribing standards tested by the pilot project were found to have  potential but still need further development if they are to be adopted as  e-prescribing standards.
steve miller, chief executive of chemnutra, a las vegas-based importer of nutritional and pharmaceutical chemicals, said he suspects that the contamination was intentional.
officemax was also recognized as this year’s strategic sponsor of the healthcare business summit.
federal funding agencies should invest more in the development,  testing, and dissemination of promising interventions that will help people  maintain their independence and ability to function in community life.
although the survey guidance issued today applies to all hospitals, it also implements one element of thestrategic and implementing plan for specialty hospitals that cms reported to congress in august of 2006, in accordance with the provisions of section 5006 of the deficit reduction act of 2005.
(the associated press)
though the study’s accuracy rate is  under that 90-percent figure, it still means the test potentially could have  great value to physicians and patients and their families, and the results are  particularly significant for patients who have limited access to teaching  hospitals, where they may undergo six to 12 months of evaluation for a  diagnosis.
the top five programs, in order of rank,  were in massachusetts, nebraska, vermont, alaska and wisconsin.
for cy 2008, cms proposes to evaluate home health care quality by continuing to rely on the submission of oasis assessments.
the program, which is paid for with private money, buses nearly all pregnant blacks in sharkey and a small neighboring county to pre- and postnatal classes.
“humans carry chickens between many of the countries in our study, often transporting them across great distances.
democratic leaders had low expectations for victory.
dr massagué and his team performed two types  of experiments.
looking at x-rays and imaging scans is equally  inconvenient and unpredictable, requiring trips to a film library and luck that  the right folder can be retrieved.
this new catalog segments  sterilization products & services by sterilization process (steam, eo gas,  gas plasma, peracetic acid, dry heat and chemical vapor).
“donations from deceased persons eliminate the problem of donor  safety and can help reduce organ trafficking.”
however, 11 percent had at least one manifestation of  severe dengue disease, and a total of 23 percent required hospitalization due  to dengue-related symptoms.
during the event, medassets recognized customers who had achieved substantial financial and operational success through the use of the company’s technologies and services.
“it is more than helping them out with a job.
the american  college of physicians is the leading professional organization for internal  medicine specialists, with a membership of 120,000.
explosive growth in the number of processors and the amount of imported foods means that manufacturers “have to build safety into their products rather than us chasing after them,” brackett said.
the study is published in the early online edition of the  journalnature biotechnology.
the centers for disease control and prevention (cdc) unveiled a new look for the home page and major topic pages of its web site.
overwhelmed by huge growth in the number of food processors and imports, however, the agency took only limited steps to address the problems and relied on producers to police themselves, according to agency documents.
“we strongly encourage the use of blunt-tip suture needles when feasible and appropriate to reduce this risk.”
named motivate-1 and 2  (maraviroc plus optimized therapy in viremic antiretroviral  treatment-experienced patients), the trials show 24 weeks of data comparing  optimized background therapy, with or without maraviroc, in over 1,000 highly  treatment-experienced patients with ccr5-tropic hiv-1.
guidance  clarifying the responsibility of hospitals provide emergency services if they  participate in the medicare program.
and the same genes that drive the growth of the primary tumour also help the cells to move and settle somewhere else.
“we’re not trying to take away from the screening already in place.
results were compared to findings of cultures obtained from patients showing possible signs or symptoms of infection.
the fees are used in concert with the agency’s annual appropriations to help fda meet its review performance goals, which would speed more promising products to market than before.
but all along, as more and more mammography centers bought the  software, the assumption was that the computer would find cancers that  radiologists would miss, saving women’s lives.
we estimate 44,000 fewer breast cancers over those two years (2003-04) and thousands more in the coming decades.”
ship counselors will continue to provide enrollment assistance to  medicare beneficiaries and offer personalized counseling regarding all of their  medicare benefits, including new preventive health screenings and services.
the plan, if approved thursday, would still need to be presented at public hearings across the state and face a final vote in june.
electronic records can also improve physician performance.
women weighed down by health care costs, new study finds as cover the uninsured week approaches, a new commonwealth fund report by  researchers at the national women’s law center finds that even women with  health insurance coverage are more likely than insured men to go without needed  healthcare because of costs.
in mississippi, infant deaths among blacks rose to 17 per thousand  births in 2005 from 14.2 per thousand in 2004, while those among whites rose to  6.6 per thousand from 6.1.
more than 20 other hantaviruses threaten people in china, korea,  northern and western europe, argentina, chile, brazil, panama, and canada.
today, about 80 percent of prostate biopsies find no tumor, a  percentage that is rising as physicians become more aggressive in searching for  the disease.
too often  because of social stigma or lack of understanding, individuals and health care  providers don't recognize the signs or treat mental health or substance use  disorders with the same urgency as other medical conditions.”
“the fda is adding  ‘black box’ warnings to all prescription and over-the-counter pain  relievers, even to naproxen, which the evidence shows is safe,” said  furberg, who serves on the fda drug safety and risk management advisory  committee.
hepagam b works by providing an immediate immune response to the  virus.
over the past decade, unusually warm winters and large populations of mice  have also been responsible for outbreaks in new mexico and nearby states of a  related illness, hantavirus pulmonary syndrome.
those interested in  fabric samples or additional information may contact dupont by calling  1‑888-476-6827 or by e-mail to zelasticnonwovens@dupont.com novation introduces first product catalog for private label  brand, novaplus
the council of supply chain executives announces new member women under-treated for ovarian cancer ovarian cancer is one of the most lethal cancers women can get, yet one  out of three u.s. patients diagnosed with the disease doesn’t get the  full, recommended surgical treatment, a new study finds.
each state will receive a share of $30 million in grant funds so state agencies can bring personalized assistance to people with medicare at the local level.
“even the  patient’s personal physician may be reluctant to initiate an evaluation  until a considerable degree of brain failure has occurred.
madjid, who is assistant professor of medicine at the university of texas-houston, and a senior research scientist at the texas heart institute in houston, worked with colleagues in the us and in st. petersburg in the russian federation to investigate deaths between 1993 and 2000 in st. petersburg that had been shown by autopsy reports to be due to coronary heart disease.
the proposed rule would create 745 new severity-adjusted diagnosis related  groups (drgs) (medicare severity drgs or ms-drgs) to replace the current 538  drgs.
“our results provide further support to the potentially important independent role of diabetes in the pathogenesis of alzheimer’s disease,” the authors conclude.
this feature enables cdc to better display health  recommendations, guidelines and upcoming events.
when fully implemented in 2010, it is projected that these savings will amount to $1 billion annually.
only a fraction, however,  had severe symptoms that could be classified as clinical depression, the  researchers said.
women’s  thoughts about mammography or their risks of developing breast cancer will  likely vary greatly, the group notes, but it expects the potential reduction in  breast cancer mortality associated with screening to outweigh other  considerations for many women.
in contrast, results for a traditional viral culture test can take several days to a week.
human rights groups have said many organs, including those transplanted into wealthy foreigners, come from executed prisoners who may not have given their permission.
but the letter, made public by the house energy and commerce committee, which has spearheaded inquiries into nih for years, said the review began about six months ago.
the fda has  recently issued warnings for epoetin and another similar drug darbepoetin which  is used to treat cancer patients with anemia.
ghx develops collaborative contract commitment tool for  the  healthcare supply chain ghx has extended the functionality of its contract center to include a  collaborative contract commitment module that can be utilized by all providers,  manufacturers, distributors, and group purchasing organizations (gpos) in the  healthcare supply chain.
in addition, contract suppliers must accept the single payment amount established through competitive bidding as payment in full.
human rights watch urged beijing for full  transparency on the removal of body organs from executed prisoners.
additional new features provide better access to data and statistics, recent news, tools and resources, and new publications.
“this  achievement represents a major milestone in our battle against diabetes.
pharmafab is a major contract manufacturer and distributor  of more than 100 different prescription and over-the-counter drug products,  including cough and cold products, ulcer treatments, and postpartum hemorrhage  products.
budget buildersm, developed exclusively for vha members, automates the budgeting process and helps hospitals identify cost-saving opportunities that previously may have gone unnoticed.
the study also found  that one of every three stays of uninsured patients was related to a mental  health or substance abuse disorder.
in the first experiment they took human breast cancer cells and switched off all four genes before inserting them into mice.
“given the increase in business travel and other travel, and the global spread of dengue fever, these findings have important implications for the future burden of severe imported dengue infections,” wichmann said.
democrats needed a 60-vote majority to start debate on the measure, but lost 55 to 42.
if any evidence surfaces  to indicate there is harm to humans, the appropriate action will be taken.
with routine vaccination against the virus in u.s. dental  healthcare personnel over the last two decades, the incidence of hbv infection  in this high-risk group has dramatically fallen, and no cases of  dentist-to-patient hbv transmission have been reported in the u.s. since 1987.
as a next step to their study wichmann highlighted the need for more inquiry into a clinical definition of dengue.
however, other research has shown that up to 85 percent of patients visit their primary care doctors, who these days are likely to have had little if any role in their hospital care,before a summary of their last hospitalization arrives.
the  analysis also indicated that fluoroquinolone resistance is widespread  geographically.
most of the  complications could have been avoided with early diagnosis and aggressive  treatment, said daniel einhorn of la jolla, ca, an endocrinologists association  board member.
in arizona, connecticut,  idaho, maine and 11 other states, doctors can safely apologize to or  commiserate with patients or their families about an undesirable or unexpected  outcome, according to the ama.
people without diabetes generally  have levels around 5 percent.
the report, developed following a meeting of critical care stakeholders called the prioritizing the organization and management of intensive care services (promis) conference held in september 2005, calls for creation of a tiered, regionalized system for critical care services in an effort to centralize expertise, equipment and facilities.
suggesting these patient populations are at especially high risk of mrsa  carriage.
in  january and february, mexico’s dry season, there were 1,589 cases of both  types of dengue nationwide, up 380 percent from the same period in 2006, kuri  said.
niacin is easily  available as an over-the-counter vitamin supplement.
they found two bacterial glycosidase gene  families with enzymes that efficiently remove a and b antigens from red blood  cells (rbcs).
in addition, the proposal  would allow a mechanism for foreign businesses to qualify as small businesses.
virginia, idaho, utah and south dakota have already adopted a model law  designed to make organ donation easier by clarifying a host of sensitive  questions.
“there’s no way they could police the system with the resources  they have,” vodra said.
the va software flags  questionable doses and potential interactions.
the olives are made by charlie brown di rutigliano & figli s.r.l, of bari, italy and are being recalled by the manufacturer.
statins linked to lower risk of infection; markedly lower frequency of  sepsis in dialysis patients observed researchers at johns hopkins may have discovered an unintended benefit in  the drugs millions of americans take to lower their cholesterol:
parkwest medical center in knoxville, tn,  launched its program in january 2006.
all three had received organs from the same deceased donor in december, and their closely spaced deaths suggested their transplants might have exposed them to a deadly infectious agent.
if in doubt, consumers should contact the retailer and inquire whether its olives are part of the recall.
during the event, medassets recognized customers who had achieved  substantial financial and operational success through the use of the  company’s technologies and services.
“among this predominantly  pre-menopausal population, neither induced nor spontaneous abortion was  associated with the incidence of breast cancer.”
pregnancies among overweight women must  be classified as high risk pregnancies and appropriate antenatal care should be  provided so they receive the optimum care during maternity.”
although some people believe making medical records widely  available to many practitioners is a threat to privacy, va officials believe  strongly that patient privacy is more secure now than in the era of paper  charts.
for more information on fda’s post-market action plan consult seethis link.
a central theme of the discussions was who’s concern over increasing  cases of commercial exploitation of human materials.
commitment to its long-term goal of reshaping american healthcare in ways that  make it the safest, most effective and efficient system in the world,”  said susan devore, premier’s chief operating officer.
those states that have approved the law already, however, will have to wait until next year to amend it.
overall, the proposed rule is estimated to increase payments to more than 3,500 acute care hospitals by $3.3 billion.
rowan university electrical and computer  engineering associate professor dr. robi polikar conducted the research with  dr. christopher clark, associate professor of neurology, associate director of  the nih-sponsored alzheimer's disease center at penn and director of the penn  memory center, and with dr. john kounios, a drexel psychology professor.
however, more than one third are reimbursed for costs associated with professional meetings or continuing medical education (cme), and more than a quarter receive honoraria for consulting, lecturing or enrolling patients in clinical trials, say researchers.
nih  referred only those 10 cases to the hhs office of inspector general (oig),  which referred two to the justice department for possible prosecution.
projected aggregate spending from the reforms will not  change.
the trustees note that  medicare expenditures were $408 billion in 2006, or 3.1 percent of gross  domestic product (gdp), and are projected to increase to over 11 percent of gdp  in 75 years.
low colorectal cancer screening rates are a concern because unlike screening for many other cancers, colorectal cancer screening can find colon growths called polyps before they ever become cancerous, preventing the disease entirely.
as part of the ongoing investigation, fda has determined the rice protein was used in the production of pet food and a portion of the pet food was used to produce animal feed.
most patients given cox-2 inhibitors and nsaids are elderly, and evidence to date suggests that both drug types boost the chances of heart attack and stroke.
as a vitamin, the daily  recommended intake is 15 milligrams, but niacin is used in much larger doses to  treat vitamin deficiencies and other conditions.
critics say it could result in people becoming donors or kept on life support against their or their family’s wishes.
the gene, designated vangl1, codes for a protein  that enables cells to orient themselves properly during development, gros  explained.
april 2, 2007 dengue surging in mexico, latin america universal red blood cells could relieve blood bank shortages conflict-of-interest inquiry may be reopening at nih russia sees ill effects of ‘general winter’s’ retreat ches webinar series focuses on benefits of synchronized product data across the health care industry
mainegeneral health wanted to automate and consolidate key  financial management functions across its three hospitals and eight business  units, seeking a stable platform that would expand visibility of critical  enterprise data, automate approval workflow, improve reporting functionality  and enable e-commerce.
u.s. wonders if drug data was accurate the food and drug administration is examining whether eli lilly  & company provided it with accurate data about the side effects of the  antipsychotic drug zyprexa, a potent medicine that has been linked to weight  gain and diabetes.
several states have mandated changes in  school menus, increased physical education requirements and begun reporting  students’ body mass index scores to parents.
they found that those who had experienced a variety of stressful events frequently had prolonged periods in which they reported many symptoms of depression.
for more information see this link healthcare providers to benefit from amerinet’s agreement with med1online amerinet inc. announces its agreement with med1online for customized medical equipment management services.
sixty-six thousand kidneys were transplanted in 2005 representing a mere 10% of the estimated need.
showing that fluoroquinolone-resistant gonorrhea is now widespread in the  united states among heterosexuals and men who have sex with men (msm).
(medical news today) medassets’ 2007 healthcare business summit celebrates successes in healthcare
diabetes was related to a significantly higher risk of mild cognitive impairment overall and of amnestic mild cognitive impairment specifically after controlling for other factors that may affect risk, including age, ethnic group, years of education and heart and blood vessel disease.
that is about when committee members complained loudly that too many of those who were found to have violated nih rules had gotten off with only modest disciplinary action.
“any hospital participating in medicare, regardless of the type of  hospital and apart from whether the hospital has an emergency department must  have the capability to provide basic emergency care interventions.”
over the last few years, the foundation has pledged $80 million to childhood obesity programs, like grants to the food trust to persuade supermarket operators to return to poor neighborhoods.
hibcc, an ansi-accredited standards  development organization (sdo), will administer the process to formally develop  an approved data standard.
investigations show that she had contact with  backyard poultry.
the  merger is part of sterilmed and the scope exchange’s strategy to help  healthcare providers conserve their resources by extending the life of medical  devices, instruments, and equipment.
this means researchers often need to take additional steps, such as sequencing every dna base pair in that particular region of the genome, to identify the exact genetic variant that affects disease risk.
modern devices provide significant health benefits, but experience has shown that the full magnitude of some potential risks doesn’t always emerge during the mandatory clinical trials that are required for approval.
the patients were  taking part in the therapeutic arthritis research and gastrointestinal event  trial (target).
however, this  remains to be shown.”
and the two approved drugs without the experimental one also stopped the cancer from spreading.
“so, here it was easy to show that virtual colonoscopy is a very  effective way to filter out these people and hone in on those who really need  the more invasive procedure,” he said.
f.d.a. rejects merck’s new pain medication a panel of federal drug advisers voted 20 to 1 thursday to reject an  application by merck to sell its pain pill arcoxia because of concerns that the  drug could cause as many as 30,000 heart attacks annually if widely used.
while it is well-established that mammography reduces mortality from breast cancer in 50- to 70-year-old women, and that women in this age-group should be routinely screened, the evidence isn’t as clear-cut for younger women.
smoking rates among high school students did not change significantly between 2003 and 2005, the report says.
a merck spokeswoman, kyra lindemann, said the company was “disappointed in today’s outcome.”
new virus discovered; 3 organ transplant recipients in australia  succumb to infection the unfortunate deaths of three organ transplant recipients in  australia this past january has led to the discovery of a new virus.
may  2010 april 2010 march 2010 february 2010 january 2010 more to come...
because this result falls within the first seven years of the projection period (2007-2013), the trustees have issued a determination of “excess general revenue medicare funding.”
experts reacting to this study suggest that changing the way for-profit dialysis centres are reimbursed by medicare (currently they are paid for doing dialysis and giving the anemia drugs separately) to a composite system would be a better way to do it and would remove the incentive that is tied to the drug on its own.
physicians should consider using alternative devices.
scrushy settles sec civil claims healthsouth corp. founder richard m. scrushy reached an $81 million deal  with the securities and exchange commission to settle claims against him  related to the massive accounting fraud at the healthcare rehabilitation  company, according tothe wall street journal.
the researchers also presented findings on the economic impact of staph aureus infections in hospitals and found that from 1998 to 2003 the economic burden among all staph aureus-related inpatient stays increased from $8.7 billion to $14.5 billion, an annual increase of 11.9 percent.
the reports’ lead author is peter ravdin, m.d., of the anderson cancer center, and included investigators from the national cancer institute and the los angeles biomedical research institute at harbor-ucla medical center (la biomed).
“but this report shows we may be losing  momentum in some key areas that have been critical to our success.”
historically, amerisourcebergen  has proactively cooperated with the dea in preventing diversion of hydrocodone  and other controlled substances, and will fully cooperate with the agency in  resolving the temporary suspension.
“the data from the nhsii provide further evidence of a lack of an  important overall association between induced or spontaneous abortions and risk  of breast cancer,” the authors conclude.
the  tumours did not grow, and metastasis to the lungs was greatly reduced.
two of those sublineages have recently reassorted.
the heart association continues to push its “go red for women” campaign, which includes an online self-survey to evaluate an individual woman’s specific risk factors.
although the company began importing product from china in august 2006, the company did not become aware of the contamination until april 2007.
“we’ll have plenty of additional chances,” said sen. ron wyden (d-or), a supporter of the bill.
at the beginning of the study and again every 18 months through 2003, each  participant underwent an in-person interview and standard assessment, which  included a medical history, physical and neurological examination, and a  battery of neurological tests that measured learning, memory, reason and  language skills, among others.
since heart disease is often harder to detect and harder to treat in  women, prevention is the key to saving most women's lives.
(healthday news) effect of hormone therapy on risk of heart disease may vary by age and  years since menopause secondary analyses of findings from the women’s health initiative  (whi) suggest that women who begin hormone therapy within 10 years of menopause  may have less risk of coronary heart disease (chd) due to hormone therapy than  women farther from menopause.
congress has asked for various reports on the issue, including a comprehensive analysis last year by the federal department of health and human services.
the prevention rate dropped slightly, to 36.5 percent,  when screenings focused only on polyps 6 millimeters and up.
he opposes the rhode  island legislation.
substance abuse and mental health  services administration administrator terry cline, ph.d., said, “the  significant number of hospital stays related to mental health and substance use  disorders signals the need for an increased national effort to identify and  intervene early before the conditions require a hospital stay.
results for detecting vre, a lesser known but still common superbug, were six times higher with weekly testing than with routine testing, which missed 82 percent of those with vre.
“we strongly encourage the use of blunt-tip suture needles  when feasible and appropriate to reduce this risk.”
drugs containing trimethobenzamide in suppository form lack evidence of effectiveness.
reports of pertussis have increased most dramatically among adolescents and  adults.
the data  showed the proportion of drug-resistant cases among heterosexuals rising above  the recognized threshold of 5 percent for changing treatment recommendations.
we’ve been putting a lot of stakes in the ground, but this is the center pole that will allow us to put up the tent and get everybody covered.”
this year marked the initial presentation  of the lifetime financial improvement award as well as awards recognizing  high-performing customers of medassets’ subsidiaries avega health  systems, medassets net revenue systems and medassets analytical systems.
since that is the fastest growing group of obese americans, widely published trends for obesity underestimate the consequences of the obesity epidemic because illness and service use are much higher among severely obese individuals.
further,  the company lacked an effective quality control unit and failed to establish  reliable expiration dates for products.
“if all countries agree on a common approach, and stop commercial  exploitation, then access will be more equitable and we will have fewer health  tragedies.”
a fee  would be assessed on facilities that register with fda as a medical device  manufacturer.
on april 25, who is scheduled to hold  another meeting in geneva to focus on ways to increase developing-country  access to potential pandemic vaccines.
now,  reporting in the april 5 issue of thenew england journal of medicine,  they say they have found three vangl1 mutations linked to neural tube defects  in children treated at birth defect centers in italy and france.
doq-it u is an interactive, web-based tool  designed to provide solo and small-to-medium sized physician practices with the  education for successful hit adoption, including lessons on culture change,  vendor selection and operational redesign, along with clinical processes.
since hillary rodham clinton’s effort to overhaul the  nation’s medical system was rejected in 1994, most big employers have  stayed out of the debate on healthcare reform.
in the first six months of the three-year project, 29 participating hospital units have slashed infection rates by close to 70% by adhering to a rigid set of measures shown to prevent infection in children, including far more rigorous care of catheters, higher sterile precautions, and constant assessment of the need for keeping catheters in place.
another expert said the study confirms the importance of seeing a gynecologic oncologist, as the acog opinion recommends.
statins, which include pfizer inc.’s $10 billion-a-year  lipitor, bristol-myers squibb co.’s pravachol and merck and co.  inc.’s zocor, are the world’s best-selling drugs, taken by millions  to reduce the risk of heart attack.
the unapproved drugs manufactured by pharmafab include, but are not  limited to: de-congestine sustained release capsules; gfn 1200/dm 60/pse 60  extended-release tablets; rhinacon a tablets; sudal 12 chewable tablets; histex  pd 12 suspension; atuss hx ciii; ergotrate tablets; and hyoscyamine sulfate  time-release capsules.
the new study of computer-aided detection was an analysis of 429,345  mammograms obtained from 1998 to 2002 at 43 mammography centers.
“our mission is to be the bridge to the right healthcare career fit  for our returning heroes,” said bayne tippins, director, hire heroes.
for beneficiaries in the selected cbas, this program will reduce out-of-pocket expenses while ensuring that they receive high quality items and services.
while hemorrhagic dengue is increasing around the developing world, the problem is most dramatic in the americas, according to the centers for disease control and prevention.
register online at http://chestandards.org/pduwebinars.htm.
the  agriculture department, which monitors meat, poultry and eggs and keeps  inspectors in every processing plant, got an increase 10 times that amount to  help pay for its inspection programs.
most cases are  mild.
the f.d.a. has never  concluded that zyprexa causes diabetes more than other widely used psychiatric  drugs, although the american diabetes association has.
the american college of surgeons  (acs) issued a statement in 2005 supporting the use of blunt-tip suture needles  where clinically appropriate.
get the fast flu test medicare announces competitive acquisition program for certain dme,  prosthetics, orthotics, and supplies niaid expands capability for influenza research and surveillance family members most often source of whooping cough in young infants healthgrades patient-safety study shows hospital errors rise  3 percent patient safety incidents at the nation’s hospitals rose three  percent over the years 2003 to 2005, but the nation’s top-performing  hospitals had a 40 percent lower rate of medical errors when compared with the  poorest-performing hospitals, according to the largest annual study of  patient-safety issued by healthgrades, the leading independent healthcare  ratings company.
scientists spot mutation linked to birth defects canadian researchers say they have found the first genetic mutation clearly linked to neural tube birth defects such as spina bifida in humans.
one in four hospital patients is admitted with a mental health or substance abuse disorder almost one-fourth of all stays in u.s. community hospitals for patients age 18 and older, 7.6 million of nearly 32 million stays, involved depressive, bipolar, schizophrenia and other mental health disorders or substance use related disorders in 2004, according to a new report by hhs’ agency for healthcare research and quality.
here  http://www.healthcaresupplierinstitute.com/.to register click here   http://www.healthcaresupplierinstitute.com/html/registration.html.
in addition to ahrq, the federal panel included representatives from cms, fda, cdc, hrsa and the nih.
on average, for-profit centres gave patients an average dose of 3,306 units a week more than non-profit dialysis centres.
the f.d.a. confirmed its inquiry in response to questions from the new york times.
jon kingsdale, the executive director of the authority, the agency set up to administer the plan, said setting the affordability standards “was always the most difficult and innovative element” of the state’s groundbreaking healthcare law, passed a year ago.
influenza b mutants with reduced sensitivity to neuraminidase inhibitors are circulating, and these viruses can cause infections with no difference in duration of symptoms, level of viral shedding, or clinical outcome.
vha member carolinas healthcare system, charlotte,  nc, helped pilot the budget builder software tool.
amerinet, (its original designation in 1986), comprised four multi-state  regional purchasing groups during its debut:
balog was accused of being the owner of record of r&j from  november 2002 to august 2004.
“if a doctor comes out and says something like that, he shouldn’t be able to immunize himself against statements like that by couching it in an apology.”
“as so often happens, basic research on a fundamental biological process, in this case, enzymes involved in dna repair, leads to new insights about how diseases arise and new approaches for treating or preventing them,” said nih director elias a. zerhouni, m.d.
this webinar is lead by  robert perry, senior consultant, mts, inc, 2006 president of the association  for health care resource & materials management (ahrmm), chair, ches  product data utility provider / idn working group and frank fernandez,  assistant vice president and corporate director of materials management,  baptist health south florida, ahrmm member representative, ches board of  directors.
these findings show that while doing its part in removing oxidative  lesions, ogg1 triggers a far more damaging effect, the dna expansion associated  with huntington’s disease.
geisinger launches extensive study on obesity and related liver problem relying on one of the largest collections of liver tissue samples ever acquired by a single organization, geisinger health system researchers have embarked on a massive study of one of the fastest growing liver problems.
the new study builds on previous research, goff said.
the next step, of course, will be to  reinforce to the public the message that they don't need antibiotics to treat  every ailment.”
fda approves first u.s. vaccine for humans against the avian influenza  virus h5n1
the rules  issued friday by china’s state council, or cabinet, include a ban on the  sale of human organs for profit and on donations by people under 18, according  to the text of the regulations published by the communist party newspaper  people’s daily.
robert wood johnson, who built johnson & johnson into one of the world’s largest health and medical care products companies, established his foundation at his death in 1968 with 10,204,377 shares of the company’s stock.
polyp searches were based on one of two thresholds: those measuring 6 millimeters in diameter and up, and lesions of any size.
“now, what we are saying is that  medical science has advanced.”
the researchers found that: dosing of epoetin varied significantly  depending on organizational status and ownership of the kidney dialysis centre.
due in part to  inadequate implementation and enforcement, the 1991 americans with disability  act (ada) has not lived up to its promise.
mainegeneral health expects to decrease the time needed to close its books from 21 days to 10 days.
steinman notes that physicians were just as likely to say they intended  to increase prescription of gabapentin whether or not visits included mention  of off-label use.
april 27, 2007 amerisourcebergen receives dea order to temporarily halt distribution of controlled substances from orlando facility landmark study shows at least 10 genetic variants are associated  with adult onset diabetes over time, more women are developing ms than men new prostate cancer test may detect more tumors new clorox
the integrity  of independence.”
study participants who had these symptoms were more likely to  have risk factors for chd such as high blood pressure or high blood  cholesterol, but it was not clear whether this explained their higher risk on  hormone therapy.
semistented aortic tricuspid valve; shelhigh bioconduit  stentless valve; shelhigh nr900a tricuspid valve; shelhigh mitrofast mitral  valve repair system; shelhigh biomitral tricuspid valve; and shelhigh  injectable pulmonic valve system.
“we have to be very careful that we don’t make people  think that we don’t have their best interests in mind and are just going  to use them to get their body parts.”
building on earlier, limited studies that suggested risk reduction in animals and some people, professor of medicine, director of the welch center and senior author neil r. powe, m.d., and his johns hopkins team followed 1041 dialysis patients for 10 years, dividing the subjects into those taking statins and those not.
april 20, 2007 ‘bird flu’ genome study shows new strains, western spread baby boomers appear to be less healthy than parents john hopkins begins aggressive screening for ‘superbugs’  in children osha, niosh publish bulletin to help protect surgical personnel from needle stick injuries vha rapid response team network saves lives in central atlantic region premier, cardinal health team up to help hospitals identify safer products through use of standardized terminology misusing vitamin to foil drug test may be toxic cdc launches new home page and other web site improvements ‘bird flu’ genome study shows new strains, western spread
this information is continuously updated on an electronic tracking map to inform caregivers of anticipated demand as patients are prepared for surgery and later for recovery.
consumers with questions may contact  charlie brown company at 011-039-080-7839073 or charliebrownbari@yahoo.com.
toxicology studies on  laboratory rodents have long suggested that it takes high doses of the chemical  to cause health problems, typically in the bladder and kidneys, payne said.
by better recognizing severity of  illness in the drgs, fewer cases would be paid as outliers.
distinguished hospitals for patient  safety continue to lead the nation in providing safer care…resulting in  much lower costs to society.
in one they switched off the genes, and in another they targeted them with drugs.
the specifications have been posted well in advance of the statutory deadline of july 1, 2007.
acs is pressing congress to boost funding for the national breast and cervical cancer early detection program, run by the us centers for disease control and prevention.
to validate their findings, the researchers compared their  initial results with results from genome scans of 3,000 swedish and finnish  participants in the diabetes genetics initiative and 5,000 british participants  in the wellcome trust case control consortium, led by peter donnelly, d.phil.,  oxford university.
“staph aureus causes a wide range of  infections, from mild skin infections to life-threatening blood stream  infections,” said angela dillow, phd, global business manager, 3m medical  diagnostics.
business groups wanted to make sure that premiums for state-sponsored insurance would not be too much less than the employee contributions to an employer’s plan because they fear that people would flock to the government-sponsored plans, driving up the cost to the state.
ccr5 antagonists have raised safety  concerns in the past.
the single payment amounts established through  competitive bidding will be lower than the current fee schedule amounts for the  items.
the trustees note that medicare expenditures were $408 billion in 2006, or 3.1 percent of gross domestic product (gdp), and are projected to increase to over 11 percent of gdp in 75 years.
scientists stop genes that help breast cancer to spread u.s. scientists have demonstrated a way to stop breast cancer spreading  to other parts of the body by either switching off the genes involved or  blocking them with drugs.
sick and dead poultry were reported in  the village in recent weeks, according to who, and the girl reportedly had  eaten part of a sick chicken before she became ill.
in a secondary analysis,  scientists reanalyze previously collected data and findings in an effort to  clarify or ask new questions.
the study, conducted by ole wichmann, md, mctm, dtm&h, at the robert koch institute in berlin, germany, and colleagues throughout europe, collected data through the european network on surveillance of imported diseases at 14 sites in 8 european countries.
april 19, 2007 consorta inc. finalizes agreement to become sixth equity owner of  healthtrust purchasing group decrease in breast cancer incidence linked to drop in hormone replacement 1,000 extra ovarian cancer deaths due to hrt in uk since 1991 republicans block medicare drug price bill wsj: pediatric icus make headway against infection us critical care delivery system in critical condition women weighed down by health care costs, new study finds difficult births in obese women due to uterus failure consorta inc. finalizes agreement to become sixth equity owner of  healthtrust purchasing group consorta inc. and healthtrust purchasing group lp, two of the  nation’s leading healthcare group purchasing organizations, today  finalized the agreement that establishes consorta as the sixth equity owner in  healthtrust.
this study was part of the wellcome trust case control consortium,  one of the biggest projects ever undertaken to identify the genetic variations  that may predispose people to or protect them from major diseases.
in addition, annual report filing fees would be collected for pre-market approvals.
if diagnosed early enough,  from 24 to 48 hours after a patient first shows symptoms, a treatment of  antiviral drugs can alleviate the severity of symptoms, cut down on the number  of days sick and decrease potential complications, poland said.
health experts fear spread  of these particular bacteria because they have developed resistance to the  antibiotic drugs most commonly used to combat them.
“identifying patient  populations that have a high risk of mrsa carriage is important in our efforts  to control the spread of this microbe among patients.”
“there hasn’t been any situation like this, where you knock out the gene and find a neural defect in the mouse and then find the same thing in humans.”
the procedure will be narrated by steven lyons, m.d., surgeon at the florida orthopaedic institute.
“the healthcare supply chain benchmarking and performance improvements metrics will not only enable organizations to determine the best performer, it will also determine best known practices and capabilities that have yet to be adopted by the majority of the industry,” explained vicki smith-daniels, professor of supply chain management, w.p. carey school of business, arizona state university.
risks and benefits of estrogen plus progestin in healthy postmenopausal women…) and the ensuing drop in hormone-replacement therapy among postmenopausal women.
“it is the first immune globulin product, one of several classes of proteins derived from human plasma, approved for this use.”
a highly promoted and widely used computerized system for examining mammograms is leading to less accuracy, not more, a new study finds.
“as so often happens, basic research on a  fundamental biological process, in this case, enzymes involved in dna repair,  leads to new insights about how diseases arise and new approaches for treating  or preventing them,” said nih director elias a. zerhouni, m.d.
alzheimer’s memory loss may one day be reversible a new us study suggests it may one day be possible to reverse the memory  loss associated with alzheimer’s and similar degenerative brain diseases.
“the migratory pathways of wild birds  don’t correspond with the movement of the genomes that we  sequenced,” said salzberg.
samples from the girl tested positive for h5n1 at the pasteur institute in phnom penh.
overall, hormone therapy did not reduce the risk  of chd.
formerly with the mgh institute of health policy, bendavid is  now at the center for health policy at stanford university.
yet in 2003, just 55% of women in this group said they’d had a mammogram in the previous year.
at the time  of the visits, gabapentin was approved only for secondary treatment of a  certain form of epilepsy.
the model indicated that 2,940 patients would  ultimately go on to develop colorectal cancer.
breast cancer is the second-leading cause of cancer related death among  women in the united states; according to the american cancer society, 25  percent of all diagnosed cases are among women younger than age 50.
conflict-of-interest inquiry may be reopening at nih federal investigators are reviewing the activities of 103 scientists who  may have had improper links to pharmaceutical companies while they were  employed at the national institutes of health, apparently resurrecting a  conflict-of-interest inquiry that many in the agency thought was closed.
the disease is asymptomatic in its early  stages and many people don’t know they have it initially.
for the study, researchers examined a  database (the north american research committee on multiple sclerosis, or  narcoms, hosted at barrow neurological institute in phoenix, ariz.) of 30,336  people with ms and determined the male/female ratio according to the year the  disease was diagnosed and the age of the person when the disease started.
if droppings left by the mice are disturbed, the viruses waft up and out of the excretions like a miasma, infecting people who breathe the air.
medassets’ current revenue cycle  offerings include chargemaster management, charge capture auditing, defensible  pricing, denials management, as well as supply item file and chargemaster  linkage.
the institute of medicine called for public  reporting of post-market studies in a 2005 study on pediatric devices.
their study of more than  76,000 people showed that those who had taken statins for at least 90 days had  a much lower risk of dying from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease or copd,  the technical name for emphysema and chronic bronchitis.
and some worry that the measure could make doctors more hesitant about administering morphine and other drugs to make dying patients comfortable, for fear of rendering their organs useless for transplantation.
funding for such programs falls far short of what is needed, the report says.
key areas include programs and services such as clinical consulting, clinical preference products and data analysis and management tools.”
the outbreaks point to a need to change the way the agency does business, said robert e. brackett, director of the fda’s food-safety arm, which is responsible for safeguarding 80 percent of the nation’s food supply.
the pilot project demonstrated that three initial standards are already capable of supporting e-prescribing transactions in medicare part d. these are standard transactions that provide physicians with patients’ formulary and benefit information, medication history, and the fill status of their medications.
he said gunshot wounds pose special challenges.
effective through march 31, 2010, this agreement includes skytron’s patient examination and procedure lighting.
the deficiencies may compromise the safety and effectiveness of the products, particularly their sterility.
“as policymakers and advocates  explore how to expand and improve health coverage, they should ensure that any  proposal provides comprehensive benefits and low cost-sharing.”
dr. joan massagué from the memorial sloan-kettering cancer center in new york, has been working in this field for some time.
however, too  little progress has been made in adopting the major public policy and practice  recommendations made in the 1991 and 1997 iom reports.
they looked at incidence of influenza  and pneumonia and of copd, and then cross-checked to see which patients were  also taking statins.
the cambodian ministry of health said the 13-year-old girl, from ponhea kreak district in kampong cham province, developed symptoms april 2, was hospitalized the next day and died april 5.
so far dr. massagué and his team have been working with mice; they hope to set up trials with humans very soon.
there are many alternative products approved to effectively treat nausea and vomiting, and that are available in a variety of forms, including tablets, capsules, solutions, injectables and suppositories.
the va is now rolling out “my health e vet,” a feature that allows patients to create a portal to their own charts, where they can record measurements they take at home; list over-the-counter medicines they use; and offer comments about their health.
“women’s symptoms can be more subtle,” goldberg  said.
a critical element of this process is the movement we have underway for medicare to change from being a passive payer of services to becoming an active purchaser of high-quality, efficient care.
about half  of the participants had type 2 diabetes and the other half had normal blood  glucose levels.
the goal of the newly created centers is to provide the federal  government with important information to inform public health strategies for  controlling and lessening the impact of seasonal influenza as well as an  influenza pandemic.
women also should  consider whether or not a relative has had heart disease.
both kidney and liver  transplants are on the rise but demand is also increasing and remains  unmatched.
hiv uses it as a co-receptor to get into target cells:  the cd4 t-cells or helper cells, the main coordinators of the immune system.
physicians are unsure how to find it and when to treat it.
the  indictment charges that the accused received about $2.5 million in fraudulent  durable medical equipment claims and $3.2 million for false billing of infusion  therapies.
in addition, the proposal would allow a mechanism for foreign businesses to qualify as small businesses.
hospitalized patients have bar codes on their wristbands that are scanned for an identity check each time a pill is dispensed or an injection given.
amerinet announces agreements amerinet inc. announces its agreement for baby products with johnson & johnson consumer products company, a division of johnson & johnson consumer companies.
c. botulinum can  cause botulism, a potentially fatal illness.
“there are a total of 10 patients where we found  the mutations.
it’s about helping them grow stronger mentally and  emotionally to have a more normal life.”
get the fast flu test medicare announces competitive acquisition program for certain dme, prosthetics, orthotics, and supplies niaid expands capability for influenza research and surveillance patient safety incidents at the nation’s hospitals rose three percent over the years 2003 to 2005, but the nation’s top-performing hospitals had a 40 percent lower rate of medical errors when compared with the poorest-performing hospitals, according to the largest annual study of patient-safety issued by healthgrades, the leading independent healthcare ratings company.
“it is important to understand how the disease is  spread, particularly to infants who are too young to be vaccinated themselves,  so that steps can be taken to prevent infections in these vulnerable infants  and potentially save lives,” said dr. annelies van rie, assistant  professor of epidemiology in the unc school of public health and the  study’s senior author.
however, as the disease progresses, the virus adapts to use an alternative entry point, the cxr4 receptor.
for more information click here.
comments on the proposed rule will be accepted until june 12, 2007 and a final rule, to be effective for discharges on or after october 1, 2007, will be published later in the summer.
the infusion therapy schemes have been widespread.
under the agreement, broadlane will provide touro infirmary with national and local strategic supply chain services for consumable supplies and equipment, pharmaceuticals and purchased services.
to that end, geisinger is uniquely  positioned to develop such a test because of the array of resources the system  has at its disposal.
however, most people are evaluated at community hospitals and clinics, where the diagnostic accuracy is estimated to be around 75 percent.
diabetes can lead to host of consequences acs report: progress against cancer at risk; early detection, prevention need more attention vha introduces a new tool to improve capital budgeting efficiency for hospitals amerinet signs exclusive agreement with st. theresa medical complex egyptian girl dies of bird flu a 15-year-old egyptian girl who tested positive for the h5n1 bird flu virus has died in hospital, bringing the number of deaths from the disease in egypt to 14, the health ministry said on wednesday.
fda concluded that additional  warnings are needed because, to date, the company has not contacted importers  with specific instructions on the recall.
for every 1,000 women using hrt, 2.6 developed ovarian  cancer over five years, compared to 2.2 per 1,000 in women who did not use hrt,  one extra ovarian cancer diagnosed in every 2,500 hrt users, and one extra  death from ovarian cancer in every 3,300 users.
“the problem we were facing was buying equipment sporadically and not knowing who and where and when they were being bought.
bardis extended a job offer to callahan that day, and justin has been a medassets’ employee since he officially retired from the military three years ago.
currently, more than 22 million seniors and disabled people receive drug coverage under medicare.
this means researchers often need to take additional  steps, such as sequencing every dna base pair in that particular region of the  genome, to identify the exact genetic variant that affects disease risk.
out of the 1,041 patients, there were a total of 303 hospitalizations for sepsis.
to view the report see this link.
the lawsuit was brought by a former employee who alleged that the  company promoted gabapentin, which it sold under the name neurontin, for uses  not officially approved by the fda.
va patients scored  higher on overall quality, chronic disease care and preventive care.
“this study helps quantify the impression that many clinicians have and confirms that systems perform poorly when they are overloaded,” said study co-author david bates, md, msc, of the bwh division of general medicine and primary care.
“this hints at the  possibility that cognitive function can be improved even in advanced stages of  dementia,” she added.
with cas, hip, knee, and ankle  replacement adjustments surgeons can have a perfect alignment rate up to 98  percent.
masimo expects to combine its masimo rainbow set read-through motion and  low perfusion pulse oximetry with masimo arm technology as part of a general  floor monitoring solution designed to increase patient safety and heed the  growing call to find ways reduce unnecessary deaths on general care floors.
the olives should not be eaten alone or in other foods, even if they do not appear to be spoiled.
after their review, the group concluded that screening mammography for women in this age group likely provides a modest reduction in breast cancer mortality, but, as with any screening intervention, it also comes with the risk of potential harms.
merck sells arcoxia in 63 countries, and the company  underwrote an extensive safety testing program that involved 34,000 arthritis  patients.
a total of 16 customers received the medassets net revenue systems best practice award.
to read the press  release see this link.
the 2007 outstanding humanitarian award went to chris  van gorder, chief executive officer of scripps health in san diego, ca.
c. botulinum can cause botulism, a potentially fatal illness.
the institute of medicine called for public reporting of post-market studies in a 2005 study on pediatric devices.
if diagnosed early enough, from 24 to 48 hours after a patient first shows symptoms, a treatment of antiviral drugs can alleviate the severity of symptoms, cut down on the number of days sick and decrease potential complications, poland said.
the prime benefit for patients when surgeons use cas is shorter post-surgery recovery time.
(the new york times) rfid resource center launched; service provides knowledgebase for  healthcare supply chain
as the first wave of baby boomers edges toward retirement, a growing body  of evidence suggests that they may be the first generation to enter their  golden years in worse health than their parents.
so far dr. massagué and his team have been working with  mice; they hope to set up trials with humans very soon.
the computer system tells  practitioners not only what a patient has been prescribed but what he has  actually picked up from the pharmacy.
the ergonomic 17l5 hd multi-angle needle guidance system is designed to work in conjunction with biopsy software on siemens acuson sequoia ultrasound platform to provide detailed imaging of small parts, breast, and subtle pathologies.
agency officials said that some contaminated products, sold by pet food  manufacturers as scraps, were fed to hogs in the carolinas, new york, california  and utah, and that some of those animals tested positive for melamine.
new canadian guidelines to address growing obesity epidemic
shoulder arthroplasty is also less expensive, according to mcfarland.
this provision keeps many from obtaining scooters and wheelchairs that would allow them to navigate reliably and safely outside the home.
while  this kind of infection is exceedingly rare, universal vaccination against the  virus would likely have prevented both cases, according to the authors of the  report and an accompanying commentary.
“we have  confirmed china’s cases,” said who spokesman gregory hartl,  “because if the national laboratory has been certified as being able to  do h5n1 testing and it undergoes periodic review, then we will accept their  national certification or report.”
this anticipated mismatch  between supply and demand is perhaps no different for critical care services  than for other medical care disproportionately serving elders, ranging from  emergency services to long-term care services, but the opportunities for  improving the efficiency of the existing system to meet demand are probably  greater.”
“but this report shows we may be losing momentum in some key areas that have been critical to our success.”
“statins are known to have an effect on the body’s immune system, but what that is exactly, and how many statin users it affects, is still not widely understood.”
an article appearing online in theannals of emergency medicine finds that, except in cases where cellulitis is present, abscesses can be treated successfully without antibiotics, even in an environment heavily contaminated with methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus (mrsa) (“are antibiotics necessary after incision and drainage of a cutaneous abscess?”).
since it is the most commonly used nsaid, the unrecognized  harm it has caused worldwide could be enormous.”
hbv infection has long been a concern in dental  infection control.
there was even more  variation in the components that went into the total scores.
it  will accelerate efforts to understand the genetic risk factors for this  disease, as well as explore how these genetic factors interact with each other  and with lifestyle factors,” said national institutes of health (nih)  director elias a. zerhouni, m.d. “such research is opening the door to  the era of personalized medicine.
after a few months, when the mice had aged, the scientists analyzed the gene and found that the segment had expanded.
perl is past president of shea.
for example,  cardiologists are more than twice as likely as family practitioners to receive  direct payments from drug companies for consulting and other services and are  also significantly more likely to be paid honoraria than pediatricians,  anesthesiologists, or surgeons.
cms will publish the final ncd  no later than sixty days after the end of the comment period.
high risk patients taking aspirin and ibuprofen were around nine  times as likely to have heart attacks and strokes over one year as those on  lumiracoxib.
callahan’s experiences raised awareness and  understanding of the challenges veterans with disabilities may face when  re-entering and adjusting to the workplace, which led to the creation of hire  heroes.
“this is not the end of the  debate.”
they say they are able to handle their patients’ medical  emergencies, whether or not they have emergency departments.
if droppings left by  the mice are disturbed, the viruses waft up and out of the excretions like a  miasma, infecting people who breathe the air.
hospitals have the most to gain from an efficient supply chain, reduced rework, fewer errors, reduced costs and improved patient safety, to name a few advantages.
“this is not the end of the debate.”
this was the same for both men and women and in different age groups.
in this new study, they have identified four genes in particular that work together to help cells from the primary site to settle at a new site and grow.
dna repair enzymes initially keep oxidative lesions in check, but over time, increasing numbers of lesions overwhelm the repair systems.
amerinet signs exclusive agreement with ohio valley hospital consortium premier acquires carescience, strengthening ability of hospitals to  improve quality while safely reducing cost
electronic medical records make it  easier.
the healthgrades study of 40.56 million medicare hospitalization records  over the years 2003 to 2005 found: patient-safety incidents continue to rise in  american hospitals, with 1.16 million preventable patient-safety incidents  occurring over the three years studied among medicare patients in the  nation’s hospitals, an incidence rate of 2.86 percent; 247,662 deaths  were potentially preventable over the three years, and medicare patients who  had one or more patient-safety incidents had a one-in-four chance of dying; the  excess cost to hospitals was $8.6 billion over three years, with some of the  most common incidents proving to be the most costly; ten of the 16  patient-safety incidents tracked worsened from 2003 to 2005, by an average of  almost 12 percent, while seven incidents improved, on average, by six percent.
but the regulations were packed with shortcomings, a human rights group said saturday, including a failure to address what it called the “crucial issue” of the procurement of organs from executed prisoners.
at the same time, many doctors are trained or warned never to admit errors in case a patient sues.
robert a. dormer, a partner in the law firm of  hyman, phelps & mcnamara, who represents drug companies, said that the  companies did not have to provide every analysis they performed to the f.d.a.  (the new york times) to read the original article seethis link.
it is unclear whether  boomers are really sicker or are simply more health-conscious by dint of being  better educated and having better access to information.
but a few months later, lilly provided data to the f.d.a. that showed almost no difference in blood sugar between patients who took zyprexa and those who did not.
michael rush, director of  materials resource management for carolinas, said the health system wanted to  improve the capital budgeting process and fix the current flawed process.
zyprexa remains lilly’s top-selling drug, with $4 billion in worldwide annual sales.
among middle-aged adults, people with a bmi over 40 are expected to have health costs that are double those experienced by normal weight peers, while moderate obesity (a bmi of 30-35) is associated with only a 25 percent increase.
medicare announces measure specifications for the physician quality  reporting initiative the centers for medicare and medicaid services (cms) announced the posting  of detailed specifications for the 74 measures included in the 2007 physician  quality reporting initiative (pqri).
nearly 40 percent of the visits involved  discussion of so-called “off-label” uses of the drug not approved  by the food and drug administration, say the authors of the study.
at the year-15 examination, 10 percent had coronary artery calcium  detectable on a ct scan.
at this time, the agencies have no evidence of harm to humans associated with the processed pork product, and therefore no recall of meat products processed from these animals is being issued.
to submit electronic comments on the proposal, visit www.regulations.gov or www.fda.gov/dockets/ecomments.
not necessarily, according to the american college of physicians.
on march 27, after a two-day meeting in jakarta, indonesia, among officials from who and 20 nations that have had animal and human h5n1 outbreaks, who agreed not to share virus samples with vaccine makers without approval from the virus-collecting country, and the government of indonesia agreed to resume sharing h5n1 virus samples.
in developing the revised clinical trial policy, cms convened the medicare evidence development and coverage advisory committee (medcac) on december 13, 2006.
“it is important to understand how the disease is spread, particularly to infants who are too young to be vaccinated themselves, so that steps can be taken to prevent infections in these vulnerable infants and potentially save lives,” said dr. annelies van rie, assistant professor of epidemiology in the unc school of public health and the study’s senior author.
prof clausen and colleagues conclude that “the enzymatic conversion processes we describe hold promise for achieving the goal of producing universal rbcs, which would improve the blood supply while enhancing the safety of clinical transfusions”.
our study shows that the virus is spreading west, and that there have  been three separate introductions of h5n1 in europe, the middle east and  africa.”
but many experts feel it is no coincidence that a  steep drop in infant deaths followed the start of an intensive home-visiting  system run by the cary christian center, using local mothers as counselors.
nearly two-thirds of costs were billed to the government: medicare covered nearly half of the stays, and 18 percent were billed to medicaid.
hfrs was last on  a rampage in russia in 1997, coinciding with another very warm winter.
now,  health officials are broadening their push to educate more women about their  heart risks.
but at the fourth, a major urban teaching hospital with consistently high occupancy rates, exceeding 100 percent for more than three months, workload increases and higher patient-to-nurse ratios were associated with more adverse events.
in addition, the proposed rule includes provisions to ensure that medicare no longer pays hospitals for their additional costs of hospital-acquired conditions (including infections), and includes an expanded list of publicly reported quality measures.
the proposed ncd opens a 30-day comment period.
oracle’s peoplesoft applications provide mainegeneral health with enterprise-wide visibility into financial data and expanded reporting capabilities that will help the organization close financial books much faster.
“if you look at  statistics of women who’ve died suddenly of heart attack, two-thirds died  before they could reach the hospital,” goldberg said.
the enriched environment mice recovered long term memories while mice kept in a bare cage on their own did not.
the coalition for healthcare estandards (ches) is launching an educational  webinar series focusing on the need for supply chain data synchronization to  reduce costs and increase efficiencies in the u.s. health care industry.
additionally, such health information technologies promote affordability by allowing physicians to know which medications are covered by their patients’ part d plans.”
two of the drugs have already been approved for clinical use: cetuximab and celecoxib, while the third, gm6001, is still experimental.
the goal of the newly created centers is to provide the federal government with important information to inform public health strategies for controlling and lessening the impact of seasonal influenza as well as an influenza pandemic.
madjid, who is assistant professor of medicine at the university of  texas-houston, and a senior research scientist at the texas heart institute in  houston, worked with colleagues in the us and in st. petersburg in the russian  federation to investigate deaths between 1993 and 2000 in st. petersburg that  had been shown by autopsy reports to be due to coronary heart disease.
pain often is felt lower in  the chest and mistaken for a stomach problem.”
by blocking the ccr5 co-receptor, ccr5 antagonists stop strains of hiv known as “r5-tropic”, an hiv variant that is common in earlier infection.
maryland ranked 15, the district 27, and virginia 37.
li-huei tsai, picower professor of neuroscience in the department of brain and cognitive sciences and her colleagues got the same results when they gave the brain atrophied mice a new type of experimental drug called histone deacetylase (hdac) inhibitors.
that same year, fda initiated an internal review of its ability to monitor post-approval studies.
substance abuse and mental health services administration administrator terry cline, ph.d., said, “the significant number of hospital stays related to mental health and substance use disorders signals the need for an increased national effort to identify and intervene early before the conditions require a hospital stay.
“we continue to believe that arcoxia has the potential to  become a valuable treatment option,” lindemann said, adding that merck  would continue to sell the drug outside the united states.
this rule also proposes to modify the low utilization payment adjustment (lupa) and to eliminate the significant change in condition payment adjustment.
this feature enables cdc to better display health recommendations, guidelines and upcoming events.
a  study published in 2004 compared the care of va and non-va patients in 12  communities, using 348 quality indicators as the yardstick.
the  seizure follows an fda inspection of the shelhigh manufacturing facility last  fall, as well as meetings with the company at which fda warned shelhigh that  failure to correct its violations could result in an enforcement action.
fda was aware of dangers to food; outbreaks were not  preventable, officials say the food and drug administration has known for years about contamination  problems at a georgia peanut butter plant and on  california spinach farms that  led to disease outbreaks that killed three people, sickened hundreds, and  forced one of the biggest product recalls in u.s. history, documents and  interviews show.
this blood loss was also attributed to poor uterine activity in the obese group.
for fact sheets on the proposed rule see  this link or   this link staph aureus infection rates on the rise in u.s. hospitals findings presented at the society of healthcare epidemiology of  america annual meeting further demonstrate that there has been a significant  increase instaphylococcus aureus (commonly referred to as staph aureus) infection rates among patients in u.s. hospitals, resulting in longer  hospitalizations and millions of dollars of excess healthcare costs.
rodriguez, arias, monteagudo, vega, galdos and balladares were also accused of money laundering in alleged attempts to hide the money from federal authorities.
there is no cure for dengue infection, but management of  the disease’s effects can prevent the worst outcomes.
this study presents the first documentation of the full impact of mental health and substance abuse disorders on u.s. community hospitals.
physician ties to drug industry stronger than ever despite the potential for conflict of interest, virtually all practicing  physicians in the u.s. have some form of relationship with pharmaceutical  manufacturers but the nature and extent of those relationships vary, depending  on the kind of practice, medical specialty, patient mix, and professional  activities, reports a study in the april 26 issue ofthe new england journal  of medicine.
the proposal sets a sliding scale of affordability  standards in which, for example, a single person earning $40,001 a year would  be expected to pay no more than 9 percent of income, or about $300 a month, for  health insurance; a single person earning $25,000 a year would be expected to  pay a much smaller percentage, about 3.3 percent of income, or $70 a month.
“the problem i see is that, yes, women are much more knowledgeable, but  they aren’t translating that knowledge into action,” said dr.  jennifer mieres, director of nuclear cardiology and associate professor of  clinical medicine at new york university school of medicine, and a national  spokeswoman for the american heart association.
the rats given candesartan, however,  showed the additional benefit of improved function while the rats receiving the  other blood pressure medications had less benefit.
campaign, which includes an online self-survey to evaluate an individual  woman’s specific risk factors.
“this achievement represents a major milestone in our battle against diabetes.
most patients given cox-2  inhibitors and nsaids are elderly, and evidence to date suggests that both drug  types boost the chances of heart attack and stroke.
if the initial test indicates a possible problem, physicians could refer the patient to a research hospital for further evaluation.
amerinet will negotiate contracts on behalf of st. theresa medical complex, and make available an array of competitively priced, quality products and services provided by industry leaders.
in those cases, arteries have difficulty dilating during exercise or exertion, causing extreme fatigue in women.
medassets supply chain systems and m cubed medical join forces to  help decrease costs for physician practices medassets supply chain systems announced an exclusive affiliate agreement  with m cubed medical, a newly formed specialty group purchasing organization  headquartered in webster city, ia.
meanwhile, the approval and availability of this vaccine will enhance national  readiness and the nation’s ability to protect those at increased risk of  exposure.
pork from animals raised on the farm has been recalled.
for further information you can contact; bob simpson, president of leesar @ 239-303-3402.
nationally recognized dr. gene schneller, professor and director of the health  sector supply chain initiatives at the w. p. carey school of business at  arizona state university, will also participate, presenting and accepting  questions regarding his current research.
“it matters who does the surgery,” said dr. ilana cass, director of the gynecologic oncology fellowship program at cedars-sinai medical center, los angeles, and a gynecologic oncologist.
“this is a proactive step,” said david acheson, chief medical officer of the fda center for food safety and applied nutrition.
balog was accused of being the owner of record of r&j from november 2002 to august 2004.
bardis extended a job offer to callahan that day, and justin  has been a medassets’ employee since he officially retired from the  military three years ago.
at three of the four hospitals, the rate of adverse  events did not appear to increase at times of peak workload.
‘live’ web cast opportunity to see computer-assisted knee  replacement surgery on wednesday, april 18 at 4:00 pm edt (20:00 utc/gmt) web viewers will  have a unique opportunity to witness a “live” total knee  replacement surgical procedure that employs a state-of-the-art  computer-assisted surgery (cas) system from orthosoft inc. orthosoft is an  international company that develops and markets software applications,  instruments and computerized medical systems that help improve the accuracy of  knee, hip and spine procedures.
the  proposed rule would require a hospital to notify all patients in writing if a  doctor of medicine or doctor of osteopathy is not present in the hospital
the authors suggest that the primary reason for these differences is that  hospitals may be more likely to have policies and practices in place that limit  physician contact with industry representatives.
furthermore, the panel identified gaps in existing knowledge, and new research requirements needed to help develop a greater understanding of weight and body shape and their link to chronic diseases such as cardiovascular disease and diabetes.
once the desired angle has been selected, a stainless steel pin  locks the angle securely into position.
mainegeneral health automates business processes with oracle oracle announced that mainegeneral health, the parent corporation of a network of an acute care hospital, physician practices, long-term nursing care, homecare, behavioral health, and assisted living and retirement communities, has recently deployed oracle’s peoplesoft enterprise financial management 8.9 to automate and manage business processes, as well as enhance operational efficiency.
the study’s authors  also suppose that statins may work like penicillin, since the first statin was  originally derived from a fungus which, it is theorized, secretes a statin as a  way to starve other competing microorganisms that require cholesterol to  survive.
according to a governor’s office report, florida has far fewer aids/hiv cases than california or new york, but florida providers submitted claims for aids/hiv cases that were more than three times the claims from california and five times more than from new york, according to the report.
the four genes are: ereg, mmp1, mmp2 and cox2.
cms is proposing to revise the current drgs so that the system will  continue to be based upon a non-proprietary case mix system making it available  to the public.
“i was pleasantly surprised by the high prevalence of immunity,” commented dr. redd.
when complete, the medical complex will consist of a 42-bed, long-term acute care hospital, a 55-bed rehab hospital, an ambulatory surgery center and a diagnostic radiology center.
in eight of them, the epca-2 was high, suggesting that the epca-2 test  would flag some men who turn out not to have cancer, although probably not as  many as the psa test does.
consumers can reduce their risk for foodborne illness by following  safe food-handling recommendations and by avoiding the consumption of  unpasteurized milk, raw or undercooked oysters, raw or undercooked eggs, raw or  undercooked ground beef, and undercooked poultry.
recommended options for treating gonorrhea  are now limited to a single class of antibiotics known as cephalosporins.
mrsa’s resistance to many antibiotics and potential to cause harm to people with both normal and compromised immune systems have raised alarm among many healthcare workers.
“this is a very important finding that  associates defects in this gene with neural tube defects in these specific  families,” said marcy c. speer, director of the duke university center  for human genetics in durham, nc.
being too heavy is clearly linked  with many cancers, including cancer of the breast, colon, endometrium,  esophagus, and kidney.
the aim now is to test a more comprehensive set of measures over a longer period and get them adopted as standard procedure, according to mary gorman, a vice president overseeing the project at nachri.
the study, funded by grants from the institut pasteur foundation, sanofi pasteur and sanofi pasteur-msd, was conducted over a 20-month period in four countries, canada, france, germany and the united states.
the medcac proposed several recommendations, subsequently reviewed by a federal panel led by the agency for healthcare research and quality (ahrq).
these products are used to treat nausea and vomiting in adults and children.
april 6, 2007april 6, 2007 statins linked to lower risk of infection; markedly lower frequency of sepsis in dialysis patients observed touro infirmary selects broadlane for supply chain services criteria for depression are too broad, researchers say research shows masimo acoustic respiratory monitoring technology provides “significantly more reliable monitoring of respiration rate” bird flu kills indonesian teen, toll at 73 an indonesian teenager died of bird flu in the bustling capital of jakarta, bringing the toll in the country hardest hit by the virus to 73, a health ministry official and doctor said friday.
primary input variables included the marginal effect of staph  aureus infection on expenditures, prevalence of nasal staph aureus carriage,  sensitivity and specificity of the rapid staph aureus screening device,  efficacy of nasal staph aureus colonization suppression and cost data.
most researchers attribute the spike to the unusually warm weather, although some think a natural cycle in mouse populations may play a role.
“much of the suffering and death from cancer could be  prevented by more systematic efforts to reduce tobacco use, improve diet,  increase activity levels, and expand the use of established screening  tests,” said john r. seffrin, phd, national chief executive officer of  the american cancer society.
finding a replacement that catches fewer healthy men, but more of those who do have cancer, would help settle at least one of the clinical conundrums concerning prostate cancer.
“most of the states are failing in one or  more areas, and some of them are failing in most areas,” ramirez de  arellano said.
the analysis showed qrng continued to rise among msm; 38 percent of  msm gonorrhea cases were qrng in the first half of 2006, compared to 1.6  percent in 2001.
they concluded  that masimo’s new bioacoustic respiratory sensor “demonstrates  accuracy for respiratory rate monitoring as good as capnometry” and that  the device “offers multiple benefits over existing devices and has a  potential to improve monitoring in a general care setting.”
in an accompanying editorial, ban mishu allos, md, and william schaffner, md,  of vanderbilt university school of medicine, noted that adults account for most  new cases of hbv infection in the united states, and that current  recommendations based on such risk factors as sexual activity and intravenous  drug use have resulted in meager vaccination rates.
the cambodian ministry of health said the 13-year-old girl, from ponhea kreak  district in kampong cham province, developed symptoms april 2, was hospitalized  the next day and died april 5.
“it is the first immune globulin product, one of  several classes of proteins derived from human plasma, approved for this  use.”
and the study showed that computer-aided detection was finding proportionately more very early precancerous growths.
when the genomes of the finnish participants were scanned for all 10  diabetes-associated genetic variants, researchers could identify individuals  whose genetic profiles placed them at increased risk for type 2 diabetes,  including one subset of people who faced a risk four times higher than those at  the lowest genetic risk.
einhorn says studies show that intense, early treatment with improved diet,  daily exercise and medications when needed can lower blood-sugar levels and  prevent or at least delay complications.
to account  for the changes in case-mix that are not related to a home health  patient’s actual clinical condition, this rule proposes to reduce the  national standardized 60-day episode payment rate by 2.75 percent per year for  three years beginning in cy 2008.
the findings are consistent with a number of studies, including one last  year that found american adults have poorer health than their british  counterparts, and a preliminary analysis of data collected between 1972 and  2003 for the national health interview survey, a nationally representative  survey of more than 100,000 americans.
projected aggregate spending from the reforms will not change.
the  hospital has since closed.
the new report encourages agencies involved in disability monitoring to adopt the world health organization’s international classification of functioning, disability and health (icf) as their conceptual framework.
it also links seamlessly with other attainia’s software products that vha  members may have purchased.
but, he added,  “programs take money, and mississippi is the poorest state in the  nation.”
the agency said it had not yet decided whether to take any action against lilly.
after 2009, cms will expand the program to additional areas and items.
alzheimer’s disease cannot be confirmed until a patient has died and his or her brain has been examined.
mild cognitive impairment-particularly a type known as amnestic mild cognitive impairment, which affects memory more significantly than non-amnestic mild cognitive impairment-is increasingly recognized as a transitional state between normal functioning and alzheimer's disease.
should all women in their 40s be routinely screened for breast cancer?
prof tsai, who is also a howard  hughes medical institute investigator, said: “this is exciting because  our results show that learning ability can be improved and ‘lost’  long-term memories can be recovered even after a significant number of neurons  have already been lost in the brain.”
“relying on autopsy  reports rather than death certificates enabled us to be much more accurate  about the cause of death, because doctors often neglect to list flu on a death  certificate if their patients have died from a heart attack and, conversely,  heart attack symptoms can be missed in patients suffering from flu and  pneumonia.”
the psa test casts a net that is  too big and too full of holes.
early trials have suggested not, but it highlights the importance of keeping an eye on the impact of the drug over the coming years should it pass the fda and european approval.
everyone accepts that.”
however, the farther a woman was from the onset of menopause when she began hormone therapy, the greater her risk of chd due to hormone therapy appeared to be.
the guidance makes it clear that  nearly all hospitals, including specialty hospitals and others without  emergency departments, must be able to evaluate persons with emergencies,  provide initial treatment, and refer or transfer these individuals when  appropriate.
as part of the health careers foundation, hire heroes will help veterans returning from operation iraqi freedom and operation enduring freedom with any level of disability as determined by the united states department of veterans affairs.
in the  prospective, multi-center trial, which was funded by 3m health care, clinical  nasal swabs were collected from various patient groups at 11 u.s. sites,  including inpatients screened for mrsa through active surveillance, inpatients  and outpatients requiring hemodialysis, inpatients and outpatients with  hiv-infection, pre-op cardiac surgery patients and patients admitted from  long-term elder care.
then, using bioinformatics algorithms they had created, the team sorted through the data and identified a new infectious agent, a virus that was sufficiently different from any known virus that it could not have been detected using existing diagnostic methods.
interestingly, when we took uterus muscle samples from the overweight women and studied them in the lab they also performed poorly and contracted less well than matched samples from normal weight women.”
it is unclear whether boomers are really sicker or are simply more health-conscious by dint of being better educated and having better access to information.
“what you’re talking about is a potential public  health disaster” if arcoxia is approved for sale, dr. david graham, an  f.d.a. safety officer, told the panel.
sick and dead poultry were reported in the village in recent weeks, according to who, and the girl reportedly had eaten part of a sick chicken before she became ill.
he is the primary architect of the strategies for  strategic sourcing, product formulary management, technology assessment and  demand pull inventory, all programs being implemented at tuhs.
patient-safety incidents with the greatest increase in incident rates were post operative sepsis (34.28 percent), post-operative respiratory failure (18.70 percent) and selected infections due to medical care (12.23 percent); and patient-safety incidents with the highest incidence rates were decubitus ulcer, failure to rescue and post-operative respiratory failure.
another one is what doctors should do when the family of a dying person who agreed to be a donor objects to surgeons taking their loved one’s organs.
this last group is especially worrisome to physicians.
the software organizes and enhances communications between  caregivers regarding the status of patients, rooms, and the availability of  clinical staff.
we believe that distinguished hospitals have deliberately chosen and maintained patient safety as a top priority.”
more alarming is that a deadly hemorrhagic form of  the disease, which adds internal and external bleeding to the symptoms, is  becoming more common.
sterilmed and the scope exchange merge sterilmed and the scope exchange have reached an agreement to merge.
the recalled olives had been distributed to wholesalers, who have marketed them nationally to restaurants and retail stores.
while the study “dramatically increased  the number of genomes that have been sequenced, we have to do more  surveys,” salzberg said.
although the health system would save money repackaging this product from direct bulk shipments, that was not the total reason this license was so important.
if approved, it will be the first drug available in the class called ccr5 antagonists.
he says people with diabetic complications  face health costs three times those of non-diabetics and can expect to spend an  average $1,600 per year in out-of-pocket expenses for care that averages nearly  $10,000 a year, most of it paid by insurance.
there is clearly a component to obesity that is genetic.”
for example, scientists in the us about 25  years ago managed to use a coffee bean glycosidase enzyme to strip the b  antigen from red blood cells.
ecri  institute renewing its mission to research best approaches to improve patient care,  nonprofit healthcare research organization today announces its new name: ecri  institute.
it identified 36 out of 40 men who had cancer confined to the prostate gland, and 39 out of 40 men in whom the tumor had spread.
no physician was working there when the staff first recognized he was in trouble.
this statement has been endorsed by the six  organizations that, along with the acs, make up the council on surgical and  perioperative safety.
johnson and johnson healthcare systems inc. will begin utilizing the contract commitment module later this year.
should such an influenza pandemic emerge, the vaccine may provide early  limited protection in the months before a vaccine tailored to the pandemic  strain of the virus could be developed and produced.
all sizes of cans, glass jars and pouches of cerignola, nocerella and  castelvetrano type olives are affected.
only in the case of someone grieving over the death of a loved one  is it normal for symptoms to last as long as two months, the manual says.
most researchers attribute the spike to the unusually  warm weather, although some think a natural cycle in mouse populations may play  a role.
the measure specifications document and other programmatic information  are available at this link.
to treat it, doctors implant a stent at the point of blockage, which reopens the blood vessel.
the stimulated mice’s brain cells had sprouted new dendrites and produced new synapses, in effect reversing the degeneration.
the ability to detect trends in physiological variables such as serum chemistry, cell counts, blood pressure and even weight is important to good decision-making.
sharp-tip suture needles are the leading source of penetrating injuries to surgical personnel, causing 51-to-71 percent of these incidents.
the finding complements a study fagan and her colleagues published last year in the same journal that found similar reductions in brain damage using the common blood pressure drug, candesartan, a popular drug in the class known as angiotensin receptor blockers (arbs).
some have speculated that it will accelerate the development of new strains of hiv that use other entry points.
for a  virtual tour seethis link.
giving patients too much  anti-anemia drugs can put their lives at risk.
amerisourcebergen is not doing business with any of the four customers cited by  the dea, and all of the pharmacies mentioned by the agency held active dea  licenses to sell controlled substances at the time amerisourcebergen sold  product to them.
fda concluded that additional warnings are needed because, to date, the company has not contacted importers with specific instructions on the recall.
the recommendation was prompted by new data released today in cdc’s morbidity and mortality weekly report (mmwr) showing that fluoroquinolone-resistant gonorrhea is now widespread in the united states among heterosexuals and men who have sex with men (msm).
under the clinical trial policy, first developed in september 2000,  medicare pays for certain items and services for medicare beneficiaries  involved in clinical trials.
virtual colonoscopies were only slightly less efficient than the traditional method, achieving an almost 38 percent reduction when polyps of all sizes were considered.
researchers looked at several variables that could be responsible for such a decline.
a clinical study was conducted to collect safety information and information on recipient’s immune responses and to determine the appropriate vaccine dose.
the industry user fees represent less than a quarter of the overall device budget for mdufma ii.
additionally, weiss pointed out that it appeared the drug was more effective in thinner people.
but, in what health experts call an ominous portent, progress has stalled and in recent years the death rate has risen in mississippi and several other states.
however, most people  are evaluated at community hospitals and clinics, where the diagnostic accuracy  is estimated to be around 75 percent.
using idf criteria, over 50% of canadians are considered abdominally obese.
nih officials had already looked into the 103 cases of possible conflict of interest in 2004, after a congressional inquiry suggested that scores of researchers may have taken drug industry money without approval.
“climate change is about more than a warming earth,” said david blockstein, senior scientist at the national council for science and the environment, a scientific advocacy group in washington.
more than 3,000 cases of infections caused by hantaviruses have been reported so far in russian cities and towns, including many that are within a few hundred miles of moscow, such as voronezh and lipetsk.
“the typical treatment for an emergency patient with a skin abscess is  incision, drainage and antibiotics, but it looks like incision and drainage  alone are enough,” said study author worth w. everett, md, of the  university of pennsylvania department of emergency medicine.
the proposal would streamline the third party inspection program, which allows for the use of accredited private sector auditors for routine inspections, by making it easier for manufacturers to participate in the program.
their findings also showed that travelers who acquire a second dengue infection are more at risk for severe cases of dengue, although some patients had severe symptoms when infected during their first trip to a dengue-endemic country.
the solution to this problem lies not in recruiting and training more personnel, but in reorganizing the critical care system nationwide, according to a report from a group of critical care stakeholders, led by university of pittsburgh school of medicine researchers and published in the april issue of the journalcritical care medicine.
“we hope this will minimize the number of unnecessary biopsies,” said robert h. getzenberg, a molecular biologist at johns hopkins hospital who developed the new test, which is still under study and not yet commercially available.
(the new york times) cheaper, easier virtual colonoscopy could boost detection a cutting-edge technology called “virtual colonoscopy” promises  fewer complications and better cost-effectiveness than traditional colonoscopy,  researchers report.
the process of metastasis or cancer spread is still much of a mystery to scientists.
the proposed case-mix model includes a proposal to replace the current therapy threshold at 10 visits per episode with three new therapy thresholds at six, 14, and 20 therapy visits.
the u.s. food and drug administration (fda) announced the first approval in the united states of a vaccine for humans against the h5n1 influenza virus, commonly known as avian or bird flu.
they were also more likely to report pain, drinking and psychiatric problems, and chronic problems such as high blood pressure, high cholesterol and diabetes.
the study showed that “premature cannula dislodgement  occurred in 14 patients” in less that 20 minutes, while “in no  patient was the bioacoustic sensor dislodged before the end of the stay in the  pacu.”
“it also solves the problem  of hard-to-read handwritten prescriptions.
“our research has shown that influenza epidemics are associated with a rise in coronary deaths.
even though the steps for preventing infections are fairly routine, he adds, “it’s easier said than done, and involves massive cultural shifts” for medical staff who are used to handling medical procedures their own way.
health  officials say china faces a severe shortage of human organs, estimating that  out of 1.5 million people who need transplants in china each year, only about  10,000 operations are carried out.
hospitals will have an easier time selecting safer products through an “industry first” effort by the premier healthcare alliance and cardinal health to standardize medical product terminology in online catalogs.
(washington post) russia sees ill effects of ‘general winter’s’ retreat experts have long feared that earth’s warming climate would cause tropical diseases such as malaria to spread into more temperate zones, but a dramatic example of an apparently climate-related disease outbreak cropped up this winter in a cold place, russia.
dupont introduces engineered elastic nonwoven technology to offer  stretch capability in a nonwoven fabric dupont announces the introduction of engineered elastic nonwoven  technology, a new offering that enables designers to provide unique elastic  functionality and deliver soft-stretch comfort.
paying for investigational clinical services if they are covered by medicare outside the trial or required under an ced through the ncd process; and expanding the “deeming” agencies to all dhhs agencies, the veterans administration, or the department of defense.
continuing to use the current oasis instrument ensures that providers would avoid any additional burden of reporting through a separate mechanism and any related costs associated with the development and testing of a new reporting mechanism.
now that there is convincing evidence that lowering blood pressure can be beneficial after stroke, fagan is working on a protocol for a human clinical trial that would identify what patient characteristics predict a good response to blood pressure lowering.
“prior conferences aimed at addressing this problem sought input  only from critical care professionals, who are a fraction of all the  stakeholders,” said dr. barnato, lead author of the report.
in addition, the agencies are not aware of any human illness that has  occurred from exposure to melamine or its by-products.
states revising organ-donation law; critics fear measure may not go far enough to protect donors state legislatures are rewriting legislation governing organ donations in one of the most ambitious initiatives in at least 20 years to alleviate the chronic shortage of kidneys, livers and other body parts, an effort that some doctors and ethicists fear tilts too far toward allowing organs to be taken.
the observatory, which is linked to the who global knowledge base, will provide an interface for health authorities and the general public to access data on donation and transplantation practices, legal frameworks and obstacles to equitable access.
for more information seethis  link.
they found that 11,892 people died from acute myocardial infarction (ami)  (47.8% men and 52.2% women), and 23,000 died from chronic ischaemic heart  disease (ihd) (40.1% men and 59.9% women).
“obesity is one of the most challenging problems  for public health in the uk.
easy-to-read gauge sizes on the  inserts make it simple to identify and alter gauge sizes in a darkened  ultrasound suite.
in the us as well as hospital-based dialysis  facilities there are independently owned profit based facilities that claim  back expenses for patient treatment, including anti-anemia epoetin, from  medicare.
poisoning, by overdosing prescription medicines or ingesting a toxic substance was the most common way patients attempted suicide.
“this agreement will provide us with more resources to solve our customer’s revenue cycle issues,” said neil hunn, president of medassets net revenue systems.
acapulco, a  city of 700,000, has documented 549 cases of classic and hemorrhagic dengue in  the first two months of 2007, up from just 86 for the same period last year.
the most controversial section deals with unconscious patients who have signed  donor cards but also “living wills” or other documents that state  that they do not want a ventilator or other medical care to keep them alive,  which is sometimes necessary to maintain organ viability until a transplant can  take place.
“the younger  generation is going to live sicker and die younger than their parents because  of obesity.”
rheumatoid arthritis drug may help treat type 2 diabetes a drug designed to treat juvenile rheumatoid arthritis may also be helpful  for managing type 2 diabetes, new research suggests.
at the start of the study, 20 percent had high levels of ldl, the  so-called bad cholesterol, and a third were overweight.
the novaplus catalog will be produced annually.
“i like to call it the  ‘i’m-sorry-i-killed-your-mother’ bill,” minicucci said.
the teams conducted several experiments, ultimately evaluating the parietal and occipital regions of the brains of 71 patients, some already diagnosed with alzheimer’s and some without alzheimer’s.
physicians should also monitor patients with a  shelhigh implant for infections and proper device functioning over the expected  lifetime of the device.
the new test is being  developed by researchers at johns hopkins hospital and onconome inc., a  seattle-based biomedical company.
with computer-aided detection, 31 percent more women were  called in for additional tests and 20 percent more had biopsies.
efforts are underway to raise the necessary operating funds to make this program a success.
the ehr-s functional model and the emergency care  function profile will facilitate solutions to underlying ed operational  problems such as overcrowding, ambulance diversion and shortage of services.
for the  healthcare supply chain human bird flu deaths reported in egypt, cambodia; china, indonesia  stillnot sharing virus samples with who the world health organization (who) has confirmed two new human  cases of the highly pathogenic h5n1 strain of avian influenza in egypt and  another case in cambodia, the first to be confirmed in that country in 2007.
sensatec fall management solution features: free bed & chair alarms; convenient & flexible program; easy-to-operate alarms; simple “plug & play” setup; volume/delay control; auto-on/auto-reset feature; low battery indication; nurse call integration; and protective silicon enclosure.
in the popular mind, the chief deficit in medical records is legible handwriting.
other drug companies are also working on ccr5 antagonists.
the reimbursement  comparisons were based only on medicaid programs using a fee-for-service  payment scheme.
johnson and johnson healthcare systems inc. will begin  utilizing the contract commitment module later this year.
according to the egyptian news agency, mena, she is being treated with the antiviral medication, tamiflu.
he says people with diabetic complications face health costs three times those of non-diabetics and can expect to spend an average $1,600 per year in out-of-pocket expenses for care that averages nearly $10,000 a year, most of it paid by insurance.
getzenberg and his colleagues tried  it on 35 men with severe “benign prostatic hypertrophy”,  enlargement of the prostate that sometimes makes the psa go up but is not  cancer.
they can warn of things that shouldn’t be done,  provide reminders of what should be done and monitor whatis done.
until those steps are fully implemented, today’s report starkly demonstrates the need to act to change medicare’s current growth trajectory.”
he succeeded  the retiring robert p. “bud” bowen.
the dea asserts that  amerisourcebergen did not maintain effective controls against diversion of  controlled substances, specifically hydrocodone, to four internet pharmacies  from january 1, 2006 through january 31, 2007.
“the fda is adding ‘black box’ warnings to all prescription and over-the-counter pain relievers, even to naproxen, which the evidence shows is safe,” said furberg, who serves on the fda drug safety and risk management advisory committee.
if a woman cannot find a center that does  10-plus procedures, finding a center and a physician that does at least more  than one a year is next-best option.
liver transplant patients who have  already been exposed to the hepatitis b virus (hbv) are at an increased risk of  reinfection because they have weakened immune systems.
“people often assume niacin is completely safe,” said dr. mittal.
for a fact sheet summary see this link.
the data submitted later was accurate, belt said.
but that doesn’t begin to describe the problem.
the study also suggested that drug treatment may often be inappropriate for people who are experiencing painful, but normal, responses to life’s stresses.
supportive therapy, on the other hand, may be useful, and may keep someone who has been through a divorce or has lost a job from going on to develop full-blown depression.
and when virtual screenings focused solely on lesions 6 millimeters and up nearly 12,900 additional unwarranted polyp removals were avoided.
the new study builds on previous research,  goff said.
m cubed medical serves the non-acute care  market including physician practices, clinics and ambulatory surgery centers.
little information about china’s lucrative transplant business is  publicly available.
federal and  state officials say they are now reviewing the guidelines to toughen the rules  and make them more specific.
in 2005, they found a number  of genes that help breast cancer to metastase to the lungs.
prostate cancer, the most common malignancy in men, is one of the more perplexing areas of medicine.
diabetes may be associated with increased risk of mild cognitive  impairment individuals with diabetes may have a higher risk of developing mild  cognitive impairment, a condition that involves difficulties with thinking and  learning and may be an intermediate step toward alzheimer’s disease,  according to a report in the april issue ofarchives of neurology, one of  thejama/archives journals.
he committed it to improving the health of americans.
the meeting is free to all providers.
http://www.cdc.gov/foodnet/. cdc changes recommendations for gonorrhea treatment due to drug  resistance; few treatment options remain
the department of veterans affairs is today one of the few health systems,  and by far the largest, that is virtually paperless.
prior to surgery, about  one-third of patients carry staph aureus in the nose, but do not have an  infection.
fda announces recommendations to reauthorize medical device user  fee program the u.s. food and drug administration (fda) proposed recommendations to  congress for reauthorizing the medical device user fee and modernization act  (mdufma ii), which, if adopted, would help to ensure that safe and effective  medical devices get to patients in a timely manner.
only 5  percent of the country’s 6,000 hospitals have computerized ordering of  drugs and tests, and even fewer have a fully integrated system like the  va’s.
effective april 1, 2007,  through february 28, 2010, this agreement includes patent-pending vendormate  vision service which delivers supplier registration, automated policy  acceptance, screening, rating, cataloging and physical access control.
epoetin therapy is the single largest medicare drug expenditure for  dialysis-related anemia, accounting for 1.8 billion dollars of expenditure in  2004, said the study authors.
hibcc & partners healthcare collaborate on patient safety standard the health industry business communications council (hibcc) and partners healthcare system have announced their joint development of a data standard to enhance providers’ patient safety systems.
it is one of  the largest public health initiatives ever tried by a private philanthropy.
agency officials said that some contaminated products, sold by pet food manufacturers as scraps, were fed to hogs in the carolinas, new york, california and utah, and that some of those animals tested positive for melamine.
bird flu has killed at least 170 people since it began ravaging asian poultry stocks in 2003, hitting indonesia the hardest, according to the world health organization.
the idea of “universal red blood cells” has been around for some time and its feasibility has been demonstrated in clinical trials.
the rapid diagnostic tests can take anywhere from five to 30 minutes to come up with a diagnosis.
likewise, adult smoking rates were also basically unchanged from 2004 to 2005.
some progress has been made since the  release of the two previous reports: the growth of assistive and  “mainstream” electronic technologies allows many people to interact  more easily with their environments; and advances in public health and medicine  have contributed to reduced incidences of certain injuries, developmental  disorders, and other potentially disabling health conditions.
for example, the  top-ranked state for the breadth of its eligibility criteria (rhode island)  scored 3.3 times higher than the lowest-ranked state (indiana) in that  category.
“the results were  quite clear to us: aggressive patient safety programs should consider testing  on admission as standard practice,” said study senior author and hospital  epidemiologist trish perl, m.d.  perl and her team, however, will wait for  evidence of improved patient safety before making any national recommendations  to government agencies and other hospitals.
“there are probably some patients that can benefit a great deal by having their blood pressure lowered within that first 24 hours after a stroke,” fagan said.
“our mission is to be the bridge to the right healthcare career fit for our returning heroes,” said bayne tippins, director, hire heroes.
in the computer simulation, all of these  “patients” (over the age of 50) were screened for colon cancer once  every decade for three decades, using either a standard colonoscopy, a flexible  sigmoidoscopy, a virtual colonoscopy, or a combination thereof.
the item must be furnished as part of their professional services.
latin america’s hospitals are ill-equipped to handle major outbreaks, and officials say the virus is likely to grow deadlier, in part because tourism and migration are circulating four different strains across the region.
the study compared the  effectiveness of weekly screening to current practices for ordering tests and  found the weekly model to be many times more effective than standard risk  monitoring, in which the highly contagious bacteria are looked for after  patients develop skin rash, fever or pain.
“rapid, pre-admission testing of patients could help hospitals better  identify patients that are colonized with staph aureus and in the appropriate  setting attempt to decolonize them to help reduce the risk of infection and  control costs,” said dillow.
though ebert takes the chief executive reins of amerinet, responsible for overall leadership of the organization, his professional elevation does not include the ceo title, which has been shelved.
in this study, prof tsai showed  it was possible to “re-established access to long-term memories after  significant brain atrophy and neuronal loss had already occurred”.
and last year was also bad for dengue: mexico documented 27,000 infections overall, including 4,477 hemorrhagic cases and 20 deaths, compared with 1,781 cases overall in 2001.
the other  nsaids are known as “non-selective.”
“five years from now this problem will have to be cured, or the  competitiveness of the united states will be dramatically affected,” said  j. randall macdonald, senior vice president for human resources at i.b.m.
vha rapid response team network saves lives in central atlantic region
“by the time she arrived, it was too late,” he said.
stephen kovach, healthmark’s director of clinical education, said “i have worked with ray for years, as a counterpart managing cs departments, as a colleague on various ashcsp and iahcsmm boards and activities and most recently on various aami sterilization standards committees.
since there’s no specific blockage, treating micro-vascular coronary disease is much harder.
diabetes could be related to a higher risk for amnestic mild  cognitive impairment by directly affecting the build-up of plaques in the  brain, a hallmark characteristic of alzheimer's disease, the authors  note.
if certain genetic variations are found more  frequently in people with the disease compared to healthy people, the  variations are said to be associated with the disease.
home health agencies (hhas) collect and report outcome and assessment information set (oasis) data.
to read the paper seethis link.
geisinger health system is leveraging several key system resources in an effort to develop a simple blood test to diagnose the disease.
influenza b viruses are associated with annual outbreaks of illness and increased death rates worldwide, according to the article.
for the  abstract, see this link.
for more information click here http://www.cdc.gov/std/gonorrhea/arg/ major genetic study identifies clearest link yet to obesity risk scientists have identified the most clear genetic link yet to obesity in the general population as part of a major study of diseases funded by the wellcome trust, the uk’s largest medical research charity.
the enriched environment mice recovered  long term memories while mice kept in a bare cage on their own did not.
healthtrust will be responsible for all gpo operations, including  contracting.
one possible explanation is the development of cases of disease in foods that previously were not associated with these diseases, such as spinach and peanut butter.
currently, more than 22 million seniors  and disabled people receive drug coverage under medicare.
for instance, some  patients are diagnosed with metastased tumours without the primary tumour every  being found.
in general, employers “are more interested  in reform today than at any time since the clinton effort” in the early  1990s, said robert s. galvin, global healthcare and policy director at general  electric, which provides health benefits for 460,000 employees and dependents  and 240,000 retirees and dependents.
high levels of sugar in the blood can damage veins, causing  vision loss, kidney disease and loss of circulation to the legs and feet that  can result in amputation.
contracts will be  awarded to a sufficient number of winning bidders in each cba to ensure access  and service to high quality dmepos items.
cass agreed that asking to be referred to a high-volume center and to be seen by a physician who is a gynecologic oncologist are both good steps.
additionally, touro infirmary will fully integrate into broadlane's technology and e-commerce exchange, broadlink.
pediatric intensive-care units also are adopting new programs to sharply reduce or eliminate urinary-tract infections for children with bladder catheters, and pneumonia for children on ventilators, the two most prevalent complications after bloodstream infections.
in the new guidelines, the organization  emphasizes the importance of using a woman’s concerns about breast cancer  and screening to help guide decision-making about mammography.
dr. joan massagué from the memorial  sloan-kettering cancer center in new york, has been working in this field for  some time.
kenneth gustke, m.d., founding member  of the american association of hip and knee surgeons, will perform the total  knee replacement surgery.
mcmurray’s study shows that the inserted segment grows when cells try to remove oxidative lesions, which are caused by byproducts of the oxygen we breathe.
hhs secretary mike leavitt said the report points to the need to act quickly and efficiently to strengthen and improve medicare, including enactment of the steps proposed in the president’s budget to address medicare’s fiscal health.
according to caroline smith dewaal, who heads the center for science in the public interest, a consumer-advocacy group, “when budgets are tight... the food program at fda gets hit the hardest.”
under the state health insurance assistance programs (ships), cms provides funding to 54 ships, including all 50 states, and the district of columbia, puerto rico, guam and the virgin islands.
there were also around 1,300 extra cases of  ovarian cancer diagnosed in the same period.
the industry user fees represent  less than a quarter of the overall device budget for mdufma ii.
it can progress to the point of permanent liver damage and lead to the potentially fatal cirrhosis.
the announcement brings to 291 the total number of human cases  confirmed by who since 2003, with 172 deaths.
in contrast, results for a traditional viral culture  test can take several days to a week.
information is passed via carbons, faxes and letters.
the program will be expanded into 70 additional msas in 2009.
“we will test a variety of foods and feeds because we need to know all there is to know” about the melamine contamination.
it shows that nearly 60% of people with diabetes have at least one of the complications caused by long-term failure to control the high blood-sugar levels tied to the disease.
nearly two-thirds of costs  were billed to the government: medicare covered nearly half of the stays, and  18 percent were billed to medicaid.
a new google-based search engine provides more relevant search  results.
some hdacs are already available to help chemotherapy drugs target dna by opening up the chromatin structure.
the agreement, which is expected to be finalized in may, will expand the offering of medassets net revenue services to include claims management, remittance management, denial management solutions, and an array of revenue cycle services and consulting.
it also identified many men, 14 out of 18, who had cancer but whose psas were normal.
in the paper, researchers say the primary concern voiced by participants was that the “utilization, organization and management of intensive care services in the united states was not optimal.”
“more than half of  the organizations that participated in the vha rapid response team network in  the region saw improvements in mortalities, percent of codes outside of the icu  and percent of patients that coded and survived.”
“we are getting ourselves out on thinner and thinner  ice,” said dr. suzanne w. fletcher, an emerita professor of ambulatory  care and prevention at harvard medical school.
in addition, the agencies are not aware of any human illness that has occurred from exposure to melamine or its by-products.
however, the researchers emphasized that their predictions of disease risk need to be interpreted with caution because the diabetes group in their sample was “enriched” with people who had affected siblings and because the healthy group excluded people who had impaired glucose tolerance or impaired fasting glucose.
the organization based its recommendations, which  will be published in the april 3 issue ofannals of internal medicine, on  a rigorous review of evidence showing there is variation in the benefits and  harms associated with mammography among women in their 40s.
for example, all states and the district also choose to cover uninsured poor  women needing care for breast or cervical cancer.
hepagam b is manufactured by cangene corp. of winnipeg, canada.
the unfortunate deaths of three organ transplant recipients in australia this past january has led to the discovery of a new virus.
“medicare is now providing up-to-date preventive benefits and comprehensive drug coverage and is developing better information on quality and costs of healthcare to ensure that we pay appropriately for the healthcare of our beneficiaries.
they looked for flaws in the data itself, changes in reproductive factors, changes in mammographic screening, changes in environmental exposures, changes in diet, and changes in use of hormone-replacement therapy.
the marketing applications for maraviroc are supported  by efficacy and safety data from two phase 3 trials.
that made it profitable for large centers  to use it.
geisinger health system is leveraging several key system resources in an  effort to develop a simple blood test to diagnose the disease.
a third of women were treated at a hospital that performed fewer than 10 ovarian cancer surgeries a year, not at the high-volume facilities that are considered superior.
diabetes was related to a significantly higher  risk of mild cognitive impairment overall and of amnestic mild cognitive  impairment specifically after controlling for other factors that may affect  risk, including age, ethnic group, years of education and heart and blood  vessel disease.
also, a higher percentage of women than men struggle with medical bills.
to learn more about the council’s members seethis link.
available in an easy-to-use spray, this delivery mechanism also helps target places in the hand that can often be missed by traditional sanitizers, such as fingernails, knuckles and spaces between fingers.
prognosis: predicting heart disease among the 20-somethings
egypt has the highest number of confirmed human bird flu cases outside asia.
the heart association continues to push its “go red for women”
scientifically, the discovery is fascinating, because the gene is found  throughout the animal world, conserved all the way from flies to humans,”  he said.
“until now, the studies have been primarily on samples from the far east.
they  said that a contaminated shipment of feed had been sent to a missouri chicken  farm as well.
surveying a wider  group of interested parties, we found that this isn’t necessarily the  best or only solution.”
the study showed that 45 percent of  individuals who received a 90 microgram, two-dose regimen developed antibodies  at a level that is expected to reduce the risk of getting influenza.
in addition, 240,000 women hospitalized for childbirth or pregnancy also had mental health or substance abuse problems.
for fy 2008, cms is proposing to adopt a high cost outlier threshold of  $23,015, down from $24,475 in fy 2007.
for more information, seethis link april 13, 2007 h ire heroes program launched to place veterans with  disabilities in healthcare jobs cdc report highlights growing foodborne illness challenges; e. coli  o157, salmonella, vibrio cause concern cdc changes recommendations for gonorrhea treatment due to drug  resistance; few treatment options remain major genetic study identifies clearest link yet to obesity risk f.d.a. rejects merck’s new pain medication materials managers invited to attend healthcare supplier &  provider institute meeting for free; new provider only session needle guidance now available for siemens’ new high-density  transducer rf technologies offers free sensatec bed and chair alarms as part  of trade-in program h ire heroes program launched to place veterans with  disabilities in healthcare jobs hire heroes, a program  designed to help veterans with disabilities find careers in the healthcare  industry, was launched today by health careers foundation, a non-profit  healthcare education organization.
under the medical device user fee program, industry covers a portion of the costs of fda’s pre-market review program through a variety of fees.
as part of the project, investigators from the weis center for research, the center for health research, the center for nutrition and weight management, and the department of surgery are combing through geisinger’s $80 million electronic health record to learn why some obese and overweight people develop nonalcoholic fatty liver disease and similar problems.
it’s about helping them grow stronger mentally and emotionally to have a more normal life.”
taurasi has been a member of ashcsp since 1969 and holds advanced membership status.
one in 10 of those  tests eventually proved abnormal enough to warrant action, more testing, a new  diagnosis or a change in treatment.
(medical news today) centers for medicare and medicaid services launches doq-it university the centers for medicare & medicaid services (cms) announced the  national launch of doq-it (doctor’s office quality information  technology) university, or doq-it u, to support health information technology  (hit) in physicians’ offices.
his long time experience both in managing of and in marketing to sterile processing departments means he has unique insight into our customers and their needs,” explained steven basile, vice president sales.
however, in some patients the quiescent, stable atherosclerotic plaques undergo sudden changes, mainly due to exaggerated inflammation, leading to rupture of these vulnerable plaques and subsequent formation of clots resulting in heart attacks.
recent estimates communicated to who by 98 countries show that the most sought after organ is the kidney.
sometimes, beta cells, insulin-producing cells, in the pancreas are destroyed in type 2 diabetes as they are in type 1 diabetes.
rare case of dental patient-to-patient hepatitis b virus  transmission recorded researchers have documented a case of hepatitis b virus (hbv) transmission  between two patients at a dentist’s office in the united states.
in a report to congress, hhs secretary michael leavitt announced the results of an electronic prescribing pilot project that support the adoption of new electronic prescribing standards.
amongst white europeans, approximately one in six people carry both copies of  the allele.
this study was part of the wellcome trust case control consortium, one of the biggest projects ever undertaken to identify the genetic variations that may predispose people to or protect them from major diseases.
bert zimmerli, amerinet’s chairman of the board, praised samolovitch  for his leadership role in the gpo’s move to a single organization from  the shareholder-based structure it operated under since its inception in 1986.
this study presents the first documentation of  the full impact of mental health and substance abuse disorders on u.s.  community hospitals.
the marketing applications for maraviroc are supported by efficacy and safety data from two phase 3 trials.
“once susceptibility genes are identified, researchers then can use this information to develop better approaches to detecting, treating and preventing disease.”
however, our findings also support that progress continues to be made at the top.
scientists at mit’s picower institute for learning and memory in cambridge, ma, put mice with induced brain atrophy in an enriched environment; a “playground” where they had the company of other mice, were given new colorful toys to play with every day, and were able to exercise on wheels.
the ever-expanding waistlines of both adults and children in america are also a serious problem.
in this role mosser serves as the senior executive responsible for the health system’s supply chain strategies and operations.
small steps lead to healthier hearts for women
the study shows that the new euro-african lineage, which was the  cause of fatal human infections in egypt and iraq in 2006, has been introduced  at least three times into the ema region and has split into three distinct,  independently evolving lineages.
the global solution to dengue outbreaks is mosquito control,  and faltering eradication efforts, together with climate change, probably share  blame for dengue’s rise in the americas, kuri said.
many of those children are  poor and live in neighborhoods where outdoor play is unsafe and access to fresh  fruits and vegetables is limited.
the payment reforms include a proposal to restructure the inpatient diagnosis related groups (drgs) to account more fully for the severity of the patient’s condition.
the highest- and lowest-ranked states differed in their scores by a factor of  two, 646 for massachusetts vs. 318 for mississippi.
“people often assume  niacin is completely safe,” said dr. mittal.
while  significant resistance to cephalosporins has not been observed to date, cdc is  working with state and local health departments to monitor emerging  cephalosporin resistance.
“women are more likely than men to go without  needed healthcare services because of costs, yet they still have higher  out-of-pocket expenses.
some 623 patients were taking ibuprofen, just over half of whom (57%) were also taking low dose aspirin.
in the same year, 21,000 livers and 6,000 hearts were transplanted.
for example, cardiologists are more than twice as likely as family practitioners to receive direct payments from drug companies for consulting and other services and are also significantly more likely to be paid honoraria than pediatricians, anesthesiologists, or surgeons.
it may also be that hospitals  are more likely to provide physician education through grand rounds and cme  events, rendering physicians in these facilities less dependent on industry  representatives as the source of medical education and information.
this is the only known case of patient-to-patient transmission in a dental setting.
this is to help eligible professionals to identify measures applicable to their practices and to prepare for submission of quality data in advance of the july 1, 2007 start date of the program.
according  to a governor’s office report, florida has far fewer aids/hiv cases than  california or new york, but florida providers submitted claims for aids/hiv  cases that were more than three times the claims from california and five times  more than from new york, according to the report.
overcrowded hospitals may risk adverse events on busiest days hospitals that operate at or over their capacity may be at increased  risk of adverse events that injure patients, according to a study led by  investigators from massachusetts general hospital (mgh) and brigham and  woman’s hospital (bwh).
(washington post)  to read the original article see this link.
that and the weak biosecurity standards in most rural areas point to  human-related movement of live poultry as the source of the introduction of  h5n1 in some countries.”
“these groups often stated the need for more trained providers.
historically, industry information describing the contents of a specific medical product has been inconsistent or non-existent, posing possible safety concerns.
the u.s. centers for disease control and  prevention now recommends that adults and adolescents be given a  tetanus-diphtheria-pertussis booster (tdap) in place of the tetanus-diphtheria  (td) booster to reduce the burden of pertussis in the united states.
any company wishing to market a product  containing trimethobenzamide in suppository form must now obtain an approved  new drug application prior to marketing.
the case report, by  john t. redd, md, mph, and colleagues from the centers for disease control and  prevention (cdc) and the new mexico department of health, describes the index  patient as a sexually inactive 60-year-old woman with no history of intravenous  drug use or other potential exposures to hbv who had undergone multiple tooth  extractions on a single office visit.
dupont introduces engineered elastic nonwoven technology to offer stretch capability in a nonwoven fabric dupont announces the introduction of engineered elastic nonwoven technology, a new offering that enables designers to provide unique elastic functionality and deliver soft-stretch comfort.
the studies, which were funded by 3m health care, were conducted by lead investigator dr. gary noskin, associate professor of medicine at the feinberg school of medicine, northwestern university and associate chief medical officer at northwestern memorial hospital.
neither fda nor usda has uncovered any  evidence of harm to the swine from the contaminated feed.
the new competitive bidding program, which is required by the medicare prescription drug, improvement & modernization act of 2003, will replace the current payment amounts, for the items being bid, under medicare’s dmepos fee schedule with payment rates derived from the bidding process.
floyd frost of  the lovelace respiratory research institute in albuquerque, new mexico, and  colleagues analyzed their institute’s database of medical records from  several health maintenance organizations.
another girl, a 15-year-old female from cairo governorate, developed symptoms march 30, was admitted to the hospital april 5 and died april 10.
“the annual capital budgeting effort  is painful for hospitals, which have been forced to develop budgets with  inaccurate or out-of-date information using labor-intensive processes,”  said nik fincher, senior director of capital asset services for vha.
as a vitamin, the daily recommended intake is 15 milligrams, but niacin is used in much larger doses to treat vitamin deficiencies and other conditions.
the new data, from cdc’s gonococcal isolate surveillance project (gisp) in 26 u.s. cities, showed that among heterosexual men, the proportion of gonorrhea cases that were fluoroquinolone-resistant neisseria gonorrhoeae (qrng) reached 6.7 percent in the first half of 2006, an 11-fold increase from 0.6 percent in 2001.
the next step is to start clinical trials to test the method’s treatment safety and efficiency.
it’s an exciting new marker,” said martin g.  sanda, a urologist at harvard medical school.
in fact, there are  major differences between these agents.”
researchers looked at several variables that could be responsible  for such a decline.
the proposal would  cost the state $13 million more than the $200 million it was planning to spend.
an experimental blood test for prostate cancer may help eliminate tens of  thousands of unnecessary biopsies at the same time that it detects many tumors  that are now missed by the test commonly used, its developers said.
in the new guidelines, the organization emphasizes the importance of using a woman’s concerns about breast cancer and screening to help guide decision-making about mammography.
but as many as 30 percent of women suffer from micro-vascular coronary disease, goldberg said.
this new three-year agreement creates a partnership of shared  responsibility to control costs and discover new revenue streams.
virginia, idaho, utah and south dakota have already adopted a model law designed to make organ donation easier by clarifying a host of sensitive questions.
the catalog offers information  on more than 1,300 products from the industry’s leading manufacturers and  features an easy-to-use format with a quick reference glossary.
providence lawyer steven minicucci, who handles malpractice suits, said displays of compassion are rarely useful in building such cases.
hepagam b works by providing an immediate immune response to the virus.
a new report from the  alzheimer’s association says there are now more than 5 million americans  living with the disease.
this new five-year agreement creates a partnership of shared responsibility to reduce costs and discover new revenue streams.
novaplus products include a wide range of products, including anesthesia, medical, pharmaceutical, radiology, respiratory and surgical products.
but, he added, “programs take money, and mississippi is the poorest state in the nation.”
with a staff of fewer than 3,000, including support personnel, the  agency’s drug division oversees more than 12,000 prescription medicines  and 400 nonprescription drugs.
the partnership will also  focus on total supply spend management, and margin improvement tools, including  cost reduction, contract evaluation and implementation, and education and  program coordination at all of the consortium’s facilities.
the final rule will be published in the federal  register on april 10.
from 1991 through 2005, the rate for blacks hovered at around 5 per thousand.
catherine loria, the lead author and an epidemiologist at the national heart, lung and blood institute, said even young people should be screened.
the ongoing  investigation and product reconciliation and testing have led to certain farms.
alan weil, executive director of the national academy for  state health policy, said the report fails to capture medicaid’s cutting  edge, experimental coverage programs, managed-care reimbursement schemes and  home-based care, because there are no data collected in all states that can  serve as grounds for comparing those components.
in those cases, arteries have difficulty  dilating during exercise or exertion, causing extreme fatigue in women.
“future research should address approaches for distributing workload and examine the effectiveness of strategies to improve safety in high-workload situations.”
they said that a contaminated shipment of feed had been sent to a missouri chicken farm as well.
investigations show that she had contact with backyard poultry.
the concern, critics say, is that federal grant money not go to scientists who may be predisposed to get results that favor their drug company sponsors.
“what it does is make sure that to free up an icu bed a hospital doesn’t forget the patient may have wanted to be a donor or their family may want them to be a donor.”
small businesses, a significant portion of device manufacturers,  would see additional benefits under the proposal.
besides rodriguez and arias, those indicted  were carlos enrique monteagudo, alain rhaf vega, marisol gonzalez torres, edith  balog, leonel galdos jr., william balladares, yulen arderi and jannette  morales.
“as a water-soluble  vitamin, it is easily excreted from the body.
antibiotics not necessary to treat most abscesses, even in the  presence of mrsa
the u.s. food and drug administration (fda) is alerting consumers to  possible serious health risks from eating olives that may be contaminated with  a deadly bacterium,clostridium botulinum.
the  hopkins researchers measured it in different groups of men whose cancer status  was known.
effective april 1, 2007, through march  30, 2010, this contract provides cost-saving opportunities to amerinet members  on asset recovery, new and used equipment sales,  repair/service/extended warranties, internal exchange program (through a  customized extra-net system), inventory and appraisal services, and equipment  planning.
but sharkey county, one of the poorest, has had a startlingly different record.
for more information please contact hays waldrop, president and  ceo, via email at hays@ihesllc.com or call (615) 794-2501.
the  ever-expanding waistlines of both adults and children in america are also a  serious problem.
the cost of the va’s electronic medical record, called vista (for  veterans information systems and technology architecture), is hard to measure.
the pcv7 vaccine has been part of the routine immunization schedule for  infants in the u.s. since 2000.
hdacs have been increasingly used by researchers in other fields, for instance in clinical trials with huntington’s disease patients.
fda officials conceded that the agency’s system needs to be  overhauled to meet today’s demands, but contended that the agency could  not have done anything to prevent either contamination episode.
the rapid  diagnostic tests have been around for several years and are widely used, with  some insurance plans covering them.
the study  was published april 22 as an advanced online publication innature and  led by cynthia t. mcmurray, ph.d., a professor of pharmacology at the mayo  clinic in rochester, mn.
the 2007 pqri quality measures relate to important processes of care that  are linked to improved healthcare quality outcomes.
zyprexa remains  lilly’s top-selling drug, with $4 billion in worldwide annual sales.
fagan and her team induced strokes in rats by occluding a major artery in  the brain.
overall dengue cases have increased by more than 600 percent in mexico since 2001, and worried officials are sending special teams to tourist resorts to spray pesticides and remove garbage and standing water where mosquitoes breed ahead of the peak easter week vacation season.
for a complete list of state health insurance counseling programs, seethis link.
the process of  metastasis or cancer spread is still much of a mystery to scientists.
in addition, overall  prescription drug costs have increased much more slowly during 2004-2006 than  in prior years.
sepsis is the leading cause of death in non-coronary  intensive care units in the united states, according to the u.s. centers for  disease control.
u.s. scientists have demonstrated a way to stop breast cancer spreading to other parts of the body by either switching off the genes involved or blocking them with drugs.
research shows the tests are having an effect on treatment.
in total, ovarian, endometrial and breast cancer account for around 40% of all cancers diagnosed in uk women.
hepatitis b is a serious disease caused by a virus that attacks the liver and can cause lifelong infection, liver cancer, liver failure and death.
in 2008, the competitive bidding program will operate in competitive bidding areas (cbas) within 10 of the largest metropolitan statistical areas (msas), excluding the new york, los angeles, and chicago msas and will apply to 10 of the top dmepos product categories based on criteria outlined in the final rule.
i look forward to drawing upon ray’s vast experience as we continue to expand our efforts in customer education and support.”
the fda has said its inspectors probably would not have found the contaminated food before problems arose.
the new test will not help solve the other major  clinical uncertainty in prostate cancer.
in 2005, they found a number of genes that help breast cancer to metastase to the lungs.
rapid testing has led to a decreased use of antibiotics in the treatment of children with the flu, according to a recent study conducted by rochester general hospital and the university of rochester school of medicine and dentistry.
during the first phase the research team plans to engage industry experts in the identification, evaluation, and selection of target metrics for the healthcare field.
the 2006 foodnet data indicated that the  incidence of infections caused by e. coli o157 and salmonella was similar to  1996-1998 baseline years.
costs were less than half that of traditional colonoscopy when broken down by year of life saved.
those pilot sites were achieve healthcare information technologies, llp, eden prairie, mn; brigham and women’s hospital, boston, ma; rand corporation, santa monica, ca; surescripts, llc, alexandria, va; and university hospitals health system, cleveland, oh.
if the damage becomes too great, a liver transplant may be needed.
as president, ebert “will  focus on continued implementation of the amerinet strategic business plan  adopted in june 2006,” he told healthcare purchasing news in a prepared  statement.
the  beneficiary’s liability is limited to 20 percent of the payment amount  and any unmet part b deductible.
diabetes could be related to a higher risk for amnestic mild cognitive impairment by directly affecting the build-up of plaques in the brain, a hallmark characteristic of alzheimer's disease, the authors note.
to assess whether or not this could have an effect on people with type 2 diabetes, the researchers randomly assigned 36 people to receive a once-daily placebo injection and 34 people to receive once-daily injections of 100 milligrams of anakinra for 13 weeks.
ahrq also found that patients who have been diagnosed with both a mental health condition and a substance abuse disorder, those with “dual diagnoses”, accounted for 1 million of the nearly 8 million stays.
the analyses also suggest that the increased risk in heart disease due to hormone therapy in older women is primarily in those who also have hot flashes and night sweats.
cms is creating a limited exception to the competitive bidding requirement that will allow certain treating professionals to furnish items on the competitive bidding list to their own patients without having to participate in bidding and without becoming a contract supplier.
“we were in constant communication with  police, so we knew what was coming.”
to learn more about the hire  heroes organization, please visit www.hireheroesusa.org, or contact bayne  tippins, director, hire heroes, 1-866-915-hero.
however, cms  proposed to lower the outlier threshold to meet the legal requirement to  continue paying between 5 and 6 percent of payments as outliers.
scrushy neither admitted or denied the sec’s allegations, and will receive credit for $71.5 million he has already paid or forfeited in related cases, cutting the remaining bill to $9.5 million.
if the initial test indicates a possible problem, physicians  could refer the patient to a research hospital for further evaluation.
they broadly agreed that there was a need to regionalize and tier the critical care system, similar to what previously had been done by the u.s. trauma system.
state officials said that under the plan, they expected that all but about  65,000 of the 328,000 adults who are currently uninsured would be able to get  affordable coverage.
this discovery, along with further results expected from the wellcome trust case control consortium later this year, will open up a wealth of new avenues to understand and treat common diseases.”
the plaque distributes more evenly throughout the blood vessels, slowing blood flow without creating a flow-stopping kink.
on average, these hospitals had a 40 percent lower rate of patient-safety incidents when compared with the poorest-performing hospitals.
if left  untreated, people infected with pertussis can spread the disease for several  weeks.
four medassets analytical systems customers received utilization  excellence awards: erlanger health system, medcath, wellmont health system and  atlantic health system.
norton healthcare received medassets net revenue  systems customer of the year award, and maricopa integrated health system was  recognized as medassets net revenue systems best practice leader.
the rule proposes to increase payment for lupa episodes that  occur as the only episode or the first episode during a series of home health  episodes to account for the initial greater costs in such episodes.
the affiliation with medassets will provide additional savings opportunities and access to medassets’ cdquick, a best-of-breed contract catalog.
however, biopsies  can pose health risks because of the potential for bleeding from the liver or  for infection.
in a $1.1-million  national institutes of health’s national institute on aging study that  team members conducted during the last three years, they determined early  alzheimer’s could be diagnosed with a high rate of accuracy evaluating  electroencephalogram (eeg) signals.
if certain genetic variations are found more frequently in people with the disease compared to healthy people, the variations are said to be associated with the disease.
“women are more likely than men to go without needed healthcare services because of costs, yet they still have higher out-of-pocket expenses.
for more information seethis link
it also gives organ procurement organizations the power to  keep potential donors on life-support while they evaluate their organs’
this calls for more intensive efforts to increase the vaccination rate in people at risk of coronary heart disease.
all 12 consorta shareholders are participating in the combination, along with consorta affiliates.
the second annual enterprise  president’s award was presented to atlantic health for its improved  financial performance achieved through the complete medassets enterprise  solution platform including supply chain innovation and other technology  solutions.
the new test will not help solve the other major clinical uncertainty in prostate cancer.
the cancer typically shows few symptoms until it is diagnosed in its advanced stages.
in two studies released in january at the 2007 society for technology in anesthesiology annual meeting, researchers monitored ten postoperative adult icu and six pediatric pacu patients in separate studies with masimo’s arm technology as well as a nasal cannula connected to a capnometer.
“given  widespread concerns about antibiotic misuse and antibiotic resistance, this  could change how we treat this very common emergency department complaint for  both adults and children.”
collectively, the centers will expand niaid’s influenza surveillance program internationally and in the united states, and will bolster influenza research in key areas, including understanding how the virus causes disease and how the human immune system responds to infection with the virus.
a merck spokeswoman, kyra  lindemann, said the company was “disappointed in today’s
although these findings did not meet statistical significance, they suggest that the health consequences of hormone therapy may vary by time from menopause.
because of the ongoing controversy, the american college of physicians’ clinical efficacy assessment subcommittee decided to take its own look at the evidence related to screening in women in their 40s.
the guidelines also recommend that: first-line treatment for  overweight and obese adults should consist of diet changes and regular  exercise, supported by behavior change; if unsuccessful, treatment with  medications or bariatric surgery should be considered; starting at 10 years of  age, overweight or obese canadians should undergo screening that would include  tests measuring levels of fasting glucose, hdl (the good) and ldl (the bad)  cholesterol, and triglycerides (a form of fat in the blood) levels.
“doctors  want women to realize that simple steps can make a world of difference in terms  of your heart health,” said mieres.
only around 42% of adults 50 and older have been screened for colorectal  cancer in the appropriate time frame.
a person exposed to one strain may develop immunity to that strain, but subsequent exposure to another strain makes it more likely the person will develop the hemorrhagic form.
in order to examine their hypothesis that increased workload could raise  the likelihood of adverse events, the investigators examined data from four  hospitals in two states, two large urban teaching hospitals and two suburban  teaching hospitals, over the 12 months from october 2000 through september  2001.
“huntington’s disease is a progressive disease, but nobody knows  exactly why,” said mcmurray.
sturm said the latest findings challenge a common belief held by physicians that people who are obese are a fixed proportion of the population and are not affected by changes in eating and physical activity patterns in the general population.
we saw the need to  purchase capital equipment in bulk.
the principles, part of the paper  “developing a fair process through which physicians participating in  performance measurement programs can request a reconsideration of their  ratings”, also address performance ratings that do not take into account  the characteristics of the practice or patient population being treated prior  to the release of ratings to the public.
“future research should address approaches for distributing workload and  examine the effectiveness of strategies to improve safety in high-workload  situations.”
healthtrust will be responsible for all gpo operations, including contracting.
in the study released at the recent iars, conducted by m. r. macknet, md and a team of researchers at loma linda university's department of anesthesiology, fifteen pediatric pacu patients were monitored with masimo's arm technology consisting of an adhesive bioacoustic sensor applied to the patient’s neck and connected to a breathing frequency monitor prototype.
a study presented saturday at the society for healthcare epidemiology of  america (shea) annual meeting found that patients in long-term elder care and  hiv-infected outpatients appear to be high-risk groups for carriage of  methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus (mrsa), a common cause for  healthcare associated infections.
in addition,  “green corner” expands the premier environmentally preferable  purchasing (epp) program’s public suite of offerings, which currently  includes electronic tools to support critical environmental efforts such as  mercury pollution prevention and computer recycling.
as president and newly named chief operating officer, ebert would oversee “customer-facing operations,” such as contracting, marketing and sales.
touro infirmary will gain access to broadlane’s existing portfolio of contracts and, in addition, broadlane will assist touro infirmary in developing custom contracts and in managing various high physician preference item standardization and utilization efforts.
physicians should be able to review performance rates before release a policy paper and principles assuring that physicians are given the  opportunity to comment on performance ratings that they believe are inaccurate  were adopted this week by the american college of physicians (acp) at its  annual meeting april 19-21 in san diego.
the pqri  measures apply to services that eligible professionals provide to medicare  beneficiaries in their offices and other settings.
statins may regulate the immune response to infection or fight microbes directly, powe suspects.
touro infirmary  subsidiaries include woldenberg village, crescent city physicians, touro at  home and metro lab and the combined annual supply spend is in excess of $50  million.
but it did lead to many more false alarms that resulted in additional testing and biopsies for spots on mammograms that turned out to be harmless.
“this agreement will provide us with more resources to solve our  customer’s revenue cycle issues,” said neil hunn, president of  medassets net revenue systems.
in the new study, a team of scientists led by professor henrik clausen  from the university of copenhagen in denmark, found a more abundant source of  glycosidase enzymes in bacteria.
a description of it appears in the journalurology .
the reasons for being judicious in using the tests, especially if done improperly, increasing the chances of an inaccurate diagnosis, are twofold, doctors say.
by assembling additional genetic sequences, the researchers determined that the new virus is related to, but distinct from, known strains of lymphocytic choreomeningitis virus (lcmv), which has been implicated in a small number of cases of disease transmission by organ transplantation.
lawyers who represent drug companies said the f.d.a. largely depended on the companies to be honest about the side effects of their drugs.
“this report gives healthcare policymakers an in-depth look at the impact of mental health and substance abuse care on the healthcare system.”
to solve this problem, vha inc., the  national health care alliance, and attainia inc., a provider of capital  equipment planning systems in healthcare, have co-developed a new web-based  software product to simplify and streamline the capital budgeting process.
landmark study shows at least 10 genetic variants are associated with adult onset diabetes
by 2000, that ratio had grown to approximately four  to one.
the integrity of independence.”
the  series brings together industry experts who are championing efforts to launch a  health care product data utility (pdu), similar to systems already successfully  streamlining the exchange of supply chain information in other large  industries.
physician ties to drug industry stronger than ever iom report: the future of disability in america prognosis: predicting heart disease among the 20-somethings cheaper, easier virtual colonoscopy could boost detection emergency medicine to benefit from the hl7’s first registered clinical profile medassets supply chain systems and m cubed medical join forces to help decrease costs for physician practices amerinet announces agreements despite the potential for conflict of interest, virtually all practicing physicians in the u.s. have some form of relationship with pharmaceutical manufacturers but the nature and extent of those relationships vary, depending on the kind of practice, medical specialty, patient mix, and professional activities, reports a study in the april 26 issue ofthe new england journal of medicine.
but “the report shows we are  failing in the primary mission of preventing complications,” he said.
lower respiratory death risk people who use statin drugs are less likely to die of influenza and  chronic bronchitis, according to a study that shows yet another unexpected  benefit of the cholesterol-lowering medications.
new scientific insights will hopefully pave the way for us to explore novel ways of treating this condition.”
in a joint statement released yesterday, energy and commerce chairman john d. dingell (d-mi) asserted that “nih bungled the investigation the first time around,” and ranking republican joe l. barton (tx) expressed hope that the inquiry “will finally sort things out so everyone can have confidence that the public's interest is being fully served.”
then they can test whether the  drugs they used with the mice will stop the metastasis to the lungs in humans.
“going green” not only is a smart way for hospitals to protect the environment, it also allows them to reduce operational costs, gain a competitive advantage and keep staff and patients satisfied.
many retailers, with large staffs of low-paid, temporary and part-time workers, would welcome a larger government role.
nearly three-quarters of these patients were between ages 18 and 44 and more than half were women.
by better recognizing severity of illness in the drgs, fewer cases would be paid as outliers.
while praised by transplant advocates, the model law has stirred concern among some doctors and bioethicists.
niaid expands capability for influenza research and surveillance the national institute of allergy and infectious diseases (niaid), part of the national institutes of health (nih), announced it is awarding $23 million per year for seven years to establish six centers of excellence for influenza research and surveillance.
dr. hall wrote an  editorial accompanying the paper, which was published today inthe
“xactimed’s solutions and services will complement as well as expand medassets’ revenue cycle suite, allowing us to provide an integrated, comprehensive offering to help healthcare providers improve their net revenue by improving business processes around billing and collections.
among new features on the home page: health and safety information is now grouped in broad, easy-to-browse topic areas.
but a review of published literature last month in the journalpediatric critical care by jana stockwell, a pediatric critical-care physician at hospital operator children’s healthcare of atlanta, concluded that infections can strike as many as 16% of children in pediatric units, a higher rate than in many adult icus, and increase the risk of death by up to 20%.
epca-2 is a protein that is part of the “nuclear matrix,” the scaffolding inside a cell’s nucleus that helps it copy its genes.
masimo expects to combine its masimo rainbow set read-through motion and low perfusion pulse oximetry with masimo arm technology as part of a general floor monitoring solution designed to increase patient safety and heed the growing call to find ways reduce unnecessary deaths on general care floors.
the proposed rule adds two national quality forum-endorsed measures to the 10 that are currently reported: emergent care for wound infections - deteriorating wound status; and improvement in status of surgical wound.
in late february, the ehr system functional model standard became the healthcare industry’s first ansi-approved standard to specify the functional requirements for an electronic health record system.
the robert wood johnson foundation plans to spend more than $500 million over  the next five years to reverse the increase in childhood obesity.
in a new set of guidelines for clinicians of 40-something patients, the group recommends that mammography screening decisions be made on a case-by-case basis.
new this year is the “healthcare provider only” meeting taking place on the first day, april 23 at 1:00 p.m.
the researchers assessed data  from 948,576 postmenopausal women who did not have previous cancer or bilateral  oophorectomy (removal of the ovaries) for five years.
“this is an epidemic that is going to cost the country in terms of morbidity and mortality and economically,” said dr. risa lavizzo-mourey, the foundation’s president and chief executive.
then they can test whether the drugs they used with the mice will stop the metastasis to the lungs in humans.
raul rodriguez and armando arias were accused of committing fraud  using coral way professional services and sunshine health center of miami, as  well as r&j medical services and n.r. medical services, both located in  miami-dade county.
scientific and academic organizations counter that adequate safeguards are  already in place and fear that many of the nation’s best scientists would  leave the federally funded research enterprise if options for outside income  were lost.
some 623 patients were taking  ibuprofen, just over half of whom (57%) were also taking low dose aspirin.
a 2003 study showed that 49  percent of patients suffered at least one medical error in the two months after  leaving the hospital, often because the outside doctors didn’t know what  was done in the hospital, or what was left to do.
callahan’s experiences raised awareness and understanding of the challenges veterans with disabilities may face when re-entering and adjusting to the workplace, which led to the creation of hire heroes.
wednesday, april 11, 2pm - 3pm eastern, “pdu: what’s in it for suppliers?”
catheters are a big focus of such efforts because they require an invasive  procedure that could allow bacteria to enter the body.
the broad dispersal of the different forms of the virus throughout the different countries over a relatively short period of time points to the possibility of human movement, rather than wild birds as the reason for the quick spread of the h5n1.
the vaccine could be used in the event the current h5n1 avian virus were to develop the capability to efficiently spread from human to human, resulting in the rapid spread of the disease across the globe.
at least 27 other states have already passed similar laws, nearly all of them in the past four years, according to the american medical association.
“so, here it was easy to show that virtual colonoscopy is a very effective way to filter out these people and hone in on those who really need the more invasive procedure,” he said.
but an apology and an admission of error could be key evidence.
the 15-year-old girl was admitted to  the sulianti saroso hospital for infectious diseases on monday and died late  thursday, said sandakan giriputro, a doctor at the facility.
combining the two companies’  expertise in the repair and reprocessing of medical devices will provide  customers with a comprehensive single-source supplier.
the new awards build upon an ongoing program led by st. jude children’s research hospital in memphis, tn, initiated by niaid after the 1997 hong kong outbreak of highly pathogenic avian influenza in humans.
now, reporting in the april 5 issue of thenew england journal of medicine, they say they have found three vangl1 mutations linked to neural tube defects in children treated at birth defect centers in italy and france.
patients at some  hospitals may find the staff resorting to what someone might do at home in a  crisis: call 911 for an ambulance.
“so we are especially  dependent on philanthropic support.”
“in this  cohort study of young women, we found no association between induced abortion  and breast cancer incidence and a suggestion of an inverse association between  spontaneous abortion and breast cancer incidence during 10 years of  follow-up,” the authors write.
“electronic prescribing improves efficiencies while  helping to eliminate potentially harmful drug interactions and other medication  problems,” secretary leavitt said.
authorities say she had been in contact with sick birds prior to becoming ill.
state officials say the county’s population is too small, it registers only 100 births a year, to be statistically significant.
“live donations are not without risk, whether the organ is paid  for or not.
unlike most inherited diseases, huntington’s disease symptoms usually don’t appear until middle age, leading scientists to wonder what triggers the disease onset and whether it can be halted, or at least slowed down.
at the start of the study, 20 percent had high levels of ldl, the so-called bad cholesterol, and a third were overweight.
this doesn’t change that balance,” said christina w. strong, who represented the association of organ procurement organizations.
the u.s. food and drug administration (fda) announced the approval of hepagam b for the prevention of hepatitis b reinfection in certain liver transplant patients.
a 2006 study by the kaiser family foundation and hewitt associates found  that premiums in the united states had risen about 87 percent since 2000.
consumers may also report illnesses associated with consumption of these olives to the nearest fda district offices.
during 39  percent of visits, the sales representative either gave or promised free drug  samples to the doctor, said steinman, who is also an assistant professor of  medicine at ucsf.
the donor must receive proper medical follow-up but this is often lacking when he or she is seen as a means to making a profit,” added dr. noel.
participants taking ibuprofen also developed congestive heart  failure more often than those on the cox inhibitor.
the regulations, which take effect may 1, are also meant  to standardize transplant procedures at the limited number of hospitals  licensed to perform them.
according to researchers on the pfizer trials, the priority now is to get the drug to the people who are running out of options.
robert a. dormer, a partner in the law firm of hyman, phelps & mcnamara, who represents drug companies, said that the companies did not have to provide every analysis they performed to the f.d.a. (the new york times) to read the original article seethis link.
health ministry official muhammad  nadirin confirmed that the girl’s lab tests showed she had contracted the  h5n1 virus, apparently after coming into contact with infected pet birds at her  home in central jakarta.
the new report encourages agencies involved in disability monitoring to  adopt the world health organization’s international classification of  functioning, disability and health (icf) as their conceptual framework.
in a $1.1-million national institutes of health’s national institute on aging study that team members conducted during the last three years, they determined early alzheimer’s could be diagnosed with a high rate of accuracy evaluating electroencephalogram (eeg) signals.
the measure awaits the signatures of the governors of arkansas, indiana, iowa and new mexico.
funding for such programs falls far short of what is  needed, the report says.
the doctors who set up the specialized  hospitals defend them by saying that by running the centers themselves and  concentrating only on certain procedures, they can provide the best results for  patients.
the proposed rule includes a provision to continue to adjust payment for reporting of quality data.
pregnancy may accelerate breast cell differentiation, the process by  which cells take on specialized roles.
our study shows that the virus is spreading west, and that there have been three separate introductions of h5n1 in europe, the middle east and africa.”
it is only if the bacteria enter other parts of the body, through a surgical incision, for example, that they can result in a serious infection.
the women’s socioeconomic status, reproductive history, previous use of oral contraceptives, body-mass index, alcohol and tobacco consumption did not appreciably alter the effect of hrt on their risk of developing ovarian cancer.
biologists estimate that the current population of rodents in russia is 10  times as high as in previous years, and that one in three mice is infected with  an hfrs-causing virus.
electronic record systems also bridge one of the more perilous  chasms in medicine: the transfer of care when patients leave the hospital.
off-label uses included treatment of pain, migraine,  and psychiatric conditions.
to treat it, doctors implant a stent at the point of  blockage, which reopens the blood vessel.
but, this compares with 13 g/dl, the maximum level recommended by the national kidney foundation, which dr. coyne says is about to revise its guidelines.
those states that have approved the  law already, however, will have to wait until next year to amend it.
“over the past year, vic has been instrumental in leading amerinet  through its organizational transition to one national group purchasing  organization,” zimmerli stated in a press release distributed to the  media this morning.
if a woman cannot find a center that does 10-plus procedures, finding a center and a physician that does at least more than one a year is next-best option.
in addition, contract suppliers must accept the single payment amount  established through competitive bidding as payment in full.
“we hope it can serve as a  first test for those folks who don’t have access to research  facilities.”
differences in hormone therapy effects were examined in three age categories (50 to 59, 60 to 69, and 70 to 79) or in years since the onset of menopause (less than 10, 10 to 19, and 20 or more).
in recent months, they assisted millions of beneficiaries with finding drug plans suited to their individual needs.
for years, doctors have been fighting the perception that heart disease is  a mainly male affliction.
the report also found that, with some adjustments, e-prescribing can work successfully in long-term care settings.
“people [in previous studies] have looked at this on a state-by-state basis.
the knowledge of the  genetic sequence of this new virus will enable improvements in screening that  may enhance the future safety of organ transplantation.
only 14 percent of those initially enrolled in the study were on statins.
“she died after experiencing multi-organ failure.”
and despite all those gym memberships, baby boomers tend to be less physically active than their parents and grandparents, their daily routines often dominated by desk jobs and the drive to and from work.
h5n1 influenza vaccine immunization consists of two intramuscular injections, given approximately one month apart.
madjid pointed out that the implications of the research  were even more important with a looming flu pandemic when a much higher  percentage of the population could be expected to catch the illness.
(washington post) to read the original  article see this link.
“the gold  standard is still a culture, but the gold standard is not timely, hence its  usefulness in diagnosis and treatment is limited,” poland said.
hill said that extra nurses and an additional surgeon were called in to help  treat more than a dozen patients sent to the 146-bed hospital.
medicare recently terminated its agreement with  the facility involved in the texas case, west texas hospital, a 14-bed hospital  in abilene that performed procedures ranging from plastic surgery to complex  spine operations.
individuals earning $30,630 to $50,001 would not be eligible for state  subsidies, but they would not be penalized if they could not find health  insurance priced at $150 to $300 a month.
through counseling, education and outreach, networks of local programs are  helping beneficiaries understand and utilize their medicare benefits.
it is unclear who will clearly benefit from aggressive treatment and who are likely to be able to live a normal life if the tumors are simply followed and removed only if they begin to cause symptoms.
while scientists have long suspected that oxidative lesions play a role in huntington’s disease, the specific role of the lesions has remained elusive until now.
mosser serves the temple university health system, as managing director supply chain services.
the  affiliation with medassets will provide additional savings opportunities and  access to medassets’ cdquick, a best-of-breed contract catalog.
scientists spot mutation linked to birth defects canadian researchers say they have found the first genetic mutation  clearly linked to neural tube birth defects such as spina bifida in humans.
dengue has been found along the u.s.-mexico  border, where 151 classic and 46 hemorrhagic cases were recorded last year in  the gulf state of tamaulipas, south of texas.
in this study, prof tsai showed it was possible to “re-established access to long-term memories after significant brain atrophy and neuronal loss had already occurred”.
in addition to locating and tracking operating room resources, the software translates interactions between patients, medical staff and equipment into time-stamped stages of a patient’s course of treatment.
professor wray  explained: “we suspect one reason preventing sufficient levels of calcium  entering the uterus muscles is the high levels of cholesterol in an obese  woman’s bloodstream.
the new cdc analysis shows an increase in the past five years in the  overall proportion of gonorrhea cases that are fluoroquinolone-resistant, from  less than 1 percent in 2001 to 13.3 percent in the first half of 2006.
although pertussis vaccination has reduced the number of reported cases in  industrialized countries by more than 95 percent from what it was in the 1950s,  the number of reported pertussis cases in the united states has tripled in the  past two decades.
by more accurately recognizing the costs of caring for a  patient, the new ms-drgs will further reduce incentives for hospitals to  “cherry pick,” the practice of treating only the healthiest and  most profitable patients.
federal funding agencies should invest more in the development, testing, and dissemination of promising interventions that will help people maintain their independence and ability to function in community life.
if we consider people who now have disabilities, people who are likely to develop disabilities, and people who are or will be affected by the disabilities of family members and others close to them, then disability will affect the lives of most americans.
computer-aided detection, the researchers wrote, “was associated with significantly higher false positive rates, recall rates, and biopsy rates and with significantly lower overall accuracy.”
uga study suggests that lowering blood pressure following stroke may reduce damage a new university of georgia study suggests that commonly prescribed drugs  used to lower blood pressure may help reduce brain damage when given within 24  hours of a stroke.
while the news about resistance is not  good and certainly calls into question some of the current assumptions about  drug-resistant viruses, an effective response to this news can help contend  with the new challenges of influenza.”
last  week, the fda notified california state health officials that hogs on a farm in  the state had likely eaten feed laced with melamine, an industrial chemical  blamed for the deaths of dozens of pets in recent weeks.
for one, they faced formidable opposition from the pharmaceutical and  health insurance industries, two of the most powerful lobbying forces on  capitol hill.
during that time, seven of the centers switched to computer-aided detection.
ultimately, the researchers identified four new diabetes-associated variations, as well as confirmed previous findings that associated six other genetic variants with increased diabetes risk.
“with these new data on ovarian  cancer, we expect the use of hrt to fall further.
they looked at incidence of influenza and pneumonia and of copd, and then cross-checked to see which patients were also taking statins.
in the past 2 1/2 years, the va has investigated 20 complaints of  security breaches.
the estimated per share price includes the net proceeds from the  march 30, 2007 sale of the company's carescience division.
the guidelines also recommend that: first-line treatment for overweight and obese adults should consist of diet changes and regular exercise, supported by behavior change; if unsuccessful, treatment with medications or bariatric surgery should be considered; starting at 10 years of age, overweight or obese canadians should undergo screening that would include tests measuring levels of fasting glucose, hdl (the good) and ldl (the bad) cholesterol, and triglycerides (a form of fat in the blood) levels.
the centers for medicare & medicaid services (cms) announced its proposed revisions to the clinical trial policy national coverage determination (ncd).
in addition, the  hospital has reduced the number of days that patients spend in the critical  care unit and estimates it has avoided $520,000 in costs.
this determination has now been made in two consecutive years, triggering a “medicare funding warning.”
although  the level of antibodies seen in the remaining individuals did not reach that  level, current scientific information on other influenza vaccines suggests that  less than optimal antibody levels may still have the potential to help reduce  disease severity and influenza-related hospitalizations and deaths.
the goal was to cut bloodstream infections by  50%, to 1.5 infections per 1,000 catheter days.
when investigators at the victorian infectious diseases reference laboratory in melbourne applied all the standard tests, however, they could not identify any known pathogen.
the findings,  published in the april issue of pediatrics are the first to document the  long-term effects of the vaccine on middle ear infections.
when the co-receptor “sees” the hiv virus it signals to the main  cd4 cell receptor to allow the hiv antigen into the target t-cell.
state officials said that under the plan, they expected that all but about 65,000 of the 328,000 adults who are currently uninsured would be able to get affordable coverage.
many  hospitals have multiple paper charts for each patient, one for hospital stays,  another for clinic visits and others for specialty services such as physical  therapy.
with computer-aided detection, 31 percent more women were called in for additional tests and 20 percent more had biopsies.
lower-level centers would not provide ongoing critical care services, but would need to transfer critically ill patients to higher-level centers.
the studies showed that arcoxia caused nearly three times as many  heart attacks, strokes and deaths as naproxen, a popular pain pill sold as  aleve, but was no more effective in curing pain.
this product is manufactured from human plasma collected at u.s.  licensed plasma centers from healthy donors.
highlights of the proposed changes include: renaming the policy as the  clinical research policy; adding fda post-approval studies and coverage  with evidence development (ced) to studies that would qualify under this  policy; requiring all studies to be registered on the nih clinicaltrials.gov  website before enrollment begins; requiring studies to publish their results;  paying for investigational clinical services if they are covered by medicare  outside the trial or required under an ced through the ncd process; and  expanding the “deeming” agencies to all dhhs agencies, the veterans  administration, or the department of defense.
the weekly testing for mrsa, the  most common superbug, detected more than half of young patients who were  carrying the germ (54 percent, or one and a half times as many)  than were  detected through routine testing, which missed 35 percent of those with  mrsa.
pqri establishes a financial incentive for  physicians and other health practitioners to participate in a voluntary quality  reporting program.
bacteria on the rise may be filling the ecological void left by the decline in  the vaccine’s seven pneumococcus strains.
patient-safety incidents with the greatest increase in incident rates were post  operative sepsis (34.28 percent), post-operative respiratory failure (18.70  percent) and selected infections due to medical care (12.23 percent); and  patient-safety incidents with the highest incidence rates were decubitus ulcer,  failure to rescue and post-operative respiratory failure.
cms is  also proposing to revise the way to account for non-routine medical supplies  (nrs) in the standardized 60-day episode payment rate.
but the texas case, and others like it, have invited new scrutiny from regulators and members of congress about these hospitals’ ability to care for patients who suffer complications after their operations.
according to the complaint filed with the court, pharmafab did not comply with cgmp by not investigating manufacturing failures and not recording and justifying why it deviated from written manufacturing procedures.
their research shows that influenza epidemics are associated with a rise in deaths from heart disease and that flu can actually trigger the heart attacks that result in death.
performance data should be used for public reporting or to determine physician  payment only after data are fully adjusted for case-mix composition, including  age, severity of illness, co-morbidities, and other features of a  physician’s practice and patient population that may influence the  results.
the unapproved drugs manufactured by pharmafab include, but are not limited to: de-congestine sustained release capsules; gfn 1200/dm 60/pse 60 extended-release tablets; rhinacon a tablets; sudal 12 chewable tablets; histex pd 12 suspension; atuss hx ciii; ergotrate tablets; and hyoscyamine sulfate time-release capsules.
influenza b viruses are associated with annual  outbreaks of illness and increased death rates worldwide, according to the  article.
according to the american cancer society, ovarian cancer  is diagnosed in about 24,000 women in the united states each year, and 14,300  die annually from the disease.
nearly half of these  cases with dual diagnoses involved drug abuse, a third involved alcohol abuse,  and one in five involved both drug and alcohol abuse.
“we’re going to try to change that.”
for example, early in the season, the u.s. flu season can last from late december through march, the rapid tests are useful because many patients mistake symptoms of other illnesses for the flu, he said.
today’s letter reiterates medicare’s long-standing requirement that hospitals have appropriate policies and procedures in place to address individuals’ emergency care needs 24 hours per day, 7 days per week.
“this new decision will signal our continued  support to provide access to services for beneficiaries by facilitating  participation in the full range of qualified, scientifically sound research  projects,” said cms acting administrator leslie v. norwalk, esq.
in fact, 33% of insured women and 68% of uninsured women don’t get the healthcare they need because they can’t afford it.
patients taking arcoxia suffered worrisome increases in blood pressure.
the study also suggested that drug treatment may often be inappropriate for  people who are experiencing painful, but normal, responses to life’s  stresses.
amerinet applies the  resources necessary to resolve variances and works with the distributor to  issue the necessary credits.
“our results provide further support to the  potentially important independent role of diabetes in the pathogenesis of  alzheimer’s disease,” the authors conclude.
yet vangl1 is just one part of a large picture of neural tube defect causation, he said.
researchers believe that flu causes an acute and severe inflammation in the body, which, in some patients, can destabilize atherosclerotic plaques in coronary arteries and cause heart attacks.
the model law, the revised uniform anatomical gift act, updates 1968 legislation adopted by every state to make organ donation procedures uniform nationwide.
it also gives organ procurement organizations the power to keep potential donors on life-support while they evaluate their organs’ suitability for transplantation.
long island chapter for central service honors parseghian as “kathi o’shaughnessy tech of the year” the long island chapter for central service is honored to recognize charles parseghian as the recipient of the prestigious “kathi o’shaughnessy tech of the year award”, sponsored by healthmark industries company inc. o’shaughnessy was one of the leaders of this chapter for many years and held most all positions on the board of directors.
“at this  point we’re just speculating on avenues of research that could be  pursued.”
the  lifetime financial improvement award, which recognizes the healthcare provider  that has documented and signed off on the greatest financial savings over a  multi-year relationship with medassets, was presented to st. joseph health  system for saving $98 million.
the automatic  tracking software provides real-time tracking of patients and mobile medical  devices using wireless ultra-wideband badges worn by patients and attached to  equipment.
human rights groups have said many organs, including those  transplanted into wealthy foreigners, come from executed prisoners who may not  have given their permission.
they looked for flaws in the data itself, changes in  reproductive factors, changes in mammographic screening, changes in  environmental exposures, changes in diet, and changes in use of  hormone-replacement therapy.
if ovarian cancer is even suspected, she said, women should seek a referral to a center with a high volume of ovarian cancer surgeries, performed by a specialist.
they are more likely to report difficulty climbing stairs, getting up from a chair and doing other routine activities, as well as more chronic problems such as high cholesterol, blood pressure and diabetes.
mainegeneral health wanted to automate and consolidate key financial management functions across its three hospitals and eight business units, seeking a stable platform that would expand visibility of critical enterprise data, automate approval workflow, improve reporting functionality and enable e-commerce.
rodriguez and arias were also charged with witness tampering in alleged attempts to bribe persons to get them to lie to investigators and a grand jury.
on dec. 7 moscow hit a record 46 degrees fahrenheit.
the proposed rule includes a provision to  continue to adjust payment for reporting of quality data.
administrators of for-profit dialysis centres say that the decision on which dose and guideline to follow is under the control of the patient’s doctor.
a u.s. national institutes of health  consensus panel issued similar recommendations on comprehensive surgery for  ovarian cancer more than a decade ago.
those principles aim to address a number of  problems: the global shortage of human materials, particularly organs, for  transplantation; the growing phenomenon of ‘transplant tourism’
physician ties to drug industry stronger than ever iom report: the future of disability in america prognosis: predicting heart disease among the 20-somethings cheaper, easier virtual colonoscopy could boost detection emergency medicine to benefit from the hl7’s first registered  clinical profile medassets supply chain systems and m cubed medical join forces to  help decrease costs for physician practices amerinet announces agreements nejm:
only 14 percent of those initially enrolled in the  study were on statins.
in a commentary published by trials, an online journal of biomed central, furberg says the fda has failed to recognize current scientific evidence when it made decisions on the safety of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (nsaids) that are often used to treat the pain or inflammation from arthritis.
four states in the top 10 now were in the top 10 then.
in his address to the more than 2,700 healthcare professionals attending the medassets healthcare business summit, medassets’ chairman, president and ceo john bardis shared the company’s plans to expand its revenue cycle management suite through acquisition of xactimed and emphasized that the company’s diligent and deliberate growth is driven by the need to solve the challenges healthcare providers are facing as they work to improve the quality of care and efficiency in our nation’s healthcare system.
a study presented saturday at the society for healthcare epidemiology of america (shea) annual meeting found that patients in long-term elder care and hiv-infected outpatients appear to be high-risk groups for carriage of methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus (mrsa), a common cause for healthcare associated infections.
the weekly testing for mrsa, the most common superbug, detected more than half of young patients who were carrying the germ (54 percent, or one and a half times as many) than were detected through routine testing, which missed 35 percent of those with mrsa.
“children prone to recurrent ear infections benefit from the  vaccine,” said lead study author katherine a. poehling, an assistant  professor of pediatrics at monroe carrell jr.
to conduct a genome-wide association study, researchers use two groups of participants: a large group of people with the disease being studied and a large group of otherwise similar people without the disease.
compared to  physicians practicing in hospitals, those in group practices were three times  as likely to receive gifts and nearly four times more likely to be paid for  professional services.
if approved,  it will be the first drug available in the class called ccr5 antagonists.
according to who, potential outcomes include an agreement on ways to increase access to vaccines, including options for stockpiling vaccines.
of these, 93 percent involved a mental health condition, most commonly mood disorders, and/or substance abuse.
comments on the proposed rule will be accepted until  june 12, 2007 and a final rule, to be effective for discharges on or after  october 1, 2007, will be published later in the summer.
vendormate’s services are uniquely suited to satisfy both internal  policies and government mandates including hipaa, stark law and deficit  reduction act.
other drug companies are also working on ccr5  antagonists.
further, the solution allows the  organization to automate inter-company purchases and allocate expenses to each  business, as appropriate.
only 67 percent of the 10,432 women whose cases were reviewed  got the recommended comprehensive surgical procedures.
m cubed medical has  developed a strategy that congregates the collective economic power of  physicians across the country to bring the same improved cost and efficiencies  already seen in physician-owned ambulatory surgery centers to the supply side  of the business while maintaining a fair profit margin for manufacturers.
rowan chlebowski, md, phd, a  principal investigator/oncologist at la biomed, and the only researcher to  participate in the 2002 reports of the trial evaluating estrogen plus progestin  (which led to the decrease in menopausal hormone therapy use in 2003) and the  2006-07 studies outlining the subsequent decrease in breast cancer, states:  “while the cause of the reduction is not definitive, the sustained  decrease in new breast cancer diagnosed in the u.s. is a remarkable event.
oxidative lesions also accumulate in people who do not have huntington’s  disease, but because their huntingtin gene lacks the extra segment it is not  prone to expansion.
“with these newer  technologies, we don’t.”
egypt has the highest number of confirmed  human bird flu cases outside asia.
neither the duration of visit nor the visit’s perceived  educational value made any detectable difference in intention to prescribe, he  said.
we’ll refresh all of our contracts over the next 18 months, delivering added value to all healthtrust members.”
the senate legislation would have allowed the government to directly negotiate with drug companies to secure lower prices for medications.
a cross-match of the state’s hepatitis b registry identified the source patient: a 36-year-old woman who had had teeth extracted hours earlier on the same day in the same office by the same surgeon and assistants, and receiving the same medications as the index patient.
“these findings suggest that moderate-dose statin use reduces the  risk of influenza/pneumonia death and strongly suggest that statins reduce the  risk of copd death.”
scientists at mit’s picower  institute for learning and memory in cambridge, ma, put mice with induced brain  atrophy in an enriched environment; a “playground” where they had  the company of other mice, were given new colorful toys to play with every day,  and were able to exercise on wheels.
“it can really slow a hospital down.”
“in our view, the evidence doesn’t support a blanket recommendation for women in this age group.”
according to the who, dengue hemorrhagic fever (dhf) is characterized by fever, low platelet count, clinical evidence of leaking capillaries, and spontaneous bleeding or fragile blood vessels.
mdufma ii would provide industry with predictable and more stable fees because the amount for each type of fee for each year of the program would be prescribed in the statute.
and, the high cost of healthcare services and  premiums is forcing many women, even women with health insurance, to go without  needed care.
when the researchers measured the amount of brain damage, they found  that the rats that had received the blood pressure lowering drugs fared  significantly better.
the findings will be  published later this year in the journalpublic health.
“we were able  to show that lowering blood pressure in the 24 hours following a stroke can  reduce brain damage.”
there are  many alternative products approved to effectively treat nausea and vomiting,  and that are available in a variety of forms, including tablets, capsules,  solutions, injectables and suppositories.
it also links seamlessly with other attainia’s software products that vha members may have purchased.
jani-king, a commercial cleaning franchise company, worked with  rubbermaid, a provider of high efficiency environmental services equipment, in  order to adapt best practices, procedures and techniques for cleaning and  disinfecting in a healthcare environment.
with the coming of spring, lyudmial kirillov, the regional epidemiologist in lipetsk, is predicting a new outbreak as the little snow that fell this winter melts and hibernating, and virus-carrying, mice awaken.
this could disrupt cell membranes and signaling pathways, including calcium entry.
the winning bids will be used to  establish a single medicare payment amount for each item.
weekly swab testing and bacterial  growth cultures were done on nearly 330 patients in the hospital’s  pediatric intensive care unit for four months.
“climate  change is about more than a warming earth,” said david blockstein, senior  scientist at the national council for science and the environment, a scientific  advocacy group in washington.
these standards, required by the medicare modernization act of 2003, would help cut both medication errors and health care costs.
“however, these biological  mechanisms are uncertain, and a prematurely terminated pregnancy may not affect  breast cancer risk at all.”
the proposed rule would add five new quality measures, which would bring to 32 the number of measures hospitals would need to report in fy 2008 in order to qualify for the full market basket update in fy 2009.
there are currently more than 40 listings on the web page.
the olives are sold under the following brands: borrelli, bonta di puglia, cento, corrado's, dal raccolto, flora, roland and vantia, and have codes that start with the letter “g” and are followed by 3 or 4 digits.
“donations from deceased persons eliminate the problem of donor safety and can help reduce organ trafficking.”
for a summary of a who consultation on clinical aspects of human  infection with avian influenza see this link.
“fewer than 10  percent of young adults with high-risk behaviors have received hbv  vaccine,” they said.
the medcac proposed several recommendations, subsequently reviewed by a  federal panel led by the agency for healthcare research and quality (ahrq).
tomorrow, a house energy and commerce subcommittee will hold a hearing on  the unprecedented spate of recalls.
she defines “high volume” as  10 or more such surgeries per year.
the number of bariatric surgeries  increased from an estimated 13,000 in 1998 to more than 100,000 in 2003.
many physicians believe that elevated blood pressure following a stroke is necessary to keep oxygenated blood at the site of the blockage.
diabetes can lead to host of consequences the rate of complications from diabetes is high, says a report, the state of diabetes complications in america, being released today by the american association of clinical endocrinologists.
in addition, by accelerating the payment process, the institution can take advantage of rapid pay discounts, which were difficult to take advantage of with the organization’s legacy system.
when fully implemented  in 2010, it is projected that these savings will amount to $1 billion  annually.
but companies are by no means speaking with one voice.
while praised by transplant advocates, the model law has stirred  concern among some doctors and bioethicists.
dengue is the most important emerging disease among international travelers,  with a 30-fold increase in incidence over the past 50 years worldwide.
med1online, llc (med1online), is a re-seller of capital medical  equipment.
fda to test imported additives for melamine concerned that a wide variety of chinese vegetable protein products may be contaminated with the harmful compound melamine, the food and drug administration said yesterday that it will begin testing batches of six imported ingredients used in pet foods and livestock feed, as well as additives to human food.
by attending the meeting you will have the opportunity to hear from  provider executives from baylor healthcare system, community health network,  excela health, sentara healthcare, st. david’s, iowa health system, north  mississippi health services, northwestern memorial hospital and universal  health services inc.
‘live’ web cast opportunity to see computer-assisted knee replacement surgery on wednesday, april 18 at 4:00 pm edt (20:00 utc/gmt) web viewers will have a unique opportunity to witness a “live” total knee replacement surgical procedure that employs a state-of-the-art computer-assisted surgery (cas) system from orthosoft inc. orthosoft is an international company that develops and markets software applications, instruments and computerized medical systems that help improve the accuracy of knee, hip and spine procedures.
family practitioners  reported the highest average number of meetings with industry representatives  (16 meetings a month), followed by internists and cardiologists (9-10 per  month, respectively).
the centers for medicare & medicaid services (cms) announced its  proposed revisions to the clinical trial policy national coverage determination  (ncd).
that happened recently in texas, where a  44-year-old man named steve spivey developed breathing problems after spine  surgery.
this exception would  apply to certain specified items furnished by physicians, physician assistants,  clinical nurse specialists, nurse practitioners, occupational therapists in  private practice, and physical therapists in private practice.
at the same time, he says the agency has failed to recognize the harm of a pain reliever that should be taken off the market.
“by  identifying this genetic link, it should be possible to improve our  understanding of why some people are more obese, with all the associated  implications such as increased risk of diabetes and heart disease.
it also emphasizes osha’s requirement to use  appropriate, available and effective safer medical devices.
their diagnostic accuracy rate was 82 to 85 percent using the eegs (e.g., it matched evaluations conducted at penn 82 to 85 percent of the time).
bird flu kills indonesian teen, toll at 73 an indonesian teenager died of bird flu in the bustling capital of jakarta,  bringing the toll in the country hardest hit by the virus to 73, a health  ministry official and doctor said friday.
updates december 2008 november 2008 october 2008 september 2008 august 2008
epca-2 is a protein that is part of the “nuclear matrix,” the  scaffolding inside a cell’s nucleus that helps it copy its genes.
they also said that it reinforced the value of universal childhood hbv vaccination, which has been recommended in the u.s. since 1991.
more  specifically, the report finds that 38% of women are struggling with medical  bills compared with 29% of men.
the four genes are:  ereg, mmp1, mmp2 and cox2.
in addition, annual report filing fees would be collected for  pre-market approvals.
another expert said the study confirms  the importance of seeing a gynecologic oncologist, as the acog opinion  recommends.
healthmark industries company provides solutions for the sterile processing profession including products designed to address the needs and challenges related to the sterilization, decontamination, storage and distribution of medical equipment and supplies.
only 1 week left to take advantage of special aami membership offering until april 30, hospitals that join aami will receive a complimentary registration to attend aami’s annual conference & expo in boston, ma from june 16-18 (a $750 value.)
this rule proposes ways to improve the  comprehensiveness of the case-mix model and thus improve the accuracy of  medicare’s payments.
the study showed that 45 percent of individuals who received a 90 microgram, two-dose regimen developed antibodies at a level that is expected to reduce the risk of getting influenza.
“as policymakers and advocates explore how to expand and improve health coverage, they should ensure that any proposal provides comprehensive benefits and low cost-sharing.”
through this  genome-wide study, the researchers identified a strong association between an  increase in bmi and a variation, or “allele”, of the gene fto.
dr. william langston, an obstetrician at the mississippi department of health,  said that officials could not yet explain the sudden increase and were  investigating.
for others, incidences of infection which had declined appear to be returning to earlier levels.
get the fast flu test fast flu tests, which drastically cut the time to diagnose a patient  with influenza or not, are helping doctors better treat the illness, according  to a recent study and medical experts.
it could become commercially available in 2008.
a fee would be assessed on facilities that register with fda as a medical device manufacturer.
infants account for more than 90 percent of pertussis deaths in the u.s.
join ches and industry participants in an engaging webinar series about how a pdu can benefit hospitals and suppliers, as well as the industry as a whole, and learn how to participate in efforts to accelerate adoption of a pdu for health care.
fda is currently implementing an ambitious action plan drawn up last year  by a post-market device transformation leadership team, a group of experts  drawn from both inside and outside of fda.
the current research simply does not support the routine practice of prescribing antibiotics following incision and drainage of simple abscesses.”
to view the notice click here.
however, only about 60% of people in the us who ought to have a flu shot actually have one and this percentage is even smaller in europe, said professor mohammad madjid, the lead author of the report.
delayed results can lead to mrsa transmission since potential mrsa carriers are often not isolated from patients without mrsa until these results are available.
at three of the four hospitals, the rate of adverse events did not appear to increase at times of peak workload.
“the plan calls for continued organizational growth, investment into program development and differentiating amerinet in the marketplace.
there is a genetic risk involved, and family members often share the same lifestyle risks, such as drinking, smoking or eating unhealthy foods.
for the past two years leesar has been trying to receive a license from the state of florida department of public health to operate a pharmaceutical repackaging facility.
“after looking at how all these  patients fared, we concluded that, comparatively, total shoulder surgery is  just as safe and effective as other types of arthroplasties,” said  mcfarland.
but a few months later, lilly provided data to the f.d.a. that  showed almost no difference in blood sugar between patients who took zyprexa  and those who did not.
once that risk is known, women can  take steps to improve their health, mieres said.
the rats were then given one of two common blood pressure lowering drugs or, for the control group, a saline solution.
electronic medical records eliminate those headaches.
business  groups wanted to make sure that premiums for state-sponsored insurance would  not be too much less than the employee contributions to an employer’s  plan because they fear that people would flock to the government-sponsored  plans, driving up the cost to the state.
this product is manufactured from human plasma collected at u.s. licensed plasma centers from healthy donors.
the robert wood johnson foundation plans to spend more than $500 million over the next five years to reverse the increase in childhood obesity.
a total of 16,118  participants (15 percent) reported having a history of induced abortion and  21,753 (21 percent) had a history of spontaneous abortion.
the new study, she added, has more complete numbers than previous research.
the revised model law is the latest in a series of initiatives by transplant advocates to boost the number of organs available for the more than 95,000 americans on waiting lists.
for others, incidences of infection which had declined  appear to be returning to earlier levels.
when the genomes of the finnish participants were scanned for all 10 diabetes-associated genetic variants, researchers could identify individuals whose genetic profiles placed them at increased risk for type 2 diabetes, including one subset of people who faced a risk four times higher than those at the lowest genetic risk.
in egypt, the ministry of health and population announced two new human h5n1 cases that were confirmed by the egyptian central public health laboratory and u.s. naval medical research unit no.3 in cairo.
the rule proposes to increase payment for lupa episodes that occur as the only episode or the first episode during a series of home health episodes to account for the initial greater costs in such episodes.
the finding, based on a study using rats and published in the april issue of thejournal of hypertension, may ultimately revolutionize emergency stroke care by putting blood pressure-lowering medications alongside clot-busting drugs and blood thinners as front-line medications.
a shoulder replacement's total costs, on  average, are $10, 351; whereas hip replacement surgery averages $15, 442, and  knee arthroplasty, $14, 674.
a mutation causes cells to lose their orientation, so the tissue in which it is expressed fails to develop properly, causing gaps that leave nerve tissue exposed.
the organization based its recommendations, which will be published in the april 3 issue ofannals of internal medicine, on a rigorous review of evidence showing there is variation in the benefits and harms associated with mammography among women in their 40s.
“because niacin is known to affect metabolic processes, there is a completely unfounded claim that it can rapidly clear the body of drugs such as cannabis and cocaine.
the healthgrades study of 40.56 million medicare hospitalization records over the years 2003 to 2005 found: patient-safety incidents continue to rise in american hospitals, with 1.16 million preventable patient-safety incidents occurring over the three years studied among medicare patients in the nation’s hospitals, an incidence rate of 2.86 percent; 247,662 deaths were potentially preventable over the three years, and medicare patients who had one or more patient-safety incidents had a one-in-four chance of dying; the excess cost to hospitals was $8.6 billion over three years, with some of the most common incidents proving to be the most costly; ten of the 16 patient-safety incidents tracked worsened from 2003 to 2005, by an average of almost 12 percent, while seven incidents improved, on average, by six percent.
furthermore, they should be monitored at regular intervals; patients participating in weight management programs should be provided with education and support in behavior modification techniques as an add-on to other lifestyle modifications; programs to promote healthy, active living and to prevent overweight and obesity should be implemented in schools to reduce the risk of childhood obesity; these include interventions to increase daily physical activity through physical education class-time and opportunities for active recreation; “screen time” (e.g. television watching, and video or computer games) should be limited to less than two hours per day to encourage increased activity and less food consumption, and to limit exposure to food advertising.
to the shock of mississippi officials, who in 2004 had  seen the infant mortality rate, defined as deaths by the age of 1 year per  thousand live births, fall to 9.7, the rate jumped sharply in 2005, to 11.4.
dr. william langston, an obstetrician at the mississippi department of health, said that officials could not yet explain the sudden increase and were investigating.
but the very catheters, intravenous lines and invasive medical procedures used to keep children alive are also putting them at higher risk of bacterial infection.
researchers surveyed physicians in six  specialties (anesthesiology, cardiology, family practice, general surgery,  internal medicine, and pediatrics) to measure the extent of their financial  associations with industry and the factors that predict those ties.
the most frequent admitting diagnosis for women was mood disorders, while that for men was substance abuse.
levinson also wrote that his office is reviewing whether nih  isadequately monitoring potential conflicts of interest among its thousands of  grant recipients, typically university researchers.
“we need to look at what causes this disease and how we can treat  it,” gerhard said.
geisinger has collected more than 600 liver tissue and blood samples donated from patients who have undergone bariatric weight loss surgery.
companies  hiring veterans are eligible for a tax credit of $4,800 per hired hero and are entitled to a tax deduction for donations made to the  program.
but, weiss said that while this  avenue of research is “worth pursuing, i wouldn’t get my hopes up  for a clinical application, especially since the drug appears to lose its  effectiveness over time.”
for example, early in the season, the u.s. flu season can  last from late december through march, the rapid tests are useful because many  patients mistake symptoms of other illnesses for the flu, he said.
about two-thirds of the 28 participating hospitals were able to reduce infections by an average of 57%, which barbara spreadbury, a vice president at chca, estimates saved 112 children’s lives, and nearly $1 million in potential treatment costs.
he has been a faculty member of  numerous colleges teaching in the divisions of business administration and  health sciences.
“we will test a variety of  foods and feeds because we need to know all there is to know” about the  melamine contamination.
while medicare’s rules currently say a hospital must “meet the emergency needs of patients in accordance with acceptable standards of practice,” the details are left largely to the hospital’s discretion.
even though the steps for preventing infections are fairly routine, he  adds, “it’s easier said than done, and involves massive cultural  shifts” for medical staff who are used to handling medical procedures  their own way.
this  professionally moderated session, with material managers only, will address  current strategies, results and lessons learned from each of the participants.
“you see it in the cherry-picking of patients, and with policies that instruct hospital staff to call 911 for the local community hospital if emergency care is needed,” said grassley, a ranking member of the senate committee on finance, which oversees medicare.
previous efforts to decrease the incidence of e. coli o157 in ground beef and salmonella in eggs have been successful, but contamination of other foods may be the problem now, according to dr. robert tauxe, deputy director of cdc’s division of foodborne, bacterial and mycotic diseases.
“pertussis immunization of adolescents and adults, especially those in contact with young infants would not only protect themselves form pertussis, but would also protect young infants from pertussis and could save lives.”
psa, the current test, measures a protein normally produced by the prostate, while the experimental one, called epca-2, detects a chemical made principally in cancerous tissue.
they are evidence- and consensus-based measures that reflect the work of national organizations involved in quality measure development, consensus endorsement, and adoption.
additionally, some centers will monitor for international and domestic cases of animal and human influenza to rapidly detect and characterize viruses that may have pandemic potential and to create vaccine candidates targeted to those viruses.
in a paper in the may issue of emerging infectious diseases, an  international team of researchers report the first ever large-scale sequencing  of western genomes of the deadly avian influenza virus, h5n1.
officials are trying to determine whether the chemical’s presence in the hogs represents a threat to humans.
supplyline is a core component in cardinal health’s rapidly growing supply technologies business that enables healthcare providers and companies to evaluate more than 800,000 healthcare products and research alternatives from thousands of manufacturers.
stockholders are therefore  expected to receive $3.15 per share, subject to certain post-closing  adjustments.
whether a facility wants to upgrade one alarm unit for a single bed or 300 new alarm units for an entire facility, the rf technologies trade-in program can be tailored to meet specific needs.
the  researchers then tested a further 37,000 samples for this gene from bristol,  dundee and exeter as well as a number of other regions in the uk and finland.
for more information see www.pandemicflu.gov.
after three hours, the suture was removed to simulate the effect of thrombolytic, or clot-busting, drugs.
charlie brown di rutigliano  & figli s.r.l, initiated a recall of these olives on march 27, 2007.
much  previous research has found that women who are treated by specialists, in this  case gynecologic oncologists, have better survival, and that those who have  complete removal of the tumor (which is more often done by a specialist) have  better survival.
patients must receive injections at the time of their liver transplant and throughout their lives.
research shows masimo acoustic respiratory monitoring technology  provides “significantly more reliable monitoring of respiration  rate” masimo reported that three new independent studies, including one  presented the recent international anesthesiology research society (iars)  clinical & scientific congress in orlando, concluded that masimo acoustic  respiratory monitoring technology (arm) is “at least as accurate as  capnometry” and “significantly more reliable” for monitoring  respiration in spontaneously breathing patients.
products are  organized by category and include color images, information about product  features and benefits.
osha, niosh publish bulletin to help protect surgical personnel from  needle stick injuries the u.s. department of labor’s  occupational safety and health administration (osha) and the national institute  for occupational safety and health (niosh) in the u.s. centers for disease  control and prevention have jointly published a safety and health information  bulletin (shib) designed to help protect surgical personnel from needle stick  injuries while using suture needles.
“thanks to vic’s vision and perseverance,  amerinet developed a restructuring plan that solidly positions the organization  for future success and growth.”
symptoms include fever, rash, headache, pain behind the eyes, and muscle  and joint pain.
for more information call peggy brody of ches at 734-677-3300 or email peggy@chestandards.org or click here.
for further information you can contact; bob simpson,  president of leesar @ 239-303-3402.
“we need to find patients who have these bacteria on them and who, as  such, are not only at risk of personal infection, but also pose a serious  threat of infection to other patients and hospital staff,” she said.
no-react treated; shelhigh no-react dura  shield; shelhigh bioring (annuloplasty ring); shelhigh no-react encuff patch;  shelhigh no-react stentless valve conduit; shelhigh internal mammary artery;  shelhigh gold perforated patches; shelhigh pre curved aortic patch (open);  shelhigh nr2000
but some members of congress are now pushing medicare to take a closer look at how such hospitals are regulated.
shoulder arthroplasty is also less  expensive, according to mcfarland.
amerinet signs exclusive agreement with ohio valley hospital consortium amerinet inc., a national health care purchasing organization, recently  renewed its agreement to serve as the sole-source purchasing agent of the ohio  valley hospital consortium (ovhc), an alliance of regional health care  providers in south east ohio, following a competitive bidding process.
no information on clinical data is available because the studies may be ongoing and include personal and confidential information.
the new study, however, found that extended periods of depression-like symptoms are common in people who have been through other life stresses such as a divorce or a natural disaster and that they do not necessarily constitute illness.
guidelines for identifying it, according to a new study published in the april  15 issue ofthe journal of infectious diseases, now available online.
“with these new data on ovarian cancer, we expect the use of hrt to fall further.
researchers recruited 5,115 people from 18 to 30 in 1985 and 1986 and followed them with physical examinations 2, 5, 7, 10 and 15 years later.
“because niacin is known to affect metabolic processes, there is a  completely unfounded claim that it can rapidly clear the body of drugs such as  cannabis and cocaine.
the new cdc analysis shows an increase in the past five years in the overall proportion of gonorrhea cases that are fluoroquinolone-resistant, from less than 1 percent in 2001 to 13.3 percent in the first half of 2006.
additionally, hire heroes will work with potential employers by contacting interested healthcare companies to identify suitable positions for the veterans.
in general, employers “are more interested in reform today than at any time since the clinton effort” in the early 1990s, said robert s. galvin, global healthcare and policy director at general electric, which provides health benefits for 460,000 employees and dependents and 240,000 retirees and dependents.
for example, scientists in the us about 25 years ago managed to use a coffee bean glycosidase enzyme to strip the b antigen from red blood cells.
catheters are a big focus of such efforts because they require an invasive procedure that could allow bacteria to enter the body.
review of the clinical and viral genetic information available on these seven patients indicated that four were likely infected in a community setting, while the remaining three were probably infected through contact with siblings shedding the mutant viruses.
it can be present even in the absence of visible blood.
ships are a key part of  medicare’s education and outreach efforts to educate beneficiaries about  health insurance coverage, including medigap, medicare advantage options,  medicare prescription drug coverage, and long-term care financing.
according to the national cancer institute, the systems are now being used in about 30 percent of mammography centers.
“the risk of mild cognitive impairment attributable to diabetes was 8.8 percent for the whole sample, 8.4 percent for african-american persons, 11 percent for hispanic persons and 4.6 percent for non-hispanic white persons, reflecting the differences in diabetes prevalence by ethnic group,” the authors write.
learn what one health care supplier, bd, is doing to lead efforts for the industry to adopt a pdu and how other suppliers can participate.
the redesigned site has an  improved layout, a more powerful search engine, and other features to help  people locate needed health and science information more efficiently.
the report also found that, with some adjustments,  e-prescribing can work successfully in long-term care settings.
according to nationwide 2003 medicare figures, 6,700 people had shoulder joints  replaced that year, compared to 106,887 hip replacements and 199,195 total knee  replacements.
however, in  the midst of the flu season when a specific community might be overrun by the  illness, the tests might be impractical or a waste of money.
this exception would apply to certain specified items furnished by physicians, physician assistants, clinical nurse specialists, nurse practitioners, occupational therapists in private practice, and physical therapists in private practice.
virtual colonoscopy involves a combination of  sophisticated x-rays and ct scans of the abdomen after it has been pumped with  air.
fagan and her team induced strokes in rats by occluding a major artery in the brain.
fda officials said that they are in discussions with chinese  officials about inspecting the plants where the contaminated pet food  originated, but that no agreement has been reached.
it calls  for limits on junk food marketing in schools, encouraging more nutrition  information in restaurants, stronger physical education requirements in  schools, and more investment in parks, bike lanes, and sidewalks.
the other nsaids are known as “non-selective.”
roughly 8 percent of the patients were uninsured.
he and his team have been looking at cell regulation and how it helps cancer cells to spread to specific tissues.
first it is a partial  ingredient in the pet food; second, it is only part of the total feed given to  the hogs; third, it is not known to accumulate in the hogs and the hogs excrete  melamine in their urine; fourth, even if present in pork, pork is only a small  part of the average american diet.
the provider receives a daily e-mail report outlining  discrepancies between wholesaler and contract prices.
systems conforming to the ec fp will facilitate vital care to the over 110  million patients seen each year in us emergency departments.
the emergence of drug-resistant influenza b should draw attention to the importance of continual monitoring of strains over time and to the need for frequent rethinking of policies for use of antiviral drugs.
electronic records appear to be money-saving devices, at least in some hands.
it is a very small number, but this is the first time that it  has been pinned down.”
“any hospital participating in medicare, regardless of the type of hospital and apart from whether the hospital has an emergency department must have the capability to provide basic emergency care interventions.” said leslie v. norwalk, esq., acting administrator of the centers for medicare & medicaid services.
the tainted additive caused a recall of more than 100 different brands of pet food.
amerinet announces agreement with skytron for medical supplies amerinet announces its agreement with skytron, division of the kmw group for medical supplies.
“this study  helps quantify the impression that many clinicians have and confirms that  systems perform poorly when they are overloaded,” said study co-author  david bates, md, msc, of the bwh division of general medicine and primary care.
the avega best practice leader award was presented to three  customers: legacy health system, vanguard health system and mercy hospital in  iowa.
“this is a very important finding that associates defects in this gene with neural tube defects in these specific families,” said marcy c. speer, director of the duke university center for human genetics in durham, nc.
this is where the reports generated by  budget builder come into play,” said rush.
hdacs help genes that have been too tightly packed in the nucleus of  cells to express themselves and make proteins.
an advisory panel of the u.s. food and drug administration (fda) is  meeting this week to decide whether to recommend approval of pfizer’s  hiv/aids drug maraviroc for patients already taking other drugs.
the use of  this new definition, in conjunction with policies established in the final  regulation, will enhance the ability of small suppliers to participate in the  competitive bidding program.
the standard, entitled,  “positive identification for patient safety; part 1: medication  delivery” defines the processes and technologies involved with safe  medication administration and management.
the transaction was approved by the boards of directors of both quovadx and  premier.
yet vangl1 is just one part of a  large picture of neural tube defect causation, he said.
michael rush, director of materials resource management for carolinas, said the health system wanted to improve the capital budgeting process and fix the current flawed process.
(the new york  times) to read the full article see this link.
but “the report shows we are failing in the primary mission of preventing complications,” he said.
since 1999, the department of veterans affairs’ 155 hospitals, 881 clinics, 135 nursing homes and 45 rehabilitation centers have been linked by a universal medical records network.
hdacs have been increasingly  used by researchers in other fields, for instance in clinical trials with  huntington’s disease patients.
fda is accepting public comments on the proposal for the next 30 days and is holding a public meeting on april 30.
participants also cited the  need to acknowledge that some critical care services should be provided by  physicians, such as hospitalists and emergency physicians, who currently are  not certified by the existing critical care boards.
he and his team have been looking at cell regulation and how it  helps cancer cells to spread to specific tissues.
facilities interested in the trade-in program should call dan mueller, sensatec representative, at toll free 1-800-669-9946 ext.
and the modest doses found in pet food would be diluted even further in the body of a pig that ate it.
partnering with the company 454 life sciences, the columbia  university team applied a high-throughput technology that can sequence hundreds  of thousands of bits of dna simultaneously.
they may also have  higher expectations, making them more likely to notice and complain about aches  and pains that earlier generations would have accepted as just part of getting  older.
scientists from the peninsula medical school,  exeter, and the university of oxford first identified a genetic link to obesity  through a genome-wide study of 2,000 people with type 2 diabetes and 3,000  controls.
criteria for depression are too broad, researchers say up  to 25 percent of people in whom psychiatrists would currently diagnose  depression may only be reacting normally to stressful events such as a divorce  or losing a job, according to a new analysis that reexamined how the standard  diagnostic criteria are used.
if in doubt, consumers should contact the  retailer and inquire whether its olives are part of the recall.
these hospitals have been  assailed for cherry-picking the most profitable procedures from the  nation’s 4,500 or so full-service hospitals.
the diagnostic tests also could be a  benefit for the public health sector because they make it easier to keep track  of test results.
the study  found striking differences in the nature of physician-industry relationships  depending on the primary practice location of the physician.
it estimates the cost of treating complications at $22.9  billion in 2006, said university of chicago health economist willard manning,  who contributed to the analysis.
vancomycin (vancocin) is currently the only fda-approved  drug for mrsa in children, and only one drug, linezolid (zyvox), is approved in  pediatrics for vre.
among the 6 large chain facilities with a similar patient case-mix, the average dose of epoetin ranged from 17,832 units per week at chain 5 (nonprofit facilities with a mean hematocrit level of 34.6 percent) to 24,986 units per week at chain 2 (for-profit facilities with a mean hematocrit level of 36.5 percent).
the reason: pcv7 prevents only a fraction of the infections that cause it.
“we need to encourage more folks to get screened, period,” he said.
the proposed rule would require physician-owned hospitals to disclose such  ownership to patients and provide the names of the physician owners upon  request.
to see if the oxidative lesions played a  role in expansion of the extra dna segment, the researchers next deleted ogg1,  a key enzyme in oxidative lesion repair.
congressional critics and consumer advocates said both episodes show that the agency is incapable of adequately protecting the safety of the food supply.
only 5 percent of the country’s 6,000 hospitals have computerized ordering of drugs and tests, and even fewer have a fully integrated system like the va’s.
“ray is an excellent addition to our  sales and marketing team.
business executives are motivated in large part by health insurance premiums that are rising much faster than inflation, adding to their costs at a time when many are facing more intense competition from abroad, where companies rely on government-supported healthcare systems largely financed by taxes.
“if it’s a single hospital or two hospitals, it could certainly paralyze the hospital,” he said.
while it is well-established that mammography reduces  mortality from breast cancer in 50- to 70-year-old women, and that women in  this age-group should be routinely screened, the evidence isn’t as  clear-cut for younger women.
as the whole population  becomes heavier, the extreme category, the severely obese, increases the  fastest.
for more information, seethis link or this link.
these injuries potentially expose  staff and patients to bloodborne pathogens.
pqri establishes a financial incentive for physicians and other health practitioners to participate in a voluntary quality reporting program.
as far as medical practice is concerned, “for therapy, we are not sure that it will have a great impact at this time,” gros said.
this year marked the initial presentation of the lifetime financial improvement award as well as awards recognizing high-performing customers of medassets’ subsidiaries avega health systems, medassets net revenue systems and medassets analytical systems.
and why, when hundreds of tumour cells get into the bloodstream every  day, do only a small number of them take up residence in a new site and start  multiplying?
at the same time, he says the agency has failed to recognize the harm of a pain  reliever that should be taken off the market.
“all of this means more and more people  will demand already strained intensive care services.
the study,  conducted by ole wichmann, md, mctm, dtm&h, at the robert koch institute in  berlin, germany, and colleagues throughout europe, collected data through the  european network on surveillance of imported diseases at 14 sites in 8 european  countries.
“the authors  don’t really discuss this, but it’s an interesting finding;  it’s not what we’d expect.”
neither abortion nor miscarriage associated with breast cancer risk neither induced abortion nor spontaneous abortion (miscarriage) appears to  be associated with breast cancer risk in premenopausal women, according to a  report in the april 23 issue ofarchives of internal medicine.
though infections caused by these bacteria are rarely fatal, carriers of either bug are at greater risk for more dangerous infections.
the ghx contract commitment module addresses these issues by automating what has traditionally been a highly manual process and by enabling manufacturers, distributors, gpos, and healthcare providers to agree on key contract terms and conditions up front.
all had normal epca-2 readings (below 30 ng per ml.).
this would make the necessary critical care services readily available to the patients who are most in need.
in may 2005, vha inc., a national health care alliance, launched a  national effort to help its members implement rapid response teams, hospital  teams that can be called upon to help when it looks like patients in  medical-surgical units are slowly spiraling toward a crisis such as cardiac  arrest or shock, with the purpose of preventing that event.
the proposal would  streamline the third party inspection program, which allows for the use of  accredited private sector auditors for routine inspections, by making it easier  for manufacturers to participate in the program.
almost  half received treatment from a surgeon who performed fewer than 10 such  procedures a year, not the best scenario for a good outcome.
their research shows that influenza epidemics are associated with a rise in  deaths from heart disease and that flu can actually trigger the heart attacks  that result in death.
the consent decree requires the defendants to destroy certain  illegal drugs, and bars them from distributing all drugs until they obtain  required fda approval and fully comply with cgmp.
however, they caution that these secondary analyses are based on small numbers of women.
companies manufacturing or marketing trimethobenzamide hydrochloride suppository products must cease shipping them in interstate commerce by may 9, 2007.
those principles aim to address a number of problems: the global shortage of human materials, particularly organs, for transplantation; the growing phenomenon of ‘transplant tourism’ partly caused by that shortage; quality, safety and efficacy issues related to transplantation procedures; traceability and accountability of human materials crossing borders.
about 40% of the recent decline in cancer deaths among men is due to  declines in their smoking rates over the past 50 years, the report says.
“electronic access will give the public an opportunity to see progress being made on a company’s post-market commitments,” said daniel schultz, m.d., director of fda’s center for devices and radiological health.
the global solution to dengue outbreaks is mosquito control, and faltering eradication efforts, together with climate change, probably share blame for dengue’s rise in the americas, kuri said.
for every $1 spent on tobacco control in the us in  2003, the tobacco industry spent $23 promoting products.
the university scientists worked with us industry scientists from zymequest in beverly, ma.
hospitals to utilize diagnostix’s industry-driven pharmacy  technology diagnostix, a subsidiary of amerinet inc., announced that 10 healthcare  providers, representing a unique range of healthcare services from across the  county, have chosen accuprice, to monitor and resolve pricing discrepancies in  their pharmacy programs.
in most cases, said william w. vodra, senior counsel at the law firm of arnold & porter and a former f.d.a. associate chief counsel, it does not perform detailed audits of clinical trials or independently check the integrity of the data that companies send to it.
the pilot project demonstrated that three initial standards are already  capable of supporting e-prescribing transactions in medicare part d. these  are standard transactions that provide physicians with patients’  formulary and benefit information, medication history, and the fill status of  their medications.
(washington post) total shoulder replacements as safe as swapping out hips and knees contrary to widespread belief, total surgical replacement of  arthritic shoulder joints carries no greater risk of complications than  replacement of other major joints, a johns hopkins study suggests.
but, dr. fenton said, they may want to ask if their mammography center uses computer-aided detection.
the software organizes and enhances communications between caregivers regarding the status of patients, rooms, and the availability of clinical staff.
members of the baby boom generation, people born between 1946 and 1964, face an especially uncertain future as they grow older, as their risk of disability increases, and as programs such as social security and medicare face serious funding challenges.
these process improvements help ensure greater accuracy in both transactions and reporting related to contract purchases, whether they are through a gpo or direct with a manufacturer.
instead, the group  suggests other screening methods, including blood stool tests; a barium enema  combined with x-rays; a flexible sigmoidoscopy and traditional optical  colonoscopy.
an analysis of a large number of trials comparing cox-2 inhibitors  to other nsaids found similar results, that voltaren was estimated to increase  vascular risk by about 70 percent over aleve.
this is the first analysis of trial data to show an increased risk  for ibuprofen, say the authors.
“it is clearly a  multigene situation, where alterations in more than one gene are responsible  for the effect,” gros said.
but this winter has been anything  but cold.
scientifically, the discovery is fascinating, because the gene is found throughout the animal world, conserved all the way from flies to humans,” he said.
the  fda has said its inspectors probably would not have found the contaminated food  before problems arose.
ray taurasi joins healthmark industries healthmark industries company, inc. (st. clair shores, mi) is pleased to announce the appointment of ray taurasi as the new director clinical sales & services - eastern region.
effectivemay 1, 2007, through april 30, 2010, this agreement  provides cost-saving opportunities to amerinet members on infant hygiene  products that include baby wash, powders, lotions, oils and shampoos.
to compare some of these options, pickhardt and his colleagues developed a mathematical model involving 100,000 patients with an average risk for colorectal cancer.
however, with a rapid test, where results are in-house and the process is shorter, the reporting is more accurate.
the use of this new definition, in conjunction with policies established in the final regulation, will enhance the ability of small suppliers to participate in the competitive bidding program.
historically, industry information describing  the contents of a specific medical product has been inconsistent or  non-existent, posing possible safety concerns.
“this is the first time anyone’s looked at all of the h5n1 genomes in the west,” said steven salzberg, the study’s lead author and director of the university of maryland center for bioinformatics and computational biology.
an especially tricky one is how to handle unconscious patients who signed donor cards but also specified that they did not want to kept alive on life-support.
and when virtual screenings focused solely on  lesions 6 millimeters and up nearly 12,900 additional unwarranted polyp  removals were avoided.
to help them succeed, cms will continue to provide training for ship  counselors and full access to computer programs and other support tools, such  as the plan finder tool and tip sheets, developed by cms to help ships with  outreach and other functions.
all told, the genomes of 32,554 people were tested for the study, making it one of the largest genome-wide association efforts conducted to date.
to receive sensatec control units at no charge, facilities simply send their current alarms to rf technologies.
hospitals and other healthcare providers can then utilize  the tool to activate contracts, with manufacturer approval and agreement on  effective dates occurring in a collaborative online environment.
a critical  element of this process is the movement we have underway for medicare to change  from being a passive payer of services to becoming an active purchaser of  high-quality, efficient care.
but from the beginning, there was concern that available health plans might be too expensive for some people, or, that some affordable plans might provide skimpy coverage.
dr. siobhan quenby from the university of  liverpool’s obstetrics department commented: “in the meantime it is  vital pre-pregnancy advice and counseling is available to women about the  implications of weight on childbirth.
hire heroes’ goal is to place more than  8,000 heroes in jobs within the healthcare industry in the first three years of  operation.
the standard, entitled, “positive identification for patient safety; part 1: medication delivery” defines the processes and technologies involved with safe medication administration and management.
during an average of 6.1 years of follow-up, 334  individuals developed mild cognitive impairment, including 160 amnestic cases  and 174 non-amnestic cases.
current methods of respiration monitoring,  including impedance pneumography with ecg and end-tidal co2 with capnometry,  each have limitations that make them unreliable in certain clinical situations.
she defines “high volume” as 10 or more such surgeries per year.
hbv infection has long been a concern in dental infection control.
such detection systems, approved by the food and drug administration in 1998, are sold by several companies, including hologic of bedford, ma; icad of nashua, nh; and kodak.
april 18, 2007 fda seizes all medical products from nj device manufacturer for  significant manufacturing violations fda approves first u.s. vaccine for humans against the avian  influenza virus h5n1 uga study suggests that lowering blood pressure following stroke may reduce damage new research shows that flu is a trigger of heart attacks for-profit dialysis centres may be over-treating anemia long island chapter for central service honors
“the guidance we are issuing today is part of an overall strategy to ensure quality care by assuring the rapid response to emergencies for all people with medicare.”
four medassets analytical systems customers received utilization excellence awards: erlanger health system, medcath, wellmont health system and atlantic health system.
based on this, it recommended that clinicians: periodically perform individualized assessment of risk for breast cancer to help guide decisions about screening mammography; inform women ages 40 to 49 of the potential benefits and harms of screening mammography; base screening mammography decisions on benefits and harms of screening as well as a woman's preferences and breast cancer risk profile.
for fact sheets on the proposed rule see this link or this link
“genome-wide association studies offer a powerful way to uncover the  genetic variations that contribute to diabetes, as well as other common  conditions, such as asthma, arthritis, heart disease, cancer and mental  illnesses,” said lead study author, michael boehnke, ph.d., of the  university of michigan's school of public health, ann arbor.
we hope that the number of women dying of ovarian cancer will decline as well.”
when the researchers measured the amount of brain damage, they found that the rats that had received the blood pressure lowering drugs fared significantly better.
the acs doesnot deem a digital rectal exam to be a sufficient means of screening.
“we (showed) that  a 13-week treatment with anakinra improves glucose regulation and insulin  production in people with type 2 diabetes,” said one of the study’s  authors, dr. marc donath, an attending physician and a professor of  endocrinology and diabetes at university hospital zurich in switzerland.
hhas that submit  the required quality data would receive payments based on the proposed full  home health market basket update of 2.9 percent for cy 2008.
the study says,  “despite the flurry of research, publications and process improvement  activity that has occurred since the iom report there is a growing consensus  that not much progress has been made leading to a visible national impact.
it’s with this spirit that the long island chapter for central  service recognizes and applauds parseghian on his career goals.
the prevalence of severe obesity continues to surge despite a rapid increase in the use of bariatric procedures.
the viruses  are transmitted to humans when infected mice set up housekeeping in the nooks  and crannies of homes, barns, sheds and other buildings.
all  specialties except anesthesiology appear to be meeting more frequently with  industry today as compared to 2000, when the average was about 4.4 meetings per  month.
(washington post) to read the original article seethis link.
but the benefit also has gained wide popularity, costing consumers and the government far less than initially projected.
apology laws vary by state.
women younger than age 35 who carry a pregnancy to term appear to have a reduced lifetime risk of breast cancer, according to background information in the article.
“genome-wide association studies offer a powerful way to uncover the genetic variations that contribute to diabetes, as well as other common conditions, such as asthma, arthritis, heart disease, cancer and mental illnesses,” said lead study author, michael boehnke, ph.d., of the university of michigan's school of public health, ann arbor.
because these drugs have not undergone fda approval,  their safety and effectiveness have not been established, and fda has not  reviewed the adequacy and accuracy of the directions and warnings in their  labeling.
the study says, “despite the flurry of research, publications and process improvement activity that has occurred since the iom report there is a growing consensus that not much progress has been made leading to a visible national impact.
there are more than a dozen others,  including drugs such as celecoxib (celebrex) that are in a special class known  as selective cox-2 inhibitors because of the hormone they target.
“with budget builder, hospitals have fast access to real cost information  that will ensure that budgets are more accurate.
“we don’t want to be too punitive, we don’t want to put too high a standard of affordability, but we don’t want to let too many people out of a universal requirement.
fda  also alerted the company to its manufacturing deficiencies and other violations  in two warning letters.
four of every 10 of these patients were between 18 and 24 years of age.
the findings  appeared in an online version of the journalclinical orthopedics.
said  leslie v. norwalk, esq., acting administrator of the centers for medicare &  medicaid services.
the  traditional culture tests are more consistently accurate and they can  distinguish between flu subtypes with more specificity.
the emergence of  drug-resistant influenza b should draw attention to the importance of continual  monitoring of strains over time and to the need for frequent rethinking of  policies for use of antiviral drugs.
to compile patient care information they reviewed patient charts and billing records on almost 25,000 patients, selecting 6,841 for comprehensive review, and analyzed that data against information on hospital workloads and staffing patterns, with a focus on variations within each hospital.
“apology is not about confession.”
they are evidence- and  consensus-based measures that reflect the work of national organizations  involved in quality measure development, consensus endorsement, and adoption.
some of those outbreaks have also been linked to climate change, higher temperatures or altered patterns of rainfall, and its effect on rodents.
family practitioners reported the highest average number of meetings with industry representatives (16 meetings a month), followed by internists and cardiologists (9-10 per month, respectively).
major manufacturer of unapproved and adulterated drugs agrees to stop  illegal practices the u.s. food and drug administration (fda)
biologists estimate that the current population of rodents in russia is 10 times as high as in previous years, and that one in three mice is infected with an hfrs-causing virus.
european  countries require clear warnings for patients at high risk of heart attacks and  have said cox-2 inhibitors should not be taken by patients with heart disease.
“women are given drugs to thin the blood and take care of symptoms, as well as reduce cholesterol levels.”
leslie a. kirwan, the  massachusetts secretary of administration and finance, who is chairwoman of the  authority’s board, said the support of advocates like mcdonough was  earned in part by action by gov. deval l. patrick, who agreed to waive fees  that more than 10,000 poor families were paying for their children to be  covered by medicaid.
taurasi has been a member  of ashcsp since 1969 and holds advanced membership status.
at this time, the agencies have no evidence of harm to humans  associated with the processed pork product, and therefore no recall of meat  products processed from these animals is being issued.
there are no precise statistics on how many of those deaths are infants and children.
“that’s an increase in the ratio of women to men of nearly  50 percent per decade,” said study author gary cutter, phd, of the  university of alabama at birmingham school of public health.
this rule proposes to  pay for nrs based on 5 severity groups, similar to the proposed clinical  case-mix model, to more accurately reflect home health agency costs for  nrs.
“it may have helped to limit spread  of the virus.”
on the other hand, the epca-2 test appears able to detect cancer even when the tumor is small.
the research team found that less calcium was able to enter the uterine cells of the obese women to support uterus muscles in contracting during labor.
“i don’t know if you can ever be prepared for this type of violence,” scott hill, chief executive officer of montgomery regional hospital, said monday night.
though the study’s accuracy rate is under that 90-percent figure, it still means the test potentially could have great value to physicians and patients and their families, and the results are particularly significant for patients who have limited access to teaching hospitals, where they may undergo six to 12 months of evaluation for a diagnosis.
sepsis is the leading cause of death in non-coronary intensive care units in the united states, according to the u.s. centers for disease control.
“even if statins are not able to significantly reduce the risk of  death from avian influenza, their use could significantly extend the time  between disease onset and death,” they wrote.
the viruses can cause a serious, and sometimes deadly, disease  known as hemorrhagic fever with renal syndrome, or hfrs.
explosive  growth in the number of processors and the amount of imported foods means that  manufacturers “have to build safety into their products rather than us  chasing after them,” brackett said.
hibcc & partners healthcare collaborate on patient safety standard the health industry business communications council (hibcc) and partners  healthcare system have announced their joint development of a data standard to  enhance providers’ patient safety systems.
dr. hall wrote an editorial accompanying the paper, which was published today inthe
based on the recommendations from the medcac and the federal panel, cms is proposing to revise its clinical trial policy.
the united states faces important decisions that could reduce, or increase, the extent to which people can live independently and be involved in their communities.
based on information currently available, fda and usda believe the  likelihood of illness after eating pork from swine fed the contaminated product  would be very low.
vha members  participating in the rapid response team network have seen dramatic results  from their adoption of the concept.
“these  groups often stated the need for more trained providers.
24  hours a day, seven days per week, and describe how the hospital will meet the  medical needs of a patient who develops an emergency condition while no doctor  is on site.
amongst white europeans, approximately one in six people carry both copies of the allele.
drug company sales visits influenced doctors, study finds neither abortion nor miscarriage associated with breast cancer risk neither induced abortion nor spontaneous abortion (miscarriage) appears to be associated with breast cancer risk in premenopausal women, according to a report in the april 23 issue ofarchives of internal medicine.
they were taking either high dose (400 mg a day) lumiracoxib, a type of drug known as a cyclo-oxygenase (cox-2) inhibitor, or ibuprofen (800 mg three times a day), or naproxen (500 mg twice daily), both of which are traditional non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (nsaids).
med1online, llc (med1online), is a re-seller of capital medical equipment.
the times disclosed the existence of the document in an article last december.
cardinal health has also expressed support for a single industry solution for contract commitment.
but it did lead to many more false  alarms that resulted in additional testing and biopsies for spots on mammograms  that turned out to be harmless.
proportion of americans who are severely obese rising faster than  those who are moderately obese
in january 2006, fda licensed hepagam b to prevent infection with hbv for the  following other purposes: after acute exposure to blood or certain body fluids  containing hbv; perinatal exposure of infants to mothers previously exposed to  hbv; sexual exposure to persons previously exposed to hbv; and household  exposure to persons with acute hbv infection.
the tests also  have helped lead to shorter hospital stays for kids and lessened the amount of  extra laboratory testing, the study said.
however, a  person carrying two copies of the allele has a 70% increased risk of being  obese, being on average 3kg heavier than a similar person with no copies.
it may also be that hospitals are more likely to provide physician education through grand rounds and cme events, rendering physicians in these facilities less dependent on industry representatives as the source of medical education and information.
republicans block medicare drug price bill wsj: pediatric icus make headway against infection difficult births in obese women due to uterus failure consorta inc. finalizes agreement to become sixth equity owner of healthtrust purchasing group consorta inc. and healthtrust purchasing group lp, two of the nation’s leading healthcare group purchasing organizations, today finalized the agreement that establishes consorta as the sixth equity owner in healthtrust.
a highly promoted and widely used computerized system for examining  mammograms is leading to less accuracy, not more, a new study finds.
medicare, assuming it would improve the outcome, pays an extra  $20 for each mammogram read with it.
budget buildersm, developed exclusively for vha members, automates the  budgeting process and helps hospitals identify cost-saving opportunities that  previously may have gone unnoticed.
during the first phase the research team plans to engage industry experts  in the identification, evaluation, and selection of target metrics for the  healthcare field.
the ohio  valley hospital consortium is an independent organization of community  healthcare providers, working collaboratively to improve the health care  delivery system in their communities.
the episode occurred  at a small hospital that is owned and run by doctors, one of roughly 140 such  hospitals around the country, with nearly two dozen more under development,  that are set up to specialize in certain types of procedures like heart  surgery, back operations and hip replacements.
premier healthcare alliance launches ‘green’ best-practices web site to help more hospitals share best practices for developing “green”, or environmentally sound, programs, the premier safety institute recently launched a new public web site, “green corner.”
because the symptoms are less obvious, women often wait too long to get treatment.
in mississippi, infant deaths among blacks rose to 17 per thousand births in 2005 from 14.2 per thousand in 2004, while those among whites rose to 6.6 per thousand from 6.1.
as part of the food and drug administration’s (fda) on-going initiative to ensure that all marketed u.s. drugs have required marketing approval, the agency announced that companies must stop manufacturing and distributing unapproved suppository drug products containing trimethobenzamide hydrochloride.
overwhelmed by huge growth in the number of food processors  and imports, however, the agency took only limited steps to address the  problems and relied on producers to police themselves, according to agency  documents.
prior to surgery, about one-third of patients carry staph aureus in the nose, but do not have an infection.
“electronic prescribing improves efficiencies while helping to eliminate potentially harmful drug interactions and other medication problems,” secretary leavitt said.
high risk patients taking aspirin and ibuprofen were around nine times as likely to have heart attacks and strokes over one year as those on lumiracoxib.
“we can’t say for  sure whether these off-label uses were brought up by the sales representatives  or the physicians,” cautions steinman, “but it’s clear there  was extensive discussion of uses that were not approved by the fda, which, in  general, sales representatives are prohibited from discussing in an unsolicited  manner.”
like most bacteria, hospital superbugs are picked up through direct  contact, by touching someone or a surface with it.
the most commonly used nsaids are ibuprofen (advil), naproxen  (aleve), and diclofenac (voltaren).
“we need to look at what causes this disease and how we can treat it,” gerhard said.
in addition, cdc is  working with the world health organization to strengthen international efforts  to monitor for the emergence of cephalosporin resistance and with government  and industry partners to identify and evaluate promising new drug regimens.
niacin is easily available as an over-the-counter vitamin supplement.
the olives are sold under the following brands: borrelli, bonta di  puglia, cento, corrado's, dal raccolto, flora, roland and vantia, and have  codes that start with the letter “g” and are followed by 3 or 4  digits.
collectively, the centers will expand niaid’s
women also should consider whether or not a relative has had heart disease.
included in the rfid resource center:  “rfid & hibc:
the discovery of a gene that influences the development of obesity in the general population provides a new tool for understanding how some people appear to gain weight more easily than others.
other results from the analyses of the combined trials include: confirmation that hormone therapy increases the risk of stroke and this risk does not appear to be influenced by age or time since menopause; even in women within 10 years of menopause, there appears to be an increased risk of breast cancer in women taking estrogen with a progestin; there was a trend (not statistically significant) towards reduced risk for death associated with hormone use in younger compared to older women.
although pertussis vaccination has reduced the number of reported cases in industrialized countries by more than 95 percent from what it was in the 1950s, the number of reported pertussis cases in the united states has tripled in the past two decades.
as president and newly named chief  operating officer, ebert would oversee “customer-facing  operations,” such as contracting, marketing and sales.
“this study indicates there may be little  reason to wait.”
“i  don’t think the rise is a fluke, and it’s a disturbing trend, not  only in mississippi but throughout the southeast,” said dr. christina  glick, a neonatologist in jackson, mi, and past president of the national  perinatal association.
ahrmm & arizona state university partner on healthcare supply chain  benchmarking initiative the association for healthcare resource & materials management (ahrmm)  has partnered with the w. p. carey school of business at arizona state  university (asu) to establish the healthcare supply chain benchmarking and  performance improvements metrics, an initiative that aims to advance and  improve healthcare supply chain performance analysis over the next two years.
her team published the findings online april 9 in the journalcancer.
too often because of social stigma or lack of understanding, individuals and health care providers don't recognize the signs or treat mental health or substance use disorders with the same urgency as other medical conditions.”
the avega best practice leader award was presented to three customers: legacy health system, vanguard health system and mercy hospital in iowa.
when researchers examined the first wave of baby boomers (5,030 adults  born between 1948 and 1953)to enter a federally funded health and retirement  study which is tracking more than 20,000 u.s. adults as they move through  middle age toward retirement, they were shocked to discover that they appeared  to report poorer health than groups born between 1936 and 1941, and between  1942 and 1947.
“aside from free drug samples, the representative will often bring a  gift, lunch for the doctor and his or her staff, new pens and coffee mugs,  offers to attend an educational conference.
the diagnostic manual used by doctors says that anyone who has at  least five such symptoms for as little as two weeks may be clinically  depressed.
“there certainly is a need  for a better test than psa.
“these  principles reflect the importance of balancing stakeholders’ urgent need  for useful information with the need for due diligence to ensure that the  information provided is valid, reliable, and useful.”
in addition, overall prescription drug costs have increased much more slowly during 2004-2006 than in prior years.
in all, household members including siblings,  aunts and uncles, cousins and grandparents were responsible for 75 percent of  pertussis cases among infants for whom a source could be identified.
samolovitch was president of warrendale, pa-based amerinet central, one of the gpo’s key shareholder companies.
(washington post) ches webinar series focuses on benefits of synchronized product  data across the health care industry
among many changes, the measure expands the list of people who can  consent to an unconscious patient becoming a donor, and makes it clear that a  person’s decision to be an organ donor cannot be revoked by anyone else.
some  of those outbreaks have also been linked to climate change, higher temperatures  or altered patterns of rainfall, and its effect on rodents.
the report also calls for greater efforts to educate the public about sun  safety, staying out of the sun during peak hours, using sunscreen and  protective clothing, and keeping to the shade.
the vaccine was generally well tolerated, with the  most common side effects reported as pain at the injection site, headache,  general ill feeling and muscle pain.
the new study, she added,  has more complete numbers than previous research.
ibuprofen may boost chance of heart problems in high risk patients with  osteoarthritis the common painkiller, ibuprofen, may boost the likelihood of heart  problems in high risk patients who have osteoarthritis, suggests research  published ahead of print in theannals of the rheumatic diseases.
however, other scientists would prefer to wait for the results of human trials before getting too excited.
in addition, cerebrovascular disease-diseases such as stroke that affect the vessels supplying blood to the brain-is related to both diabetes and alzheimer's disease.
stories are categorized under major topics, such as energy savings and waste reduction, making it easy for hospitals to find specific information on programs of interest.
fabrics produced from dupont engineered elastic nonwoven technology can be high stretch or high stretch with varying degrees of elastic recovery power, depending on end user needs.
people with the disease have a  version of a gene called huntingtin that carries an extra segment with a  particular sequence of repeated subunits.
respiration is one of the five  vital signs, but clinicians have long looked for a continuous and noninvasive  method of monitoring respiration that is both clinically accurate, easy to use,  and well tolerated by patients.
at present one american develops alzheimer’s  every 72 seconds.
“we’re seeing some very powerful  evidence all pointing to parallel findings,” said mark d. hayward, a  sociologist at the university of texas at austin.
multi-angle brackets offer professionals different angles for needle  placement.
no evidence of hbv infection was found in any member of the office  staff.
giving patients too much anti-anemia drugs can put their lives at risk.
bert zimmerli, amerinet’s chairman of the board, praised samolovitch for his leadership role in the gpo’s move to a single organization from the shareholder-based structure it operated under since its inception in 1986.
electronic records are especially helpful in managing prescription drugs.
the heaviest groups have been increasing at the fastest rates for the past 20 years.
women need to take a hard look at their risk factors, mieres and goldberg said.
the health industry business communications council (hibcc) has announced the launch of its new rfid resource center.
the study included patients from 81 dialysis clinics across 19 states.
the net  impact of all of the proposed refinements and updates in the hh pps proposed  rule is an estimated additional $140 million in payments to home health  agencies in cy 2008.
however, the  american cancer society (acs) has not yet backed this option as a proven  screening method, citing the need for further research.
however, in some patients the quiescent, stable atherosclerotic plaques undergo  sudden changes, mainly due to exaggerated inflammation, leading to rupture of  these vulnerable plaques and subsequent formation of clots resulting in heart  attacks.
hospitals that operate at or over their capacity may be at increased risk of adverse events that injure patients, according to a study led by investigators from massachusetts general hospital (mgh) and brigham and woman’s hospital (bwh).
for more information on the “go red for women” campaign, seethis link.
they said  the genes probably hijack blood vessels and make them feed the tumour instead  of healthy cells.
the report shows that  the age adjusted incidence rate of breast cancer in women in the united states  fell sharply by 6.7% in 2003, as compared with the rate in 2002.
however, 60 percent of medicaid patients are in managed-care  schemes in which physicians or clinics get a flat fee to provide all medical  services to a client.
people experiencing these symptoms should seek immediate medical  attention.
easy-to-read gauge sizes on the inserts make it simple to identify and alter gauge sizes in a darkened ultrasound suite.
but, in fact, cardiovascular disease is the number one killer of both men and women in the united states, according to the national institutes of health.
“even though we have yet to fully understand the role played by  the fto gene in obesity, our findings are a source of great excitement,”  said professor mark mccarthy from the university of oxford.
the national institutes of health (nih) has solicited proposals to study on a broader scale how to treat skin and soft tissue infections, including abscesses, and whether antibiotics are necessary.
“those taking statins had a 41 in a 1,000 chance of being hospitalized for sepsis, while the other group not taking statins had a 110 out of 1,000 risk.
april 25, 2007 fda causes unnecessary scare about common painkillers fda to test imported additives for melamine new virus discovered; 3 organ transplant recipients in australia succumb to infection medicare trustees release annual report only 1 week left to take advantage of special aami membership offering fda causes unnecessary scare about common painkillers
“the problem is that people don’t recognize diabetes early enough, so by the time of diagnosis, about half of people with diabetes already have a complication that took years to develop.”
“while it validates our unique model and  value-proposition, i'm even more excited about the potential to strengthen our  competitive position.
people, places, processes & products that influence the supply chain hpnonline daily update 2013 2011 updates december  2011 november 2011 october 2011 september 2011 august 2011 july 2011 june 2011  may 2011 april 2011 march 2011 february 2011 january 2011 more to come... 2009
while cautioning that the data are just starting to emerge, researchers say the findings track with several unhealthy trends, notably the obesity epidemic.
on the other hand, high doses of advil (800 mg  three times a day) and voltaren (75 mg twice daily) were associated with rates  of heart attack that were 51 percent and 63 percent higher, respectively, than  placebo.
this is  because the rule requires all contracting suppliers to be accredited by an  approved accreditation organization as meeting cms’ quality  standards.
the 2007 outstanding humanitarian award went to chris van gorder, chief executive officer of scripps health in san diego, ca.
(healthday news) secondary analyses of findings from the women’s health initiative (whi) suggest that women who begin hormone therapy within 10 years of menopause may have less risk of coronary heart disease (chd) due to hormone therapy than women farther from menopause.
hiv uses it as a co-receptor to get into target cells: the cd4 t-cells or helper cells, the main coordinators of the immune system.
“it is troubling to learn that infants are often infected with pertussis by their own family members, who are often unaware of having pertussis themselves, and in whom pertussis could have been prevented if they had received a pertussis booster vaccination,” she said.
as a result, phone calls and other manual interventions to  manage care progression are reduced resulting in more timely care and a quieter  patient environment.
this is estimated to become every 33 seconds by 2050 as 78 million baby boomers began turning 60 last year.
since it is the most commonly used nsaid, the unrecognized harm it has caused worldwide could be enormous.”
with the non-selective nsaids, europe has given a “clean bill of  health” to the agents and the fda has judged them to have similar risks  to celebrex and is adding “black box” warnings.
in  addition to ahrq, the federal panel included representatives from cms, fda,  cdc, hrsa and the nih.
the temporary suspension affects only the orlando dc and only dea  controlled items.
the report  is based on 2004 data, the latest currently available, from ahrq’s
seventeen were for patient records accessed by unauthorized people, and three were for release of medical data to third parties without patient consent, va spokeswoman jo schuda said.
this statement has been endorsed by the six organizations that, along with the acs, make up the council on surgical and perioperative safety.
the viruses are transmitted to humans when infected mice set up housekeeping in the nooks and crannies of homes, barns, sheds and other buildings.
thirty-one  hospitals from maryland, north carolina, south carolina, tennessee, virginia,  west virginia and washington d.c., joined the vha initiative through its  central atlantic office.
shuji hatakeyama, m.d., ph.d., of the university of tokyo, japan, and  colleagues examined the prevalence and transmissibility of influenza b viruses  with reduced sensitivity to neuraminidase inhibitors in japan, where zanamivir  and oseltamivir are now used more extensively than anywhere else in the world.
moses cone health system in greensboro, nc, was so impressed with the  results of their program that the system hired a dedicated team that is not  assigned from icu staff.
in addition, the  single-use design of the ultra-pro ii needle guide reduces the risk of  cross-contamination and increases patient throughput.
pugliese noted that such information can provide an important starting point for projects whose ultimate goal is to reduce waste, save money and protect a community's quality of life both now and for future generations.
for more information see this link  http://www.civco.com/index.
there is no limit to  the number of alarm units that may be traded.
the hopkins researchers cautioned that kidney  dialysis patients should not necessarily ask their doctors to put them on  statins until more studies are done to verify their findings.
the success of their efforts led the organization to seek formal standardization of their processes, in order that they could be easily and uniformly implemented by other providers.
the regulations, which take effect may 1, are also meant to standardize transplant procedures at the limited number of hospitals licensed to perform them.
the team from the university of liverpool’s  physiology department found that obese women were 3.5 times more likely to  require a caesarean for slow labor than normal weight women.
under the act, the donor card trumps the living will, which  triggered objections from some bioethicists and doctors who care for critically  ill patients.
women’s thoughts about mammography or their risks of developing breast cancer will likely vary greatly, the group notes, but it expects the potential reduction in breast cancer mortality associated with screening to outweigh other considerations for many women.
the computer system tells practitioners not only what a patient has been prescribed but what he has actually picked up from the pharmacy.
“children are more vulnerable to the problem of antibiotic  resistance because their bodies are not fully developed to fight off illness  and because fewer drugs are fda approved for use in children,” said aaron  milstone, m.d., a pediatric infectious diseases research fellow at hopkins who  led the tudy.
agency investigators concluded that about  half of those who were suspected of wrongdoing and who were still employed at  nih (and thus available for questioning) had indeed violated policies,  including 10 who the agency concluded may have violated federal law.
diabetes can lead to host of consequences the rate of complications from diabetes is high, says a report, the state  of diabetes complications in america, being released today by the american  association of clinical endocrinologists.
the series brings together industry experts who are championing efforts to launch a health care product data utility (pdu), similar to systems already successfully streamlining the exchange of supply chain information in other large industries.
tumours formed from cancer that has spread or metastased from the primary site  to other parts of the body cause 90 percent of cancer deaths.
of the participants, 23.9 percent had diabetes, 68.2 percent had hypertension, 33.9 percent had heart disease and 15 percent had had a stroke.
although smoking rates among both youth and adults began dropping in 1997, that decline appears to have stalled.
the study showed rapid pre-admission testing for nasal staph aureus and  subsequent colonization suppression of carriers resulted in an average annual  cost savings of approximately $519 million for u.s. hospitals.
a law in vermont exempts only oral statements of  regret or apology, not written ones.
business executives are motivated in large  part by health insurance premiums that are rising much faster than inflation,  adding to their costs at a time when many are facing more intense competition  from abroad, where companies rely on government-supported healthcare systems  largely financed by taxes.
a person earning up to $15,315, one and half times the  federal poverty level, would not have to pay anything under this proposal.
medassets is one of a number of healthcare companies providing funding to health careers foundation.
to become an institutional  member, simply submit this online form,  www.aami.org/advertising/membership/institution.html, and aami will contact  you.
the hiv virus was  suppressed in 45 percent of the patients, compared with 23 percent who took a  placebo.
by dialing a special  number, patients and family members can activate the code care team to evaluate  a patient's condition.
instead, it required  only a “vaguely worded” black box warning, said furberg.
the  report recommends that policymakers eliminate or modify the  “in-home-use” requirement in the medicare statute and regulations.
amerinet will negotiate contracts on  behalf of st. theresa medical complex, and make available an array of  competitively priced, quality products and services provided by industry  leaders.
none of her family was found to have bird flu, it added.
william brady,  an emergency medicine professor at the university of virginia, said that the  total number of gunshot wounds would swamp any hospital, especially those in  rural areas with limited resources.
however, the first variants detected may not themselves directly influence disease susceptibility, and the actual causative variant may lie nearby.
”there have been many association studies, some risk factors identified in certain genes, alterations in some genes associated with neural tube defects, but there hasn’t been any clearly causative mutation,” gros said.
participants also cited the need to acknowledge that some critical care services should be provided by physicians, such as hospitalists and emergency physicians, who currently are not certified by the existing critical care boards.
“that’s an increase in the ratio of women to men of nearly 50 percent per decade,” said study author gary cutter, phd, of the university of alabama at birmingham school of public health.
“the proportion of people at the high end of the weight scale continues to increase at a brisk rate despite increased public attention on the risks of obesity and the increased use of drastic weight loss strategies such as bariatric surgery,” said roland sturm, author of the report and an economist at rand, a nonprofit research organization.
mcfarland's team also determined that the average time a person remained hospitalized after the surgery was lowest for those recovering from shoulder procedures (just 2.42 days for shoulder patients, versus more than four days for both the hip and knee equivalents).
the report in the may issue of the journal medical care suggests that efforts to meet two primary challenges facing hospitals today, reducing costs and improving patient safety, may work against each other.
that is the hope expressed by christoph klein, who studies metastasis at the university of regensburg in germany.
the discrepancy between lilly’s initial data and what it later submitted came at a time when zyprexa’s sales were soaring, even as some doctors and foreign regulatory agencies were questioning the drug’s safety.
fda to consider approval of first ccr5 antagonist against hiv/aids
the most frequent admitting diagnosis for  women was mood disorders, while that for men was substance abuse.
“this additional  survival time could increase the effectiveness of anti-influenza drugs,  providing a longer time to reduce mortality risks.”
there were also gender differences.
july 2008 june 2008 may 2008 april 2008 march 2008 february 2008 january 2008  2006 updates december 2006 november 2006 october 2006 september 2006 august 2006 july 2006 june 2006 may 2006 april 2006 march 2006 february 2006 january 2006 april 2007 april 30, 2007 april 27, 2007 april 26,  2007 april 25, 2007 april 24, 2007 april 23, 2007 april 20, 2007 april 19, 2007  april 18, 2007 april 17, 2007 april 16, 2007 april 13, 2007 april 12, 2007  april 11, 2007 april 10, 2007 april 9, 2007 april 6, 2007 april 5, 2007 april  4, 2007 april 3, 2007 april 2, 2007 back to home page april 30, 2007 amerinet leadership changes hands as ebert takes the helm sterilmed and the scope exchange merge ray taurasi joins healthmark industries cms proposes payment changes for medicare home health services cms issues guidance on hospital emergency services requirements joint update: fda/usda update on tainted animal feed alzheimer’s memory loss may one day be reversible major manufacturer of unapproved and adulterated drugs agrees to stop  illegal practices amerinet leadership changes hands as ebert takes the helm todd ebert, president and chief operating officer of amerinet inc., saw  his leadership role within the national group purchasing organization expanded  even more following the announced resignation today of ceo victor samolovitch.
supporters hope it is adopted nationwide.
campbell and his co-authors, including institute for health policy director david blumenthal, md, report that the idea that companies target opinion leaders for marketing is further suggested by the higher frequency of industry payments to physicians who have developed clinical guidelines and who serve as mentors for doctors in training.
at least 17 other states, plus the district and the u.s.  virgin islands, are considering the legislation.
april 17, 2007 medassets to expand revenue cycle suite offering with agreement  to acquire xactimed fda announces recommendations to reauthorize medical device user  fee program geisinger launches extensive study on obesity and related liver  problem study shows hope for early diagnosis of alzheimer's ‘live’ web cast opportunity to see computer-assisted knee replacement surgery fda urgently warns consumers about health risks of potentially  contaminated olives spsmedical introduces new catalog rampage strains area hospitals blacksburg, va, april 17 -- four hospitals in this rural area of  southwestern virginia were swamped monday after the virginia tech shooting  rampage sent more than two dozen victims to emergency rooms, with the first  arriving here at a regional medical center about 7:30 a.m.
needle guidance now available for siemens’ new high-density  transducer civco medical solutions announces the release of its newest  needle guidance system for siemens, the 17l5 hd.
the study compared the effectiveness of weekly screening to current practices for ordering tests and found the weekly model to be many times more effective than standard risk monitoring, in which the highly contagious bacteria are looked for after patients develop skin rash, fever or pain.
the peaks in deaths from both ami and ihd coincided with the times when influenza epidemics and acute respiratory disease (ard), which often accompanies flu, were at their height.
the proposal represents a carefully hammered-out compromise.
some people prefer the colonoscopy route  compared to virtual colonoscopy, and that’s fine.”
this proposal changes premiums and subsidy rates that were established earlier.
“the gold standard is still a culture, but the gold standard is not timely, hence its usefulness in diagnosis and treatment is limited,” poland said.
currently, the standard method to detect carriage of mrsa is by routine culture whereby results can take several days.
(the new york times) rfid resource center launched; service provides knowledgebase for healthcare supply chain
this  e-learning platform will be utilized to provide physicians with a self-paced  curriculum and associated tools, based on adult learning principles, available  at their convenience.
cms is implementing an extensive outreach and education plan to assist eligible professionals to understand the program and the measures and to implement processes to efficiently capture the quality data that is to be reported under the pqri program.
over the last few years, the foundation has pledged $80 million to childhood  obesity programs, like grants to the food trust to persuade supermarket  operators to return to poor neighborhoods.
over time, more women are developing ms than men
parseghian as “kathi o’shaughnessy tech of the year” fda seizes all medical products from nj device manufacturer for significant manufacturing violations u.s. food and drug administration (fda) investigators and u.s. marshals today seized all implantable medical devices from shelhigh inc., union, nj, after finding significant deficiencies in the company’s manufacturing processes.
according to john w. strong, consorta’s  president and chief executive officer, during the first five years of the  partnership, consorta forecasts that the combination will provide shareholders  and members with $535 million in cost savings, via price reductions and broader  coverage afforded by healthtrust’s portfolio.
and nobody knows why different cancers spread to particular tissues, such as why breast cancer travels to lung and bone in particular.
“the cost of not looking at context is you think anyone who comes under this diagnosis has a biological disorder, so should more or less automatically get antidepressant medication, and everything else is superfluous,” said lead author jerome wakefield, a new york university researcher.
in 2009, hospitals would be paid 100 percent based on cost-based drg weights.
“prior conferences aimed at addressing this problem sought input only from critical care professionals, who are a fraction of all the stakeholders,” said dr. barnato, lead author of the report.
melamine, a nitrogen-based compound used in products such as countertops,  glues and fertilizers, was identified this month as the cause of fatal kidney  failure in an unknown number of dogs and cats, leading to the recall of more  than 100 brands of pet food.
the 15-year-old girl was admitted to the sulianti saroso hospital for infectious diseases on monday and died late thursday, said sandakan giriputro, a doctor at the facility.
the comment period closes on tuesday, june 26.the proposed rule is available at this link.
the most common such events were wound infections and adverse drug events.
“identifying patient populations that have a high risk of mrsa carriage is important in our efforts to control the spread of this microbe among patients.”
the gathering will bring together  representatives from who, countries affected by h5n1, vaccine manufacturers and  donors to discuss strategies for vaccine production and access.
(the new york times) to read the full article see this link.
“our challenge now is identifying those  patients.”
“this case is the 14th death from 34 cases of bird flu infection since the disease appeared in egypt in february 2006,” the statement said.
the researchers also presented findings on the economic impact of staph  aureus infections in hospitals and found that from 1998 to 2003 the  economic burden among all staph aureus-related inpatient stays increased  from $8.7 billion to $14.5 billion, an annual increase of 11.9 percent.
“there hasn’t been any situation like  this, where you knock out the gene and find a neural defect in the mouse and  then find the same thing in humans.”
the agency said it had not yet decided  whether to take any action against lilly.
during that  time, seven of the centers switched to computer-aided detection.
a shoulder replacement's total costs, on average, are $10, 351; whereas hip replacement surgery averages $15, 442, and knee arthroplasty, $14, 674.
for more information seethis link. april 3, 2007april 3, 2007 mammograms for women in their 40s should be based on individual ahrmm & arizona state university partner on healthcare supply chain benchmarking initiative is it the flu?
compared with young adults who had below-optimal  levels of the risk factors at the start of the study, those with above-optimal  levels were one and a half to three times as likely to have coronary artery  calcium 15 years later.
to submit electronic comments on the  proposal, visit www.regulations.gov or  www.fda.gov/dockets/ecomments.
health ministry official muhammad nadirin confirmed that the girl’s lab tests showed she had contracted the h5n1 virus, apparently after coming into contact with infected pet birds at her home in central jakarta.
fda was aware of dangers to food; outbreaks were not preventable, officials say the food and drug administration has known for years about contamination problems at a georgia peanut butter plant and on california spinach farms that led to disease outbreaks that killed three people, sickened hundreds, and forced one of the biggest product recalls in u.s. history, documents and interviews show.
roughly 8 percent of the patients were  uninsured.
administrators of  for-profit dialysis centres say that the decision on which dose and guideline  to follow is under the control of the patient’s doctor.
“in many cases, the environment makes  it almost impossible for them to choose healthy lifestyles,” dr.  lavizzo-mourey said.
the bottom  five, with lowest-ranked last, were in south dakota, oklahoma, texas, idaho and  mississippi.
the tissue-based devices are used in many surgical settings,  including open heart surgery in adults, children and infants, and to repair  soft tissue during neurosurgery and abdominal, pelvic and thoracic surgery.
too much hemoglobin is dangerous  because it increases the risk of heart attacks, strokes and blood clots.
the cost of the va’s electronic medical record, called vista (for veterans information systems and technology architecture), is hard to measure.
the success of their efforts led the organization to seek formal  standardization of their processes, in order that they could be easily and  uniformly implemented by other providers.
people with  two copies of a particular gene variant have a 70% higher risk of being obese  than those with no copies.
contact spsmedical at 1-800-722-1529 or info@spsmedical.com for a free catalog and more information.
ahrmm & arizona state university partner on healthcare supply chain benchmarking initiative the association for healthcare resource & materials management (ahrmm) has partnered with the w. p. carey school of business at arizona state university (asu) to establish the healthcare supply chain benchmarking and performance improvements metrics, an initiative that aims to advance and improve healthcare supply chain performance analysis over the next two years.
according to the centers for disease control and prevention (cdc),  the vaccine combats the seven most common strains of pneumococcal bacteria  behind otitis media (middle ear infection).
the survey also found that: pediatricians and anesthesiologists were significantly less likely than family practitioners to receive samples, reimbursements and payments for professional services.
according to  caroline smith dewaal, who heads the center for science in the public interest,  a consumer-advocacy group, “when budgets are tight... the food program at  fda gets hit the hardest.”
but the process proved to be impractical.
“ray is an excellent addition to our sales and marketing team.
in terms of both preventing cancer and minimizing cost, the use of any screening method was better than no screening at all, the study found.
“there certainly is a need for a better test than psa.
results from the study, presented april 16 at the annual meeting of the society of health care epidemiology of america (shea) in baltimore, are believed among the first to make a case for better screening in efforts to slow spread of the germs in hospitalized children.
the needle guide directs instruments according to on-screen software guidelines  and features a larger tab for improved quick-release function, allowing easy  detachment of the needle from the transducer.
one resulted in a conviction for criminal conflict of interest; the other is still pending.
“there’s no way they could police the system with the resources they have,” vodra said.
for more information  seethis link.
(cnn) medicare announces competitive acquisition program for certain dme,  prosthetics, orthotics, and supplies
the blood-borne pathogen is hardy, persisting in dried blood  on surfaces for a week or more.
“it can be shortness of breath without any chest pain.
the proposed rule would create 745 new severity-adjusted diagnosis related groups (drgs) (medicare severity drgs or ms-drgs) to replace the current 538 drgs.
smaller rises also occurred in 2005 in alabama, north carolina and  tennessee.
materials managers invited to attend healthcare supplier & provider institute meeting for free; new provider only session materials managers are invited to attend the third annual healthcare supplier & provider institute meeting, to be held april 23-24 in dallas, tx, at the gaylord texan resort and hotel.
but a new report from the american cancer society warns that this progress is threatened by disturbing trends in cancer prevention and early detection efforts.
on friday, march 30, 2007, quovadx, inc. and premier inc. simultaneously signed a definitive agreement and closed the related transaction wherein premier purchased all outstanding shares of carescience stock for $34.9 million, or a multiple of approximately 2.3 times carescience's 2006 revenue.
women physicians are less likely to receive payment than their male  counterparts.
there are more than a dozen others, including drugs such as celecoxib (celebrex) that are in a special class known as selective cox-2 inhibitors because of the hormone they target.
according to pfizer, these trial results have been accepted for presentation at  a forthcoming hiv conference.
if the segment is too large, the gene  produces a faulty protein that has a destructive effect in the brain.
more specifically, the report finds that 38% of women are struggling with medical bills compared with 29% of men.
electronic records appear to be money-saving devices, at least in some  hands.
the greatest difference in dosing practice patterns between centres was found among patients with hematocrit levels of less than 33 percent.
efforts are underway to raise the  necessary operating funds to make this program a success.
nobody knows what the long term effect of using ccr5 antagonists  will be.
to learn more about  the council’s members seethis link.
the estimated per share price includes the net proceeds from the march 30, 2007 sale of the company's carescience division.
however, pickhardt noted that the high-tech procedure is not yet widely available.
philanthropy has long fueled  improvements in health, from john d. rockefeller, whose money produced a yellow  fever vaccine, to bill and melinda gates, who are underwriting new health  technologies and vaccines to address a variety of global problems.
blood tests indicated that the source patient had had chronic hbv infection with a high viral load at the time of oral surgery.
highlights of the proposed changes include: renaming the policy as the clinical research policy; adding fda post-approval studies and coverage with evidence development (ced) to studies that would qualify under this policy; requiring all studies to be registered on the nih clinicaltrials.gov website before enrollment begins; requiring studies to publish their results;
cas, such as with orthosoft  navitrack(r) navigation systems, provides surgeons immediate instrument  alignment and implant placement feedback.
based on data from national surveys, the report is the first to combine economic and health data on type 2 diabetes complications, says the endocrinologists association, which prepared it with the amputee coalition of america, mended hearts, the national federation of the blind and the national kidney foundation.
but the texas case, and others like it, have invited new scrutiny  from regulators and members of congress about these hospitals’ ability to  care for patients who suffer complications after their operations.
nachri’s bloodstream-infection prevention effort is relying on so-called “bundles” of catheter insertion and maintenance protocols that have already been shown to save lives and costs.
the problem, goff said, is that the diagnosis is usually made at the time of surgery.
food and drug administration officials were unusually harsh in their criticism of the medicine.
the surge of interest, galvin said,  “is driven by compounding health cost increases at three times the  general inflation rate, plus the entrance of wal-mart and other  retailers” that are beginning to feel the pain of out-of-control  increases in costs.
all told, the genomes of 32,554 people were tested for the study, making it one  of the largest genome-wide association efforts conducted to date.
diabetes contributes to stroke and heart disease.
for example, although people age 80 and older comprised only 5 percent of the u.s. population in 2004, they accounted for nearly 21 percent of all hospital stays for these conditions, principally for dementia.
they are more likely  to report difficulty climbing stairs, getting up from a chair and doing other  routine activities, as well as more chronic problems such as high cholesterol,  blood pressure and diabetes.
mieres recommends taking small steps that lead to big ones, walking 10 minutes a day and increasing that to 30 minutes, or eating an apple for a snack instead of a candy bar.
located at www.premierinc.com/greencorner, the site showcases hospital and  supplier success stories about “green” initiatives that contribute  to a safer, healthier community environment.
the more stringent admission  screening methods for methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus (mrsa) and  vancomycin-resistant enterococcus (vre) go well beyond standard hospital  practices, where tests are only ordered after symptoms or early signs of  infection appear.
however, the software is now free to anyone who wants to get it  through the freedom of information act.
“we don’t envision this replacing a neurologist,” polikar said.
the offer allows facilities to trade in competitors’  systems for the latest technology in bed and chair alarms.
“every study we looked at came to the same conclusion: abscesses treated with incision and drainage alone healed at the same rate as abscesses treated with incision, drainage and antibiotics,” said dr. everett.
“the  most important thing is that women be well-informed about the decision they're  making.”
several snack food producers are making changes in their packaging and ingredients, and three soft-drink companies said they would no longer supply sweetened drinks to school cafeterias and vending machines.
materials managers invited to attend healthcare supplier &  provider institute meeting for free; new provider only session materials managers are invited to attend the third annual healthcare  supplier & provider institute meeting, to be held april 23-24 in dallas,  tx, at the gaylord texan resort and hotel.
the team members hope that eventually they or other researchers will develop a hand-held device that can be used to conduct similar evaluations as those done by the rowan/penn//drexel group.
that is about when committee  members complained loudly that too many of those who were found to have  violated nih rules had gotten off with only modest disciplinary action.
“lilly always cooperates  fully with requests for information from the f.d.a.,” he said, “and  that includes any requests regarding information on zyprexa.
in contrast, the incidence of hbv infection in  children has been dramatically reduced by universal vaccination policies, and  surgeon- and dentist-to-patient transmissions of the infection were essentially  eliminated with routine vaccination of healthcare workers.
the agriculture department, which monitors meat, poultry and eggs and keeps inspectors in every processing plant, got an increase 10 times that amount to help pay for its inspection programs.
it was developed to prevent meningitis,  invasive pneumonia and other potentially deadly diseases.
as of last year, some 10 states  had reported 30 or more cases of the syndrome since 1993, when the virus was  identified.
until those steps are fully implemented,  today’s report starkly demonstrates the need to act to change  medicare’s current growth trajectory.”
this limits  the options available to treat gonorrhea, one of the most common sexually  transmitted diseases in the u.s.
the organization selected and implemented peoplesoft applications for financial management, accounts payable, asset management, project costing, purchasing, inventory management and eprocurement.
like malaria, dengue is transmitted to humans by mosquitoes.
“despite past success with benchmarking, healthcare organizations still need a consistent, actionable, and credible measure to ensure accurate comparisons and reporting of financial and other supply chain measures,” said deborah sprindzunas, ahrmm’s executive director.
if ovarian cancer is even suspected, she said,  women should seek a referral to a center with a high volume of ovarian cancer  surgeries, performed by a specialist.
your facility can become an institutional member for as low as $540 per year, which would provide you and your colleagues with: a subscription to aami’s award-winning journal,bi&t, which includes practical articles of interest for ces, bmets, and other medical technology professionals; a subscription to the monthly newsletter,aami news, to stay on top of breaking industry news; full access to aami's new online journal, a comprehensive library of searchable and archived articles; significant discounts on all educational program registration, aami standards and other publications, which is available to all members of your facility; access to salary benchmarking information, joint commission guidance, career resources, networking opportunities, and much more.
obese women who gave birth vaginally were also found to encounter other problems in child birth, more than twice as many (6%) experienced excessive bleeding following delivery compared with normal weight women (3%).
the fda visits problem food plants about  once a year and the rest far less frequently, brackett said.
your facility can become an institutional  member for as low as $540 per year, which would provide you and your colleagues  with: a subscription to aami’s award-winning journal,bi&t, which includes practical articles of interest for ces, bmets, and other medical  technology professionals; a subscription to the monthly newsletter,aami news, to stay on top of breaking industry news; full access to aami's new online  journal, a comprehensive library of searchable and archived articles;  significant discounts on all educational program registration, aami standards  and other publications, which is available to all members of your facility;  access to salary benchmarking information, joint commission guidance, career  resources, networking opportunities, and much more.
the study suggests that ogg1 might offer a target for the development  of new huntington’s disease treatments.
the agreement, which is expected to be finalized in may,  will expand the offering of medassets net revenue services to include claims  management, remittance management, denial management solutions, and an array of  revenue cycle services and consulting.
the  guidelines reference the international diabetes federation (idf) cut-off points  for waist circumference, given that these measures better reflect the ethnic  diversity of canada.
wednesday, april 11, 2pm - 3pm eastern, “pdu: what’s in it  for suppliers?”
it will accelerate efforts to understand the genetic risk factors for this disease, as well as explore how these genetic factors interact with each other and with lifestyle factors,” said national institutes of health (nih
ravdin, m.d., of the anderson cancer center, and included investigators from  the national cancer institute and the los angeles biomedical research institute  at harbor-ucla medical center (la biomed).
they analyzed the data using statistical regression models to examine the mean epoetin dose and dose adjustment by profit, chain, and affiliation status of the centres that patients attended.
in the estimate, medicare’s hospital insurance trust fund is projected to be exhausted in 2019, one year later than estimated in last year's report.
“however, these biological mechanisms are uncertain, and a prematurely terminated pregnancy may not affect breast cancer risk at all.”
when that information is inconsistent or delayed, errors can occur that not only create rework and higher labor costs but also may result in financial losses for the various parties as the result of inaccurate pricing, rebates and chargebacks.
“the acquisition of carescience further demonstrates premier’s
through the partnership, ahrmm and asu will develop an online benchmarking and performance improvement tool using well established research method techniques that have been successfully applied to improving supply chain performance in other industries.
one in four hospital patients is admitted with a mental health or  substance abuse disorder almost one-fourth of all stays in u.s. community hospitals for patients age  18 and older, 7.6 million of nearly 32 million stays, involved depressive,  bipolar, schizophrenia and other mental health disorders or substance use  related disorders in 2004, according to a new report by hhs’ agency for  healthcare research and quality.
“all of this means more and more people will demand already strained intensive care services.
the tumours did not grow, and metastasis to the lungs was greatly reduced.
the facility will receive new control units at no cost by agreeing to purchase a minimum number of sensor pads over the next 24-month or 36-month period.
“we  encourage physicians to apologize about the outcome, not necessarily for any  error that may have occurred,” promutual spokeswoman nina akerley said.
children’s healthcare corp.  of america, a supply-purchasing cooperative of 42 children’s hospitals,  pilot-tested the bundles in 2005.
jani-king approves healthcare cleaning system after more than one year of research and testing, jani-king international  has partnered with rubbermaid to officially implement a color-coded microfiber  cleaning and disinfecting system into its standard environmental services  program.
health experts fear spread of these particular bacteria because they have developed resistance to the antibiotic drugs most commonly used to combat them.
the data submitted  later was accurate, belt said.
officials traced the melamine to two chinese  plants, which have been supplying american distributors since last summer.
we’ll refresh all of our contracts over the  next 18 months, delivering added value to all healthtrust members.”
“there is a long-standing controversy about whether you should even treat elevated blood pressure in stroke victims,” said lead author susan fagan, professor of clinical and administrative pharmacy at the uga college of pharmacy and the medical college of georgia.
this determination  has now been made in two consecutive years, triggering a “medicare  funding warning.”
instead, the vaccine has been purchased by the federal government  for inclusion within the u.s. strategic national stockpile for distribution by  public health officials if needed.
the company has  improved its software since the study was conducted, cascella added.
cutter said researchers will need to explore multiple changes that have occurred for women over the last several decades, including the use of oral contraceptives, earlier menstruation, obesity rates, changes in smoking rates, and later age of first births.
among high risk patients not taking  aspirin, the rate of heart attacks or strokes was higher for those on the cox  -2 inhibitor than it was for those on naproxen, but no higher than for those on  ibuprofen.
the study also produced some evidence that strengthens the case that  humans have had an impact on the movement of the flu out of asia.
surveying a wider group of interested parties, we found that this isn’t necessarily the best or only solution.”
“medicare is now providing  up-to-date preventive benefits and comprehensive drug coverage and is  developing better information on quality and costs of healthcare to ensure that  we pay appropriately for the healthcare of our beneficiaries.
the simulation also revealed  that flexible sigmoidoscopy screenings reduced the rate of cancer by just over  31 percent, while traditional colonoscopy reduced the rate by just over 40  percent.
the fy  2008 acute care hospital inpatient prospective payment system (ipps) proposed  rule would require a hospital to notify all patients in writing if a doctor of  medicine or doctor of osteopathy is not present in the hospital 24 hours a day,  seven days per week.
facilities interested in the trade-in program  should call dan mueller, sensatec representative, at toll free 1-800-669-9946  ext.
the 106,116 patients who attended large for-profit dialysis centres were  consistently administered the highest doses of epoetin compared with 28,199  patients who attended nonprofit centres, regardless of how anemic they were.
in the second experiment they used a combination of three drugs to  inhibit the action of the genes.
but the authors say that  their findings suggest that ibuprofen interferes with the blood thinning  properties of aspirin in patients at high risk of cardiovascular disease.
(associated press) severe dengue infections may go unrecognized in international travelers severe cases of a common travelers’ infection may not be  recognized if doctors rely on the world health organization’s (who)
prosecutors alleged that a medical assistant was told to tamper with blood samples to justify the hiv/aids therapies and to inject patients with a salt solution rather than medications.
“we don’t yet know why more women are developing ms than men, and more research is needed.”
compared to physicians practicing in hospitals, those in group practices were three times as likely to receive gifts and nearly four times more likely to be paid for professional services.
the researchers concluded that: “dialysis facility organizational status and ownership are associated with variation in epoetin dosing in the united states.
an interactive features area at the top of the new home page highlights a number of current issues, events and health topics with relevant photographs or videos.
children’s hospital at  vanderbilt university in nashville, tn.
the research was funded by the national  institutes of health (nih).
extensive data on patient flow and resource utilization is  generated through the software’s reporting engine to assist perioperative  departments to further analyze department utilization.
about two-thirds of the 28  participating hospitals were able to reduce infections by an average of 57%,  which barbara spreadbury, a vice president at chca, estimates saved 112  children’s lives, and nearly $1 million in potential treatment costs.
independent healthcare research leader announces new name:
ability to rapidly mutate into a pathogen that may eventually be passed between  humans that concerns health officials about a worldwide pandemic of h5n1  influenza.
the vaccine was obtained from a human strain and is intended for immunizing people 18 through 64 years of age who could be at increased risk of exposure to the h5n1 influenza virus contained in the vaccine.
anakinra was well tolerated by the study participants, and donath and his colleagues plan on conducting larger, follow-up studies of the medication.
only the use of hormone-replacement therapy changed substantially, with the total number of prescriptions for the two most commonly prescribed forms of hormone-replacement therapy in the u.s., premarin and prempro, having their steepest declines starting in 2002 and particularly in 2003 (62 million scripts in 2000, 61 million in 2001, 47 million in 2002, 24 million in 2003, 21 million in 2004, and 18 million in 2005).
the reduction of  hormone-replacement therapy could have caused a decreased incidence of breast  cancer by direct hormonal effects on the growth of occult breast cancers, a  change that would have affected predominantly er-positive tumors.
a new report from the alzheimer’s association says there are now more than 5 million americans living with the disease.
the fda has failed to recognize the evidence that the risk of heart attack varies substantially among this group of drugs and that voltaren has the highest risk of all.
she traveled all over the country with this mission.
should such an influenza pandemic emerge, the vaccine may provide early limited protection in the months before a vaccine tailored to the pandemic strain of the virus could be developed and produced.
it would allow about 52,000 more low-income people to qualify for free or cheaper coverage.
the drug anakinra is an interleukin-1-receptor antagonist, which means it can block the action of interleukin-1 beta.
besides rodriguez and arias, those indicted were carlos enrique monteagudo, alain rhaf vega, marisol gonzalez torres, edith balog, leonel galdos jr., william balladares, yulen arderi and jannette morales.
(before the va  got its electronic system, only 60 percent of patients’ charts could be  found on any given visit.)
the independent organization, formerly known as ecri, unveils its new logo, with the tagline “the discipline of science.
associations representing various healthcare professions will be invited to participate in benchmarking and performance improvement analysis on a frequent basis, allowing for longitudinal analysis of supply chain performance improvement in the field of healthcare.
because of continued rapid growth in expenditures for the  program as a whole, program costs financed by general revenues, rather than by  “dedicated revenues,” are projected to exceed 45 percent in  2013.
thus when ovarian,  endometrial and breast cancer are taken together, use of hrt results in a  material increase in these common cancers.”
a 30-year review of the medical literature concerning a common skin infection reveals that abscesses treated by simple incision and drainage heal just as well as those treated with incision, drainage and antibiotics.
the prevention rate dropped slightly, to 36.5 percent, when screenings focused only on polyps 6 millimeters and up.
the comment period closes on tuesday, june 26.the proposed rule is  available at this link.
but  prescriptions in the united states have fallen nearly 50 percent since 2003  amid the safety concerns.
“we hope this will minimize the number of unnecessary  biopsies,” said robert h. getzenberg, a molecular biologist at johns  hopkins hospital who developed the new test, which is still under study and not  yet commercially available.
as part of the health careers foundation, hire  heroes will help veterans returning from operation iraqi freedom and operation  enduring freedom with any level of disability as determined by the united  states department of veterans affairs.
so when leesar received notice that its new repackaging facility had passed inspection and then received its license with its four figured license number the excitement was that we could now free up our pharmacists to work on the patient floors with the doctors and nurses on medication management and by doing so insure the highest quality of patient care to our community.
neurodegenerative diseases of the central nervous system are frequently  accompanied by impaired learning and memory, and eventually dementia.
the national average in 2003, the last year for which data have been compiled, was 6.9.
however, our findings also support that  progress continues to be made at the top.
“the effect is much like what might  happen if a technician came to repair a minor defect in your computer but was  called away by a more urgent problem midway through the process.
for years, doctors have been fighting the perception that heart disease is a mainly male affliction.
the wave of “i’m sorry” laws is part of a movement in the medical industry to encourage doctors to promptly and fully inform patients of errors and, when warranted, to apologize.
patients in the study who had shoulder surgery had far less in-hospital post-surgical complications (7.5 percent) compared with those patients who had their hips and knees replaced (15.5 percent and 14.7 percent, respectively).
" together, premier and carescience serve more than 900 hospitals.
(scientific american) april 4, 2007 who proposes global agenda on transplantation states revising organ-donation law; critics fear measure may not go far  enough to protect donors $500 million pledged to fight childhood obesity rfid resource center launched; service provides knowledgebase for  healthcare supply chain hibcc & partners healthcare collaborate on patient safety standard 10 charged in $5 million medicare fraud study suggests some drug resistance to influenza b medications amerinet announces agreement with skytron for medical supplies who proposes global agenda on transplantation this week, at the second global consultation on transplantation the world  health organization (who) presented countries and other stakeholders with a  blueprint for updated global guiding principles on cell, tissue and organ  donation and transplantation.
prof tsai, who is also a howard hughes medical institute investigator, said: “this is exciting because our results show that learning ability can be improved and ‘lost’ long-term memories can be recovered even after a significant number of neurons have already been lost in the brain.”
rf technologies offers free sensatec bed and chair alarms as part  of trade-in program healthcare facilities can trade in outdated, unreliable bed and chair  alarms and receive a free upgrade to rf technologies’ sensatec fall  management alarms.
to that end, geisinger is uniquely positioned to develop such a test because of the array of resources the system has at its disposal.
madjid said: “most people develop atherosclerotic lesions in their coronary arteries in early childhood and these lesions grow over time.
april 5, 2007 health system to receive a license from state of florida  to operate a pharmaceutical repackaging facility study questions exam to detect breast cancer ibuprofen may boost chance of heart problems in high risk patients with  osteoarthritis scientists spot mutation linked to birth defects effect of hormone therapy on risk of heart disease may vary by age and  years since menopause medicare announces measure specifications for the physician quality  reporting initiative vaccine helps prevent ear infections health system to receive a license from state of florida to operate a  pharmaceutical repackaging facility four numbers on a piece of paper may not mean much to you, but for leesar  the supply chain company for lee memorial health system and sarasota memorial  health system (fl) it means a lot.
the reasons for the lack of decrease in the incidence of infections caused by e. coli o157 and salmonella are not fully understood.
the functional model is structured to allow vendors to implement a specific profile for real-world settings, such as the emergency department, and users to purchase a system that conforms to the profile.
but with their medical costs  ballooning, top executives of large companies are starting to speak up again,  and many are calling for a national approach to fixing healthcare.
he is the primary architect of the strategies for strategic sourcing, product formulary management, technology assessment and demand pull inventory, all programs being implemented at tuhs.
if a hha does not submit quality data, the home health market basket percentage increase would be reduced by 2 percentage points to 0.9 percent for cy 2008.
however, cms proposed to lower the outlier threshold to meet the legal requirement to continue paying between 5 and 6 percent of payments as outliers.
of the nearly 5,000 hospitals studied, the healthgrades study identified  242 hospitals, those in the top five percent of all hospitals, to serve as a  benchmark against which other hospitals can be evaluated, naming them  distinguished hospitals for patient safety.
but an independent congressional budget office analysis found that the proposal would not result in cheaper drugs unless congress modified the program, possibly restricting access and choice for beneficiaries.
a 2006 study by the kaiser family foundation and hewitt associates found that premiums in the united states had risen about 87 percent since 2000.
belt, the lilly spokesman, said in a statement that the company properly marketed zyprexa and disclosed its side effects to the f.d.a. and doctors.
to be ranked in overall patient-safety performance, hospitals had to be rated in at least 19 of the 28 procedures and diagnoses rated by healthgrades and have a current overall healthgrades star rating of at least 2.5 out of 5.0.
accuprice, a pharmacy-auditing tool, takes unique  provider contract price files and audits the distribution invoice file to  identify price variances.
the report recommends that policymakers eliminate or modify the “in-home-use” requirement in the medicare statute and regulations.
and the study showed that computer-aided  detection was finding proportionately more very early precancerous growths.
this dengue spread “is one of the  primordial public health problems the country faces,” said mexico’s  public health department, which has sent hundreds of workers to the resorts of  puerto vallarta, cancun and acapulco to try to avert outbreaks ahead of the  easter week vacation.
sixty-six thousand kidneys were  transplanted in 2005 representing a mere 10% of the estimated need.
cms will publish the final ncd no later than sixty days after the end of the comment period.
researchers  analyzed data from the 2003 nationwide inpatient sample and published  literature.
computer-aided detection, the researchers  wrote, “was associated with significantly higher false positive rates,  recall rates, and biopsy rates and with significantly lower overall  accuracy.”
glycated hemoglobin, also referred to as  glycosylated hemoglobin or a1c, is a test that measures the average amount of  glucose in the blood for about three months.
“we have 60,000 to 80,000 facilities that we’re responsible for in any given year,” brackett said.
“seventy percent to 80 percent of the  tendency to get otitis media is genetic.
this rebranding process is the  first for the independent nonprofit founded in 1968.
it results, in part, from choices society  makes about working conditions, health care, transportation, housing, and other  aspects of our environment.
scrushy was charged by the justice department and the sec in 2003 with accounting fraud and insider trading.
a third of women were  treated at a hospital that performed fewer than 10 ovarian cancer surgeries a  year, not at the high-volume facilities that are considered superior.
his  dedication to the healthcare field and community service has won him  international recognition and several prestigious awards, including iahcsmm  presidential citation subject matter expert.
hill said that extra nurses and an additional surgeon were called in to help treat more than a dozen patients sent to the 146-bed hospital.
touro infirmary selects broadlane for supply chain services broadlane announced that touro infirmary, new orleans’ only community based, not-for-profit, faith-based hospital, has selected broadlane to provide an array of supply chain services under an exclusive agreement.
“it doesn’t go the whole way, but it’s good enough for today,” said john mcdonough, executive director of health care for all, an advocacy group.
cms worked closely with the small business administration to establish a new definition of small suppliers that is reflective of this area of the health care industry.
the study is published in the journalnature.
around 30% were current  hrt users and 20% had previously received hrt.
the experts’ prime  advice for women diagnosed with ovarian cancer or suspected ovarian cancer:  seek out a specialist.
the vaccine alters that equation, but  the effect isn’t dramatic.”
this tool will allow hospitals and providers to compare their  performance with organizations of similar size and operation.
none of her family was  found to have bird flu, it added.
in the reimbursement component of the score, there was a 20-fold  difference between alaska, which had the most generous reimbursement, and new  jersey, which had the least.
“through health careers foundations’ connections within the healthcare industry, the hire heroes program will help thousands of our veterans with disabilities throughout our nation,” said clayton shepherd, chief executive officer, health careers foundation.
however, the body has its limits, and some of these patients took 300 times the daily recommended dose of niacin.”
but executives at the company whose equipment was used in the study, hologic, said they interpreted the results differently.
in an accompanying editorial (use of epoetin in chronic renal failure), dr daniel coyne, professor of medicine at washington university school of medicine, in st. louis, said that the authorities disagree on what the optimal level of hemoglobin in the blood should be.
the final ranking set included 752 teaching hospitals and 857 non-teaching hospitals.
stories are categorized under  major topics, such as energy savings and waste reduction, making it easy for  hospitals to find specific information on programs of interest.
“we  don’t yet know why more women are developing ms than men, and more  research is needed.”
dr. siobhan quenby from the university of liverpool’s obstetrics department commented: “in the meantime it is vital pre-pregnancy advice and counseling is available to women about the implications of weight on childbirth.
for the past two years leesar has been  trying to receive a license from the state of florida department of public  health to operate a pharmaceutical repackaging facility.
premier’s epp program, a collaboration of the safety institute and premier's group purchasing program, supports the efforts of members and the industry-at-large to enhance the safety and health of patients, healthcare workers and the environment.
he has been a faculty member of numerous colleges teaching in the divisions of business administration and health sciences.
together, these tools offer physicians reduced technique variability, providing a shorter learning curve and reduced procedure time.
in 2006, researchers in canada reported that statins  act against sepsis, a dangerous blood infection, and a 2005 study found the  death rate was 64 percent lower in pneumonia patients who had been taking  statins.
emergency medicine to benefit from the hl7’s first  registered clinical profile health level seven (hl7), a healthcare it standards development  organization, announced the emergency care functional profile (ec fm) as the  first registered profile based upon hl7’s ehr system functional model  (ehr-s fm) standard.
population is too small, it registers only 100 births a year, to be  statistically significant.
the patient, marianna kameel mikhail, is from the shubra district, cairo.
julia ho, of the agency’s office of international programs, said chinese authorities also are investigating.
however, pickhardt noted that the high-tech procedure is not yet  widely available.
raul rodriguez and armando arias were accused of committing fraud using coral way professional services and sunshine health center of miami, as well as r&j medical services and n.r. medical services, both located in miami-dade county.
these technologies have been compared before, but the current analysis relies on the notion that identifying and removing polyps smaller than 6 millimeters won’t do much to reduce colorectal cancer cases.
but a new  discovery about how cells repair their dna points to a possible way to stop or  slow the onset of the disease.
fda also alerted the company to its manufacturing deficiencies and other violations in two warning letters.
based in st. louis, with offices in salt lake city, providence, ri, and warrendale, pa, amerinet serves more than 22,000 acute and non-acute healthcare providers nationwide.
but this research challenges that and suggests that cancer cells start migrating to other sites from the start.
children’s healthcare corp. of america, a supply-purchasing cooperative of 42 children’s hospitals, pilot-tested the bundles in 2005.
the third  phase moves this project to initial data collection and model validation  activities where a sample of targeted organizations will provide data for  validating the metric definitions and testing the use of the benchmarking and  analysis tool.
medassets supply chain systems also  presented awards to gpo suppliers who work with healthcare providers to help  them realize greater cost efficiency.
the  aim now is to test a more comprehensive set of measures over a longer period  and get them adopted as standard procedure, according to mary gorman, a vice  president overseeing the project at nachri.
suppliers have the opportunity to reduce business costs and introduce new  products to hospitals, faster, with a pdu in place.
premier’s performance suite is a single source for integrating quality and safety, labor management, and supply chain efficiency.
linked to america’s increasing obesity problem, doctors have predicted a steep increase in the coming years.
the technology is currently undergoing additional clinical and engineering testing and is expected to be introduced at alpha sites in late 2007.
critics say it could result in  people becoming donors or kept on life support against their or their  family’s wishes.
however, the first variants detected may not  themselves directly influence disease susceptibility, and the actual causative  variant may lie nearby.
you will also hear from executives from ascent healthcare  solutions, kci, ge healthcare, owens & minor, consorta, medassets, novation  and premier.
the greatest  difference in dosing practice patterns between centres was found among patients  with hematocrit levels of less than 33 percent.
these hospitals have been assailed for cherry-picking the most profitable procedures from the nation’s 4,500 or so full-service hospitals.
small steps lead to healthier hearts for women china alters organ transplant laws lehigh valley hospital and health network selects patient care technology systems’ automatic or tracking software fda provides web access to information on post-approval device studies the u.s. food and drug administration (fda) unveiled a new web page that will keep the public informed about the status of post-approval patient studies for certain recently approved medical devices.
the new levels would have graduated payment levels between the proposed therapy thresholds to reduce incentives to inappropriately target higher thresholds.
“when women go to have an angiogram, there have been situations where doctors don’t see any blockages, even though the patient has symptoms and a bad stress test,” she said.
for more information about orthosoft's  navitrack navigation system seethis link.
“between 10 and 20% of people catch flu every year, and i have estimated that we can prevent up to 90,000 coronary deaths a year in the us if every high risk patient received an annual flu vaccination.”
influenza b mutants with  reduced sensitivity to neuraminidase inhibitors are circulating, and these  viruses can cause infections with no difference in duration of symptoms, level  of viral shedding, or clinical outcome.
"carescience's robust clinical analytics, research capabilities and dedicated employees enhance premier's industry-leading capabilities for improving healthcare quality while safely reducing the cost of care," said stephanie alexander, premier senior vice president.
“fewer than 10 percent of young adults with high-risk behaviors have received hbv vaccine,” they said.
under the state health insurance assistance programs (ships), cms  provides funding to 54 ships, including all  50 states, and the district  of columbia, puerto rico, guam and the virgin islands.
the new study of computer-aided detection was an analysis of 429,345 mammograms obtained from 1998 to 2002 at 43 mammography centers.
within the class of cephalosporins, cdc now recommends ceftriaxone, available as an injection, the preferred treatment for all types of gonorrhea infection.
“the body has a tremendous ability  to heal itself over time, and we can now see that this includes skin abscesses,  at least those that do not include cellulitis.
the guide now features a larger funnel for instrument  insertion and will accept a full range of needle sizes including: 8.5fr,  14-23ga.
pickhardt is not suggesting that virtual colonoscopies replace traditional optical screening.
that is the hope  expressed by christoph klein, who studies metastasis at the university of  regensburg in germany.
“as a water-soluble vitamin, it is easily excreted from the body.
many treatments for alzheimer’s and other brain degenerative diseases target the early stages, while this study suggests memory and learning may be restorable even when the brain is already quite damaged.
the new web page is available at this link.
however, the farther a woman was from the onset of menopause when she  began hormone therapy, the greater her risk of chd due to hormone therapy  appeared to be.
hire heroes will help to ease this shortage as well as ease the transition from military to civilian life.”
in light of the recent observation that oseltamivir may be less effective against influenza b than against influenza a, an important concern is whether suboptimal dosing for these viruses will lead to increased selection of viruses with high-level resistance.”
this professionally moderated session, with material managers only, will address current strategies, results and lessons learned from each of the participants.
under the clinical trial policy, first developed in september 2000, medicare pays for certain items and services for medicare beneficiaries involved in clinical trials.
between 1993 and 2003, 1,458 new cases of breast cancer occurred among the women.
but the levinson letter suggests not.
her commitment to education in the field of central service was paramount.
the healthcare  supply chain benchmarking and performance improvements metrics is in the  first phase of development.
to be classified  as severely obese, a person must have a body mass index of 40 or higher,  roughly 100 pounds or more overweight for an average adult man.
the seattle team analyzed hospital data from up to nine states for the period between 1999 to 2002, looking at factors associated with comprehensive surgical care.
contact spsmedical at 1-800-722-1529 or info@spsmedical.com for a free catalog  and more information.
“relying on autopsy reports rather than death certificates enabled us to be much more accurate about the cause of death, because doctors often neglect to list flu on a death certificate if their patients have died from a heart attack and, conversely, heart attack symptoms can be missed in patients suffering from flu and pneumonia.”
financial terms were not announced.
the changes are designed to make it easier for people to find health information and resources quickly.
the study found that daily injections of anakinra led to a drop in long-term levels of glucose in the blood, while they increased in people given a placebo.
further, 16% of women are underinsured, meaning they have high  out-of-pocket costs compared to their income, while only 9% of men are  underinsured.
stakeholders agreed to the creation of a global forum on transplantation to be spearheaded by who, to assist and support developing countries initiating transplantation programs and to work towards a unified global coding system for cells, tissues and organs.
all of the orlando distribution center’s dea audits, the most recent within the last year, were passed with no deficiencies found.
suicide attempts accounted for nearly 179,000 hospital stays.
samolovitch was promoted to amerinet ceo last june as the gpo celebrated  its 20th anniversary and was embarking on a new business model that unified its  three shareholder organizations under a single national platform.
april 25, 2007 fda causes unnecessary scare about common painkillers u.s. wonders if drug data was accurate fda to test imported additives for melamine new virus discovered; 3 organ transplant recipients in australia  succumb to infection study links faulty dna repair to huntington’s disease onset medicare trustees release annual report only 1 week left to take advantage of special aami membership
“if they can’t recite their cholesterol levels or blood pressure, they need to schedule a visit with their doctor because that shows those probably haven’t been checked in a while,” goldberg said.
he succeeded the retiring robert p. “bud” bowen.
however, this remains to be shown.”
in the second experiment they used a combination of three drugs to inhibit the action of the genes.
the transaction was approved by the boards of directors of both quovadx and premier.
even women  with health insurance are falling behind in their mammograms.
anywhere hand sanitizing spray helps industry  professionals prevent spread of infection clorox’s professional products division extends the clorox  brand’s health and wellness efforts beyond surfaces to hand hygiene with  the launch of clorox anywhere hand sanitizing spray, representing the  company’s first entry into the personal care category.
“our research has shown that influenza epidemics are associated with a  rise in coronary deaths.
the new test is not perfect, though.
for the study, researchers examined a database (the north american research committee on multiple sclerosis, or narcoms, hosted at barrow neurological institute in phoenix, ariz.) of 30,336 people with ms and determined the male/female ratio according to the year the disease was diagnosed and the age of the person when the disease started.
but this research challenges that and suggests  that cancer cells start migrating to other sites from the start.
the study found that people carrying one copy of the fto allele have a 30% increased risk of being obese compared to a person with no copies.
doctors  say she is in a ‘stable’ condition.
and  the modest doses found in pet food would be diluted even further in the body of  a pig that ate it.
for now the ceo position will not exist, according to lisa  dimuccio-conway, amerinet’s vice president of marketing, and “there  is not to be a ceo search at this time.”
prior to joining temple, mosser was president and lead  consultant for ktm consulting, llc a supply chain and information systems  project management consulting firm in bethlehem, pa.
these products have been marketed under various  names, including tigan, tebamide, t-gen, trimazide, and trimethobenz.
on average, compared with nonprofit centres, for-profit centres increased epoetin doses 3-fold for patients with hematocrit levels of less than 33 percent.
it’s a personal choice.
we believe that distinguished hospitals have  deliberately chosen and maintained patient safety as a top priority.”
he originally  hailed from salt lake city-based intermountain health care, another key  amerinet shareholder.
tumours formed from cancer that has spread or metastased from the primary site to other parts of the body cause 90 percent of cancer deaths.
then they help tumour cells get into the bloodstream, penetrate capillary walls in the lungs, become established, and start multiplying.
the vaccine will be manufactured at sanofi  pasteur's swiftwater, pa, facility.
the hope is that it can be developed into a viable way of relieving blood bank shortages.
an analysis of a large number of trials comparing cox-2 inhibitors to other nsaids found similar results, that voltaren was estimated to increase vascular risk by about 70 percent over aleve.
“we are getting ourselves out on thinner and thinner ice,” said dr. suzanne w. fletcher, an emerita professor of ambulatory care and prevention at harvard medical school.
furthermore, they should be monitored at regular intervals; patients  participating in weight management programs should be provided with education  and support in behavior modification techniques as an add-on to other lifestyle  modifications; programs to promote healthy, active living and to prevent  overweight and obesity should be implemented in schools to reduce the risk of  childhood obesity; these include interventions to increase daily physical  activity through physical education class-time and opportunities for active  recreation; “screen time” (e.g. television watching, and video or  computer games) should be limited to less than two hours per day to encourage  increased activity and less food consumption, and to limit exposure to food  advertising.
the initial grant is distributed as a fixed award of $75,000 ($25,000 to guam and the virgin islands) to each of the applicants.
the researchers also reported that after women stop taking hrt, their risk of ovarian cancer returns to that found in never-users of hrt.
canada is the first country in the world to  produce comprehensive evidence-based guidelines to address the management and  prevention of overweight and obesity in adults and children.
proponents of the specialty hospitals say the abilene and such cases  are aberrations that critics are exploiting to defend the turf of full-service  hospitals.
but less than 10 percent have systems that store all necessary data, allow electronic ordering of tests and provide clinical reminders.
nearly half of these cases with dual diagnoses involved drug abuse, a third involved alcohol abuse, and one in five involved both drug and alcohol abuse.
“the typical treatment for an emergency patient with a skin abscess is incision, drainage and antibiotics, but it looks like incision and drainage alone are enough,” said study author worth w. everett, md, of the university of pennsylvania department of emergency medicine.
should a hospital be able to handle a medical emergency?
they  can’t tell the difference between a tumour that won't spread and one that  will.
while  medicare’s rules currently say a hospital must “meet the emergency  needs of patients in accordance with acceptable standards of practice,”  the details are left largely to the hospital’s discretion.
the indictment charges that the accused received about $2.5 million in fraudulent durable medical equipment claims and $3.2 million for false billing of infusion therapies.
hospitals and other healthcare providers can then utilize the tool to activate contracts, with manufacturer approval and agreement on effective dates occurring in a collaborative online environment.
an element of good news in this year’s trustees report involves the new prescription drug benefit under medicare part d. the latest cost projections for part d through 2015 are 13 percent lower than estimated in last year’s report (and substantially lower than the original estimates from 2003).
only in the case of someone grieving over the death of a loved one is it normal for symptoms to last as long as two months, the manual says.
this webinar is led by robert perry, senior consultant, mts, inc., 2006 president of the association for health care resource & materials management (ahrmm), chair, ches product data utility provider/idn working group and mike brown, director of purchasing, university health care system.
a panel of federal drug advisers voted 20 to 1 thursday to reject an application by merck to sell its pain pill arcoxia because of concerns that the drug could cause as many as 30,000 heart attacks annually if widely used.
about 40% of the recent decline in cancer deaths among men is due to declines in their smoking rates over the past 50 years, the report says.
they looked at all arthroplasties performed in maryland to alleviate osteoarthritis pain between 1994 and 2001, including details of 15, 414 hip surgeries, 34, 471 knee operations and 625 shoulder procedures.
although smoking rates among both youth and adults began dropping in 1997, that  decline appears to have stalled.
novaplus products include a wide range of  products, including anesthesia, medical, pharmaceutical, radiology, respiratory  and surgical products.
mrsa, a powerful staph infection sometimes referred to as a  “superbug,” has proliferated recently in many public settings,  including hospitals and healthcare facilities.
mammograms for women in their 40s should be based on individual should all women in their 40s be routinely screened for breast  cancer?
the hiv virus was suppressed in 45 percent of the patients, compared with 23 percent who took a placebo.
in february, pfizer announced that marketing authorization applications for maraviroc were receiving accelerated review in both the us and europe.
costs were less than half that of  traditional colonoscopy when broken down by year of life saved.
hospital officials kept friends and family members sequestered away from the news media.
infants account for more than 90 percent of  pertussis deaths in the u.s.
the findings are consistent with a number of studies, including one last year that found american adults have poorer health than their british counterparts, and a preliminary analysis of data collected between 1972 and 2003 for the national health interview survey, a nationally representative survey of more than 100,000 americans.
who action on  transplantation will be aided by a global observatory set up in madrid under  the auspices of the government of spain.
this e-learning platform will be utilized to provide physicians with a self-paced curriculum and associated tools, based on adult learning principles, available at their convenience.
in  addition, the combination of masimo rainbow set pulse oximetry and masimo arm  should assist hospitals in being compliant with new american society of  anesthesia (asa) guidelines for management of patients at risk of obstructive  sleep apnea (osa) by providing an accurate and reliable combination of oxygen  saturation and respiration rate monitoring.
(healthday news) massachusetts offers details on health coverage massachusetts is poised to become the first state to make it  possible for 99 percent of its adults to be covered by health insurance, with  an ambitious plan that sets limits for the premiums people would be expected to  pay.
in one they switched off the genes, and in another they  targeted them with drugs.
electronic records can also improve  physician performance.
cms is creating a limited exception to the competitive bidding requirement  that will allow certain treating professionals to furnish items on the  competitive bidding list to their own patients without having to participate in  bidding and without becoming a contract supplier.
after identifying promising leads through this approach, the three research teams jointly replicated their findings using smaller, more focused sets of genetic markers in additional groups totaling more than 22,000 people from finland, poland, sweden, the united kingdom and the united states.
the meeting endorsed who’s efforts to link vaccine manufacturers in developed and developing countries to speed the transfer of technology to manufacture influenza vaccine.
but a new discovery about how cells repair their dna points to a possible way to stop or slow the onset of the disease.
carescience's physician-accepted, clinical expertise complements premier's process improvement focus and unparalleled database of hospital comparative data.
the guidance does not apply to critical access hospitals  (cahs), which are small, rural hospitals that are subject to separate  regulation.
the heaviest groups  have been increasing at the fastest rates for the past 20 years.
state officials say the county’s
nonalcoholic fatty liver disease starts with the accumulation  of fat on the liver, which leads to inflammation and scarring.
(the  new york times)
a lilly spokesman, phil belt, said the company had rechecked  its database and found errors in the original statistics.
for now the ceo position will not exist, according to lisa dimuccio-conway, amerinet’s vice president of marketing, and “there is not to be a ceo search at this time.”
their study of 36 genomes of the virus collected from wild birds in europe, the middle east and africa (ema), and vietnam confirms not only that the virus has very recently spread west from asia, but that two of the new western strains have already independently combined, or reassorted, to create a new strain.
hire heroes’ goal is to place more than 8,000 heroes in jobs within the healthcare industry in the first three years of operation.
once that risk is known, women can take steps to improve their health, mieres said.
to achieve greater transparency, fda would continue to foster interactive review by encouraging informal communication with companies; facilitate the timely scheduling of informal and formal meetings; expand the kinds of performance information fda makes available to the public; enhance opportunities for stakeholders to provide input into guidance document development; facilitate the development of guidance to streamline the processes and to clarify the data requirements for the approval or clearance of imaging devices that use contrast agents or radiopharmaceuticals.
their findings are published online in the journalscience.
by mid-spring that year, the number of cases reached more than 20,000.
jani-king has already implemented this new cleaning and disinfecting standard into its healthcare certificate program.
medicare, medicaid, and private health plans employ outdated policies for covering assistive technologies and services.
fda’s new web page includes information on all post-approval device  studies ordered by fda since jan. 1, 2005.
reports of pertussis have increased most dramatically among adolescents and adults.
hi expenditure growth is estimated to average 7.2 percent per year over the next 10 years.
new england journal of medicine.
the guidelines were  developed by a panel of experts from across canada, who identified a need for a  comprehensive set of clinical guidelines to provide healthcare practitioners  with a toolkit to manage and treat overweight and obese patients, as well as  those who have a high waist circumference.
a follow-up  survey released last year found that number had climbed to 55 percent.
touro infirmary will gain access to broadlane’s  existing portfolio of contracts and, in addition, broadlane will assist touro
for every $1 spent on tobacco control in the us in 2003, the tobacco industry spent $23 promoting products.
to learn more about foodnet, see this link http://www.cdc.gov/foodnet/. the centers for disease control and prevention (cdc) no longer recommends antibiotics known as fluoroquinolones (ciprofloxacin, ofloxacin, and levofloxacin) as a treatment for gonorrhea in the united states.
psa, the  current test, measures a protein normally produced by the prostate, while the  experimental one, called epca-2, detects a chemical made principally in  cancerous tissue.
the  program, which is paid for with private money, buses nearly all pregnant blacks  in sharkey and a small neighboring county to pre- and postnatal classes.
the centers for medicare & medicaid services (cms) issued a final rule that will reduce beneficiary out-of-pocket costs, improve the accuracy of medicare’s payments for certain durable medical equipment, prosthetics, orthotics, and supplies (dmepos), help combat supplier fraud, and ensure beneficiary access to high quality dmepos items and services through a new competitive bidding program.
the setbacks have raised questions about the impact of cuts in  welfare and medicaid and of poor access to doctors, and, many doctors say, the  growing epidemics of obesity, diabetes and hypertension among potential  mothers, some of whom tip the scales here at 300 to 400 pounds.
no illnesses have been reported to date in connection with  this recall.
what this study really did was look across a broad  geographic area of the u.s. it gave us a good sense of what is happening in our  country,” she said.
the finding could have far-reaching consequences  for the diagnosis of depression, the growing use of symptom checklists to  identify those who may be depressed, and the $12 billion-a-year u.s. market for  antidepressant drugs.
the new data, from cdc’s gonococcal isolate surveillance  project (gisp) in 26 u.s. cities, showed that among heterosexual men, the  proportion of gonorrhea cases that were fluoroquinolone-resistant neisseria  gonorrhoeae (qrng) reached 6.7 percent in the first half of 2006, an 11-fold  increase from 0.6 percent in 2001.
the rapid tests generally involve a nasal or throat swab and can be examined in the doctor’s office.
dengue surging in mexico, latin america
“we hope it can serve as a first test for those folks who don’t have access to research facilities.”
the new standard is being developed from work initiated by massachusetts general hospital (mgh), a hospital within the partners healthcare system.
the researchers, including michael b. first of columbia university, the editor of the authoritative diagnostic manual, based their findings on a national survey of 8,098 people.
two-thirds of americans are overweight, and those extra pounds make  joints wear out more quickly, boost cholesterol and blood pressure, and raise  the risk of a host of debilitating health problems.
her team published the findings online april 9 in the  journalcancer.
these are also  important guidelines for health professionals and policy-makers to help them  address canada’s increasing prevalence rates.
“when doctors go  in to look, there are no kinks, so they can’t be stented,” goldberg  said.
stephen sundlof, director of the fda’s center for veterinary medicine, said a second chemical called cyanuric acid, which is related to melamine, has also been found in samples of rice protein concentrate.
to learn more about the hire heroes organization, please visit www.hireheroesusa.org, or contact bayne tippins, director, hire heroes, 1-866-915-hero.
“there are lots of efforts to bridge the growing gap between demand and supply,” said arthur l. caplan, a university of pennsylvania bioethicist.
“the number of americans over the age of 65 is  expected to double by 2030.
in addition to cost savings, the benefits of  supplyline include reduced waste and excess, improved inventory controls,  improved utilization management and outcome analysis.
republicans block medicare drug price bill senate republicans blocked legislation yesterday that would have allowed  the federal government to negotiate medicare drug prices, denying democrats a  victory on their 2006 election vow to lower prescription costs for senior  citizens.
niaid is expanding the surveillance and research program to now include six centers of excellence for influenza research and surveillance, residing at st. jude children’s research hospital, memphis, university of california at los angeles, university of minnesota, minneapolis, emory university, atlanta, mount sinai school of medicine, new york city and university of rochester, rochester, ny.
in the popular mind, the chief deficit in medical records is legible  handwriting.
this suggested that the test may eliminate many of the “false-positive” psa results, readings that are abnormal but apparently do not denote cancer.
“community hospitals play an important role in the treatment of people with mental health and substance abuse disorders,” said ahrq director carolyn m. clancy, m.d.
(healthday news) va takes the lead in paperless care
proportion of americans who are severely obese rising faster than those who are moderately obese
the observatory, which is linked to  the who global knowledge base, will provide an interface for health authorities  and the general public to access data on donation and transplantation  practices, legal frameworks and obstacles to equitable access.
“we are already beginning to implement steps to protect medicare for  future generations,” said centers for medicare & medicaid services  acting administrator leslie v. norwalk.
most people in western countries live with different stages of atherosclerosis and many will never show any clinical manifestations of the atherosclerosis.
the analyses also suggest that the increased risk in heart disease due to  hormone therapy in older women is primarily in those who also have hot flashes  and night sweats.
as of april 26, sites in the following  states are believed to have received and used contaminated product: california,  kansas, new york, north carolina, south carolina and utah.
the study is  published in the current issue of thejournal of the american medical  association (jama).
smaller rises also occurred in 2005 in alabama, north carolina and tennessee.
this change results from slightly higher projected income and slightly  lower projected expenditures than shown in last year’s report.
when patients  show signs of clinical deterioration, distress or changes in vital signs, the  team is called within minutes to the bedside for rapid assessment and  treatment.
mrsa, a powerful staph infection sometimes referred to as a “superbug,” has proliferated recently in many public settings, including hospitals and healthcare facilities.
the rapidity of the change suggests that clinically occult breast cancers stopped progressing or even regressed soon after the discontinuation of the therapy.
premier’s epp  program, a collaboration of the safety institute and premier's group purchasing  program, supports the efforts of members and the industry-at-large to enhance  the safety and health of patients, healthcare workers and the environment.
the  new study, however, found that extended periods of depression-like symptoms are  common in people who have been through other life stresses such as a divorce or  a natural disaster and that they do not necessarily constitute illness.
people without diabetes generally have levels around 5 percent.
available now, this innovative  technology is latex-free and contains no elastomeric polymers or chemical  additives, resulting in a versatile fabric that can meet a variety of industry  needs.
it was developed over many years by many people, including hundreds of clinicians.
people with two copies of a particular gene variant have a 70% higher risk of being obese than those with no copies.
small surgical hospitals may not have separate emergency facilities or, as in the texas case, a doctor on site at all times during a patient’s recovery.
dr. langston said the state was working to extend prenatal care and was experimenting with new outreach programs.
the authors expressed concern that overprescription of epoetin  was taking place in the for-profit centres.
the reports’ lead author is peter
this is to help eligible professionals to identify  measures applicable to their practices and to prepare for submission of quality  data in advance of the july 1, 2007 start date of the program.
in fact, there are major differences between these agents.”
the findings appeared in an online version of the journalclinical orthopedics.
april 16, 2007 cms proposes payment reforms for inpatient hospital  services in 2008 staph aureus infection rates on the rise in u.s. hospitals rhode island hospital study identifies high-risk patient populations  for mrsa carriage rare case of dental patient-to-patient hepatitis b virus transmission  recorded premier healthcare alliance launches ‘green’  best-practices web site jani-king approves healthcare cleaning system independent healthcare research leader announces new name: ecri  institute healthcare providers to benefit from amerinet’s agreement with
who action on transplantation will be aided by a global observatory set up in madrid under the auspices of the government of spain.
consumers with questions may contact charlie brown company at 011-039-080-7839073 or charliebrownbari@yahoo.com.
all 12 consorta  shareholders are participating in the combination, along with consorta  affiliates.
as the supply chain advisor (sca) database becomes populated by  these new attributes, sca users will be trained so they can begin to use the  new search capabilities.
as a result, phone calls and other manual interventions to manage care progression are reduced resulting in more timely care and a quieter patient environment.
the assessment that, if there were to be harm to human health, it would be very low, is based on a number of factors, including the dilution of the contaminating melamine and melamine-related compounds from the original rice protein concentrate as it moves through the food system.
to achieve greater transparency, fda would continue to foster  interactive review by encouraging informal communication with companies;  facilitate the timely scheduling of informal and formal meetings; expand the  kinds of performance information fda makes available to the public; enhance  opportunities for stakeholders to provide input into guidance document  development; facilitate the development of guidance to streamline the processes  and to clarify the data requirements for the approval or clearance of imaging  devices that use contrast agents or radiopharmaceuticals.
last month, the authority voted to require all  plans to have substantial coverage, including prescription drug benefits, which  raised further questions about how expensive the insurance would be.
of seven cases confirmed in cambodia, all have been fatal.
the use of these rapid tests has been growing during the past few years and more than 10 variations of the tests have been approved by the food and drug administration, the cdc said.
get the fast flu test fast flu tests, which drastically cut the time to diagnose a patient with influenza or not, are helping doctors better treat the illness, according to a recent study and medical experts.
in 2009, hospitals would be paid 100 percent based on  cost-based drg weights.
“people [in previous studies] have looked at this on a  state-by-state basis.
fagan said that in addition  to protecting the brain and blood vessels through lowering blood pressure, arbs  appear to provide additional benefits by blocking the damaging effects of  angiotensin ii, a molecule released from the brain and probably other tissues  following stroke.
but prescriptions in the united states have fallen nearly 50 percent since 2003 amid the safety concerns.
“our study is proof of concept for a mechanism underlying the disease and (may possibly) block its progression,” said donath, who added, “interleukin-1 beta may be involved in other complications of the disease, such as arteriosclerosis.
at least 1,200 more lawsuits are pending.
a follow-up survey released last year found that number had climbed to 55 percent.
these findings are consistent with the primary publications from the whi trials of estrogen plus progestin and estrogen-alone (total of 27,347 participants) in showing no overall benefit for chd, and in suggesting that risk due to hormones may differ depending on age or years since menopause.
“this  is the first time anyone’s looked at all of the h5n1 genomes in the  west,” said steven salzberg, the study’s lead author and director  of the university of maryland center for bioinformatics and computational  biology.
based in richardson, tx, xactimed is ranked number one in klas for claims management in 2006.
named motivate-1 and 2 (maraviroc plus optimized therapy in viremic antiretroviral treatment-experienced patients), the trials show 24 weeks of data comparing optimized background therapy, with or without maraviroc, in over 1,000 highly treatment-experienced patients with ccr5-tropic hiv-1.
much previous research has found that women who are treated by specialists, in this case gynecologic oncologists, have better survival, and that those who have complete removal of the tumor (which is more often done by a specialist) have better survival.
“if there’s a patient requiring palliative or comfort care, you treat them first.
this proposed rule contains the first refinements to the medicare home health prospective payment system (hh pps) since 2000 and also contains the annual update to the medicare hh pps payment rates.
earlier drugs under development were linked to lymphoma and liver damage.
the researchers currently do not know why  people with copies of the fto allele have an increased bmi and rates of  obesity.
eligible professionals who successfully report data for  a designated set of quality measures may earn a bonus payment, subject to a  cap, of 1.5 percent of total allowed charges for covered medicare physician fee  schedule services provided during the reporting period of july 1, 2007 to  december 31, 2007.
additionally, some centers will monitor for international and domestic  cases of animal and human influenza to rapidly detect and characterize viruses  that may have pandemic potential and to create vaccine candidates targeted to  those viruses.
most adolescents and adults are not diagnosed with pertussis because  they frequently have milder cases of the disease and physicians still perceive  pertussis as a childhood disease.
it allows any authorized person to look at  5.3 million patients’ records, everything from a nurse’s note  written during a hospital stay, to the result of a blood test drawn at a clinic  visit, to the moving-picture film of a coronary angiogram done in a cardiology  lab.
scrushy was charged by the justice department  and the sec in 2003 with accounting fraud and insider trading.
data from 2004 showed a leveling-off relative to the 2003 rate with little additional decrease.
supplyline is a core component in cardinal health’s rapidly growing  supply technologies business that enables healthcare providers and companies to  evaluate more than 800,000 healthcare products and research alternatives from  thousands of manufacturers.
that enabled  the investigators to compare results with and without computer software to help  radiologists find suspicious spots.
tobacco use is expected to cause some 168,000 cancer deaths this year alone, and overall it’s the single largest preventable cause of disease and death in the us.
scientists have been trying to find ways to reverse the process and re-establish the ability to learn and remember.
manufacturers would continue to pay fees when they submit applications for some types of medical device applications, but at a lower rate than under the current program.
however, niacin is toxic when taken in large amounts.”
arcoxia is a sister to vioxx, which merck withdrew in 2004 after a study showed that it also increased the risks of heart attacks and strokes.
and some worry that the measure could make doctors more  hesitant about administering morphine and other drugs to make dying patients  comfortable, for fear of rendering their organs useless for transplantation.
cairo’s first human bird flu infection confirmed authorities in egypt have confirmed that a girl, 15, is the first human to become infected with the bird flu virus in the capital, cairo, the 34th human to become infected in the country so far.
the united states faces important decisions that  could reduce, or increase, the extent to which people can live independently  and be involved in their communities.
a policy paper and principles assuring that physicians are given the opportunity to comment on performance ratings that they believe are inaccurate were adopted this week by the american college of physicians (acp) at its annual meeting april 19-21 in san diego.
as the number of doctor-owned surgical hospitals grows, federal and state officials now acknowledge that the government rules may be too vague about the emergency abilities a hospital must have in place.
when the co-receptor “sees” the hiv virus it signals to the main cd4 cell receptor to allow the hiv antigen into the target t-cell.
medicare proposes revised clinical trial policy
in 2006, researchers in canada reported that statins act against sepsis, a dangerous blood infection, and a 2005 study found the death rate was 64 percent lower in pneumonia patients who had been taking statins.
according to the report, about 1.9 million of the 7.6  million stays were for patients who were hospitalized primarily because of a  mental health or substance abuse problem.
the findings, from a survey of 1,662 practicing physicians conducted in late 2003 and 2004, also show that drug and device manufacturers pick and choose which doctors to form the strongest ties with.
doq-it u will provide lessons in assessment, planning and implementation methodologies that will be disease and population specific, incorporating clinical decision support and evidence-based medicine guidelines.
supporters hope it is adopted  nationwide.
the research team compared the cardiovascular health over one year of  more than 18,000 patients aged over 50 with osteoarthritis.
“identifying the bacteria and reducing its spread in hospitals is crucial to improving patient outcomes, and these findings underscore the need to control these infections.”
through previous research, donath and his colleagues learned that a substance called interleukin-1 beta was a factor in the demise of these cells in people with type 2 diabetes.
“on the other hand, voltaren carries the same risk as the harmful cox-2 inhibitors bextra and vioxx, which have been taken off the market.
madjid pointed out that the implications of the research were even more important with a looming flu pandemic when a much higher percentage of the population could be expected to catch the illness.
in the other 5.7 million stays, patients were admitted for another condition but they also were diagnosed as having a mental health or substance abuse disorder.
research spending on disability is inadequate.
many physicians believe that elevated blood pressure following a stroke is  necessary to keep oxygenated blood at the site of the blockage.
because the symptoms are  less obvious, women often wait too long to get treatment.
hepagam b is the first product of its kind (an immune globulin product) approved for this purpose.
however, the body has its limits,  and some of these patients took 300 times the daily recommended dose of  niacin.”
the decree also  allows fda to require recall or shutdown in the event of future violations and  provides for damages of $5,000 per day and $1,000 per violation, up to a  maximum of $5 million per year, if the defendants fail to comply with its terms.
they also observed an increase in  oxidative lesions in the mouse dna.
over the past few years, hospital bugs have become increasingly resistant to common antibiotics, striking two million patients and claiming 100,000 lives annually.
in addition, mosser oversees the management teams responsible for procurement services, contracting and supplier management, product management, technology management and planning, inventory management and supply distribution services at all health system campuses.
the merged expertise  combined with sterilmed’s broad market presence will further strengthen  the breadth of services provided, including industry leading technical  capabilities and showcase repair facilities.
“it doesn’t go the whole way, but  it’s good enough for today,” said john mcdonough, executive  director of health care for all, an advocacy group.
the goal is to develop a noninvasive blood test for the disease  and then bring it to market so other physicians can use it, said geisinger  staff scientist glenn s. gerhard, md.
people who claim they cannot afford coverage under the new system could apply for a waiver.
getting sunburned can increase the risk of both melanoma and non-melanoma skin cancers.
all patients were under age 18.
“the term ‘dengue hemorrhagic fever’ puts undue emphasis on bleeding,” he added, noting that plasma leakage and shock can occur without it.
“i think  all through my career, what the medical system tried to teach people is that  when you have a virus or influenza, don’t come in because there is  nothing we can do,” poland said.
officials traced the melamine to two chinese plants, which have been supplying american distributors since last summer.
the products  are illegal because they are not produced according to the required current  good manufacturing practice (cgmp) and many also lack required fda approval.
anywhere hand sanitizing spray helps industry professionals prevent spread of infection clorox’s professional products division extends the clorox brand’s health and wellness efforts beyond surfaces to hand hygiene with the launch of clorox anywhere hand sanitizing spray, representing the company’s first entry into the personal care category.
currently, the standard method  to detect carriage of mrsa is by routine culture whereby results can take  several days.
their findings also showed that travelers who acquire a second dengue  infection are more at risk for severe cases of dengue, although some patients  had severe symptoms when infected during their first trip to a dengue-endemic  country.
study shows hope for early diagnosis of alzheimer's research by faculty and staff at rowan university, glassboro, nj; the university of pennsylvania school of medicine; and drexel university may lead to better diagnosis of early-stage alzheimer’s disease.
for  more informationclick here or click here.
the foundation estimates that roughly 25 million children 17  and under are obese or overweight, nearly a third of the 74 million in that age  group, according to census bureau data and a 2006 study published in the  journal of the american medical association.
budget builder provides members with list pricing information for more than 17,000 equipment items and over 1,500 suppliers.
vendormate’s services are uniquely suited to satisfy both internal policies and government mandates including hipaa, stark law and deficit reduction act.
under terms of the agreement, filed in u.s. district court in birmingham, al, scrushy agreed to give up $77.5 million in gains and pay a $3.5 million penalty.
although the level of antibodies seen in the remaining individuals did not reach that level, current scientific information on other influenza vaccines suggests that less than optimal antibody levels may still have the potential to help reduce disease severity and influenza-related hospitalizations and deaths.
suicide attempts accounted for  nearly 179,000 hospital stays.
but, this compares with 13 g/dl, the maximum level recommended by  the national kidney foundation, which dr. coyne says is about to revise its  guidelines.
the centers for medicare & medicaid services (cms) issued a proposed  rule that takes steps to improve the accuracy of medicare’s payment under  the acute care hospital inpatient prospective payment system (ipps), while  providing additional incentives for hospitals to engage in quality improvement  efforts.
professor sue wray, said, “our research shows overweight women are at considerably higher risk of having to undergo an emergency caesarean section birth and find labor a more difficult experience than normal weight women.
human rights watch urged beijing for full transparency on the removal of body organs from executed prisoners.
with new ethics policies in place and the 2008 budget fight starting,  many in the agency had hoped that the worst was behind them.
the only screening method that has been rigorously evaluated is old-fashioned x-ray film mammograms, but it is likely to be replaced by something, or some combination of things, whose benefits and risks are largely unknown.
each applicant will be qualified and screened to  determine career interests, job skills and location preferences.
at least 27 other states have already passed  similar laws, nearly all of them in the past four years, according to the  american medical association.
what we have proven is that microfiber technology is highly effective in disinfecting surfaces while the use of a color-coded cleaning system greatly reduces the risk of cross transmission.”
april 4, 2007 states revising organ-donation law; critics fear measure may not go far enough to protect donors $500 million pledged to fight childhood obesity rfid resource center launched; service provides knowledgebase for healthcare supply chain hibcc & partners healthcare collaborate on patient safety standard10 charged in $5 million medicare fraud study suggests some drug resistance to influenza b medications amerinet announces agreement with skytron for medical supplies this week, at the second global consultation on transplantation the world health organization (who) presented countries and other stakeholders with a blueprint for updated global guiding principles on cell, tissue and organ donation and transplantation.
the canadian embassy in mexico city issued an alert about dengue after five canadians were sickened in puerto vallarta earlier this year.
registering a profile with hl7 gives the profile credibility and approval that it has met a minimum set of guidelines of what a profile should contain.
china also has  been withholding virus samples from infected people since april 2006 for  unknown reasons, but its h5n1 case count is up to date at who.
the second portion is a variable  sum based on the percentage of nationwide medicare beneficiaries who live in  the state, the proportion of the state’s medicare beneficiaries to the  total state population, and the proportion of the state’s medicare  beneficiary population who live in rural areas.
hhas that submit the required quality data would receive payments based on the proposed full home health market basket update of 2.9 percent for cy 2008.
with the support of fda, the u.s. national institutes of health and other government agencies, sanofi pasteur and other manufacturers are working to develop a next generation of influenza vaccines for enhanced immune responses at lower doses, using technologies intended to boost the immune response.
a viral culture also usually collects a fluid sample that is sent to a laboratory.
the rats were then given one of two  common blood pressure lowering drugs or, for the control group, a saline  solution.
during an average of 6.1 years of follow-up, 334 individuals developed mild cognitive impairment, including 160 amnestic cases and 174 non-amnestic cases.
the company has improved its software since the study was conducted, cascella added.
plan bids for 2007 were 10 percent lower than in 2006, as a result of intense competition among plans to attract and retain enrollees and plans’ expectations to further increase use of inexpensive generic drugs, rather than more costly brand-name equivalents.
a 2003 study showed that 49 percent of patients suffered at least one medical error in the two months after leaving the hospital, often because the outside doctors didn’t know what was done in the hospital, or what was left to do.
for-profit dialysis centres may be over-treating anemia
the agencies are taking certain actions out of an abundance of caution.
the u.s. food and drug administration (fda) is alerting consumers to possible serious health risks from eating olives that may be contaminated with a deadly bacterium,clostridium botulinum.
fda licenses first biologic product to prevent hepatitis b  reinfection in liver transplant patients the u.s. food and drug administration (fda) announced the approval  of hepagam b for the prevention of hepatitis b reinfection in certain liver  transplant patients.
this new catalog segments sterilization products & services by sterilization process (steam, eo gas, gas plasma, peracetic acid, dry heat and chemical vapor).
(miami herald) use of certain common antiviral drugs during a recent influenza b epidemic in japan showed the development of viruses with partial resistance to the drugs, according to a study in the april 4 issue ofjama.
the study’s lead author, dr. joshua j. fenton of the university of california, davis, emphasized that women should continue to have mammograms.
it provides web-based performance measurement and benchmarking, real-time surveillance and best practices to help improve quality and reduce costs.
and  the two approved drugs without the experimental one also stopped the cancer  from spreading.
in an accompanying editorial, ban mishu allos, md, and william schaffner, md, of vanderbilt university school of medicine, noted that adults account for most new cases of hbv infection in the united states, and that current recommendations based on such risk factors as sexual activity and intravenous drug use have resulted in meager vaccination rates.
illinois gives doctors a 72-hour window to safely apologize after they learn about the cause of a medical mishap.
the federal government estimates that the disease affects 2 to 5 percent of americans, while another 10 to 20 percent of the population has fat in their liver, but no inflammation or liver damage.
(the wall street journal)
the second phase involves development of a data capture and  online benchmarking tool for use by practicing supply chain managers.
to show that the extra segment enlarges with age, the researchers  engineered mice to carry a version of the human huntingtin gene with an  inserted segment, one large enough to cause huntington’s disease in  humans.
if the drug and device industry can  influence cardiologists, they can likely influence the prescribing practices of  other doctors,” said lead researcher and co-author eric campbell, ph.d.,  an associate professor of medicine at the institute for health policy at  massachusetts general hospital and harvard medical school.
“this data shows the relative ease and high incidence of capnometer cannula dislodgement compared to the new bioacoustic sensor,” the researchers commented.
experts on childhood obesity welcomed the foundation’s plans.
“we observed associations in two subgroups, an association between induced abortion and progesterone receptor–negative breast cancer [cancer that does not respond to the hormone progesterone] and an inverse association between spontaneous abortion before the age of 20 years and breast cancer incidence,” they continue.
“‘green corner’ provides a valuable resource for healthcare professionals seeking anecdotes about how their peers in the hospital industry are tackling important community environmental issues, both simple and complex,” said gina pugliese, rn, vice president of the premier safety institute.
new research shows that flu is a trigger of heart attacks doctors need to take concerted action to ensure that people who are at  risk of heart disease receive the influenza vaccine every autumn, according to  the authors of a new report published in theeuropean heart journal.
there is limited space available for  this free provider only offering, so those interested in participating should  contact harla adams at 817-842-2331 or hadams@nihcl.com.
“five years from now this problem will have to be cured, or the competitiveness of the united states will be dramatically affected,” said j. randall macdonald, senior vice president for human resources at i.b.m.
there was no indication of whether the physicians followed up on their  stated intention to prescribe more gabapentin, he said.
the new site also complements the safety institute’s free,  electronic newsletter, “green link,” that highlights the latest  news on “green” healthcare practices and purchasing.
medicare announces measure specifications for the physician quality reporting initiative the centers for medicare and medicaid services (cms) announced the posting of detailed specifications for the 74 measures included in the 2007 physician quality reporting initiative (pqri).
the disease is asymptomatic in its early stages and many people don’t know they have it initially.
to see the “live” procedure on the internet visit http://www.gettingbackontrack.com and click on the web cast link on the right side of the home page.
the new levels would  have graduated payment levels between the proposed therapy thresholds to reduce  incentives to inappropriately target higher thresholds.
as president, ebert “will focus on continued implementation of the amerinet strategic business plan adopted in june 2006,” he told healthcare purchasing news in a prepared statement.
in addition, “green corner” expands the premier environmentally preferable purchasing (epp) program’s public suite of offerings, which currently includes electronic tools to support critical environmental efforts such as mercury pollution prevention and computer recycling.
a big part of the problem is that women often don’t experience a heart attack the same way men do.
over time, more women are developing multiple sclerosis (ms) than  men, according to research that will be presented at the american academy of  neurology’s 59th annual meeting in boston, april 28 – may 5, 2007.
“it’s surprising that we found what  we did with such a small sample.”
“the healthcare supply chain benchmarking and performance  improvements metrics will not only enable organizations to determine the  best performer, it will also determine best known practices and capabilities  that have yet to be adopted by the majority of the industry,” explained  vicki smith-daniels, professor of supply chain management, w.p. carey school of  business, arizona state university.
new prostate cancer test may detect more tumors
the guidelines reference the international diabetes federation (idf) cut-off points for waist circumference, given that these measures better reflect the ethnic diversity of canada.
voluntary donations remain far below demand  in china, partly due to cultural biases against organ removal before burial.
what we have proven is that microfiber technology is  highly effective in disinfecting surfaces while the use of a color-coded  cleaning system greatly reduces the risk of cross transmission.”
the model indicated that 2,940 patients would ultimately go on to develop colorectal cancer.
the addition of xactimed’s solutions with the medassets net revenue systems’ portfolio will offer healthcare providers an integrated suite of technologies and services to improve accuracy in their revenue cycle processes, improve accounts receivable days outstanding, increase charge capture, speed collections and improve compliance.
new  england journal of medicine.
disability in the form of limited  activities and restricted participation in social life is not an unavoidable  result of injury and chronic disease.
arcoxia is a sister to vioxx, which  merck withdrew in 2004 after a study showed that it also increased the risks of  heart attacks and strokes.
coronary artery calcium, a form of arterial plaque, is a predictor of later heart disease.
for one, they faced formidable opposition from the pharmaceutical and health insurance industries, two of the most powerful lobbying forces on capitol hill.
any company wishing to market a product containing trimethobenzamide in suppository form must now obtain an approved new drug application prior to marketing.
under the medical device user fee program, industry covers a  portion of the costs of fda’s pre-market review program through a variety  of fees.
acs is  pressing congress to boost funding for the national breast and cervical cancer  early detection program, run by the us centers for disease control and  prevention.
“we  certainly had a lot of patients and extra help to deal with the  situation,” hill said.
in addition to non-elective medical admissions for  critical illness among chronically ill elders, the growth rate in elective  surgical procedures requiring intensive care unit admission, such as bypass  surgery, is growing fastest among this age group,” said amber e. barnato,  m.d., m.p.h., m.sc., assistant professor, department of medicine, university of  pittsburgh school of medicine.
so when leesar  received notice that its new repackaging facility had passed inspection and  then received its license with its four figured license number the excitement  was that we could now free up our pharmacists to work on the patient floors  with the doctors and nurses on medication management and by doing so insure the  highest quality of patient care to our community.
mainegeneral health automates business processes with oracle oracle announced that mainegeneral health, the parent corporation of a  network of an acute care hospital, physician practices, long-term nursing care,  homecare, behavioral health, and assisted living and retirement communities,  has recently deployed oracle’s peoplesoft enterprise financial management  8.9 to automate and manage business processes, as well as enhance operational  efficiency.
using idf criteria, over 50% of canadians are considered  abdominally obese.
“the problem is that people don’t recognize diabetes early enough,  so by the time of diagnosis, about half of people with diabetes already have a  complication that took years to develop.”
fda sometimes orders post-approval studies to address remaining issues such as the product's performance once it becomes more widely available or is used over a longer period of time.
additional new features provide better  access to data and statistics, recent news, tools and resources, and new  publications.
“doctors want women to realize that simple steps can make a world of difference in terms of your heart health,” said mieres.
the higher the level, the greater the risk of  diabetes complications, which can include heart disease, nerve damage, kidney  failure and loss of vision.
the authors  admitted they were operating off incomplete information on many subjects, which  made their task difficult.
new virus discovered; 3 organ transplant recipients in australia succumb to infection
if  dangerous lesions are spotted, a second, more invasive procedure is required.
it is unclear who will clearly benefit  from aggressive treatment and who are likely to be able to live a normal life  if the tumors are simply followed and removed only if they begin to cause  symptoms.
these are also important guidelines for health professionals and policy-makers to help them address canada’s increasing prevalence rates.
the measure awaits the signatures of the governors of arkansas, indiana,  iowa and new mexico.
the nonprofit national association of  children’s hospitals and related institutions, with 208 member hospitals  in the u.s. and overseas, is leading an ambitious effort to eradicate  bloodstream infections, the most severe infectious threat in pediatric icus.
in egypt, the  ministry of health and population announced two new human h5n1 cases that were  confirmed by the egyptian central public health laboratory and u.s. naval  medical research unit no.3 in cairo.
merck sells arcoxia in 63 countries, and the company underwrote an extensive safety testing program that involved 34,000 arthritis patients.
the study may lead to an earlier diagnosis,  and therefore earlier treatment and improved quality of life, for people at the  earliest stages of the disease.
the american college of surgeons (acs) issued a statement in 2005 supporting the use of blunt-tip suture needles where clinically appropriate.
“by utilizing medassets’ group purchasing contracts and technology, physicians and other non-acute care providers will save money on purchases for common medical supplies, office supplies, business services, pharmaceuticals, and capital equipment,” said gary green, senior vice president, medassets supply chain systems.
the disease is spread though airborne droplets  that are transmitted when an infected person coughs or sneezes.
the results showed that there was no difference in the total number of heart attacks and strokes among participants at low risk of cardiovascular disease, irrespective of their drug treatment.
“while financial and political pressures to make health care  more efficient are leading to increased hospital occupancy and greater patient  turnover, patients and policymakers are quite rightly demanding that health  delivery systems be made safer,” said joel weissman, phd, of the mgh  institute of health policy, the report’s lead author.
hl7’s emergency care special interest group (sig) developed the emergency care functional profile for emergency department information systems to develop an open and objective standard for the development, refinement, and evaluation of information systems employed in the ed.
this change results from slightly higher projected income and slightly lower projected expenditures than shown in last year’s report.
disclosure would be required at the time of referral.
the revised policy will be effective with the publication of the final ncd.
his study, he said, “does raise concerns that  technology is causing harm without clear benefit.”
april 18, 2007 fda approves first u.s. vaccine for humans against the avian influenza virus h5n1 uga study suggests that lowering blood pressure following stroke may reduce damage new research shows that flu is a trigger of heart attacks for-profit dialysis centres may be over-treating anemia long island chapter for central service honors
democratic leaders had low expectations for  victory.
the va software flags questionable doses and potential interactions.
independent healthcare research leader announces new name: ecri institute
and despite all those gym  memberships, baby boomers tend to be less physically active than their parents  and grandparents, their daily routines often dominated by desk jobs and the  drive to and from work.
the proposed rule recommends changes to the way medicare pays for hospital capital-related costs based on an analysis that showed substantial positive margins experienced by some hospitals.
their  diagnostic accuracy rate was 82 to 85 percent using the eegs (e.g., it matched  evaluations conducted at penn 82 to 85 percent of the time).
the clinics and their  operators have been difficult for investigators to track down because they  often switch names, owners and locations, closing quickly as investigators  approach.
hhs issues report to congress on e-prescribing
these standards, required by the  medicare modernization act of 2003, would help cut both medication errors and  health care costs.
they may also have higher expectations, making them more likely to notice and complain about aches and pains that earlier generations would have accepted as just part of getting older.
the findings  of the three groups, published simultaneously today in the online edition of  the journalscience, boost to at least 10 the number of genetic variants  confidently associated with increased susceptibility to type 2 diabetes, a  disease that affects more than 200 million people worldwide.
additional features, such as surveys, utilization tracking, and continuing medical education/continuing education unit (cme/ceu) offering/issuing capabilities will also be included in the near future.
as a result of that investigation, nih director elias a. zerhouni in 2005 banned all such consulting by nih employees.
it’s time for the fda to set the record  straight.”
beyond that are a host of factors,  including smoking in the household, attending day care and breast-feeding for  the first three months of life….
skytron products  include: portable, fixed and recessed lighting that is ideal for any size and  type of health care facility.
it also poses serious risk for kidney patients undergoing  regular dialysis treatments.
different epoetin dosing patterns suggest that large for-profit chain facilities used larger dose adjustments and targeted higher hematocrit levels.”
the report appears in the april 13 morbidity and mortality weekly report at this link http://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/.
vha introduces a new tool to improve capital budgeting efficiency for hospitals the hospital capital budgeting process is often a time-consuming venture that requires department managers to conduct their own research, estimate costs and manually place data into excel spreadsheets to submit to the hospital’s chief financial officer.
a two- and three-dimensional computer model of the gastrointestinal tract  is then generated, potentially revealing cancerous and precancerous lesions.
the revised model law is the latest in a series of initiatives by transplant  advocates to boost the number of organs available for the more than 95,000  americans on waiting lists.
doq-it u is an interactive, web-based tool designed to provide solo and small-to-medium sized physician practices with the education for successful hit adoption, including lessons on culture change, vendor selection and operational redesign, along with clinical processes.
the next step, of course, will be to reinforce to the public the message that they don't need antibiotics to treat every ailment.”
the repackaging operation is now moving into its operational phase and registering all medications it will repackage with the state.
the hopkins research team, led by edward mcfarland, m.d., director of the  division of adult orthopedics at the johns hopkins hospital, analyzed anonymous  patient information provided by the maryland health services cost review  commission, the state’s hospital rate-regulator.
a team from the ministry of health, who and the pasteur institute there are following up with the girl’s contacts and conducting awareness-raising activities in the area.
such detection systems, approved by the food  and drug administration in 1998, are sold by several companies, including  hologic of bedford, ma; icad of nashua, nh; and kodak.
“severe disease can be present in  patients who do not fulfill all four dhf criteria.”
the researchers used data from the us renal data system and found 159,522 adult medicare-eligible, end-stage renal disease patients who were receiving hemodialysis at various centres during november and december 2004.
jani-king approves healthcare cleaning system after more than one year of research and testing, jani-king international has partnered with rubbermaid to officially implement a color-coded microfiber cleaning and disinfecting system into its standard environmental services program.
“when women go to have an angiogram, there have been situations where  doctors don’t see any blockages, even though the patient has symptoms and  a bad stress test,” she said.
the hope is that it can be developed into a viable way of relieving  blood bank shortages.
cms issues guidance on hospital emergency services requirements the centers for medicare & medicaid services (cms) issued guidance clarifying the responsibility of hospitals provide emergency services if they participate in the medicare program.
the researchers identified a variant with reduced drug sensitivity in one (1.4 percent) of the 74 children who had received oseltamivir, and seven (1.7 percent) of the 422 influenza b viruses isolated from untreated patients were found to have reduced sensitivity to zanamivir, oseltamivir, or both.
jani-king, a commercial cleaning franchise company, worked with rubbermaid, a provider of high efficiency environmental services equipment, in order to adapt best practices, procedures and techniques for cleaning and disinfecting in a healthcare environment.
even women with health insurance are falling behind in their mammograms.
regulators are particularly  concerned about the very small hospitals that focus on only a few kinds of  surgery but perform operations that frequently require an overnight stay.
diagnostix, a subsidiary of amerinet inc., announced that 10 healthcare providers, representing a unique range of healthcare services from across the county, have chosen accuprice, to monitor and resolve pricing discrepancies in their pharmacy programs.
the centers for medicare & medicaid services (cms) issued a final rule  that will reduce beneficiary out-of-pocket costs, improve the accuracy of  medicare’s payments for certain durable medical equipment, prosthetics,  orthotics, and supplies (dmepos), help combat supplier fraud, and ensure  beneficiary access to high quality dmepos items and services through a new  competitive bidding program.
a big part of  the problem is that women often don’t experience a heart attack the same  way men do.
in 2008, the competitive bidding program will  operate in competitive bidding areas (cbas) within 10 of the largest  metropolitan statistical areas (msas), excluding the new york, los angeles, and  chicago msas and will apply to 10 of the top dmepos product categories based on  criteria outlined in the final rule.
women are also more likely than men to take prescription  drugs.
the decrease was evident only in women who were 50 years of age or older and was more evident in cancers that were estrogen-receptor (er)-positive than in those that were er-negative.
“when doctors go in to look, there are no kinks, so they can’t be stented,” goldberg said.
the stat team is called if the patient’s condition  is serious or potentially life-threatening, and it has helped the hospital  achieve a 65 percent decrease in cardiac arrests outside of the critical care  unit and emergency department.
one in 10 were considered to be at high risk of a heart attack or stroke, some of whom also took low dose aspirin (70 to 100 mg a day).
as a result, the agency shifted responsibility for  tracking these studies from its pre-market staff to its post-market staff and  set up a new electronic system for them to do so.
on april 25, who is scheduled to hold another meeting in geneva to focus on ways to increase developing-country access to potential pandemic vaccines.
one in 10 of those tests eventually proved abnormal enough to warrant action, more testing, a new diagnosis or a change in treatment.
“we are working intensively, both the federal and state governments, on (these) three sites that we want to keep under control, so that it doesn’t become a risk for tourists,” said pablo kuri, head of mexico’s national center for epidemiology and disease control.
rheumatoid arthritis drug may help treat type 2 diabetes a drug designed to treat juvenile rheumatoid arthritis may also be helpful for managing type 2 diabetes, new research suggests.
oracle’s peoplesoft applications provide  mainegeneral health with enterprise-wide visibility into financial data and  expanded reporting capabilities that will help the organization close financial  books much faster.
hepagam b is manufactured by  cangene corp. of winnipeg, canada.
partnering with the company 454 life sciences, the columbia university team applied a high-throughput technology that can sequence hundreds of thousands of bits of dna simultaneously.
patients on statins  also had a lower risk of dying from influenza or pneumonia, the researchers  reported monday.
virtual colonoscopy involves a combination of sophisticated x-rays and ct scans of the abdomen after it has been pumped with air.
though infections caused by  these bacteria are rarely fatal, carriers of either bug are at greater risk for  more dangerous infections.
fda to test imported additives for melamine concerned that a wide variety of chinese vegetable protein products may be  contaminated with the harmful compound melamine, the food and drug  administration said yesterday that it will begin testing batches of six  imported ingredients used in pet foods and livestock feed, as well as additives  to human food.
the organization selected and implemented peoplesoft  applications for financial management, accounts payable, asset management,  project costing, purchasing, inventory management and eprocurement.
participants taking ibuprofen also developed congestive heart failure more often than those on the cox inhibitor.
new technology, like  computer-aided detection, digital mammography, magnetic resonance imaging and  ultrasound, can be so sensitive that doctors have trouble deciding which  findings are worrisome.
however, the researchers emphasized that their predictions of disease risk need  to be interpreted with caution because the diabetes group in their sample was  “enriched” with people who had affected siblings and because the  healthy group excluded people who had impaired glucose tolerance or impaired  fasting glucose.
“mrsa can be spread in the healthcare environment and community and can cause serious infections,” said lead investigator leonard mermel, md, medical director, department of epidemiology & infection control, rhode island hospital.
parseghian as  “kathi o’shaughnessy tech of the year” hhs issues report to congress on e-prescribing fda seizes all medical products from nj device manufacturer for  significant manufacturing violations u.s. food and drug administration (fda) investigators and u.s. marshals  today seized all implantable medical devices from shelhigh inc., union, nj,  after finding significant deficiencies in the company’s manufacturing  processes.
medicare recently terminated its agreement with the facility involved in the texas case, west texas hospital, a 14-bed hospital in abilene that performed procedures ranging from plastic surgery to complex spine operations.
“what you’re talking about is a potential public health disaster” if arcoxia is approved for sale, dr. david graham, an f.d.a. safety officer, told the panel.
in a paper in the may issue of emerging infectious diseases, an international team of researchers report the first ever large-scale sequencing of western genomes of the deadly avian influenza virus, h5n1.
low colorectal cancer screening rates are a concern because unlike  screening for many other cancers, colorectal cancer screening can find colon  growths called polyps before they ever become cancerous, preventing the disease  entirely.
the intergovernmental panel on  climate change, made up of the world’s leading climate scientists,  predicted in march that global warming and climate change would cause an  upsurge in dengue.
the reduction of hormone-replacement therapy could have caused a decreased incidence of breast cancer by direct hormonal effects on the growth of occult breast cancers, a change that would have affected predominantly er-positive tumors.
while infections have always been a risk for hospital patients of every age, experts say that children may be at even higher risk than adults.
over the past few years, hospital bugs have  become increasingly resistant to common antibiotics, striking two million  patients and claiming 100,000 lives annually.
the ohio valley hospital consortium is an independent organization of community healthcare providers, working collaboratively to improve the health care delivery system in their communities.
the main causes of  infant death in poor southern regions included premature and low-weight births;  sudden infant death syndrome, which is linked to parental smoking and unsafe  sleeping positions as well as unknown causes; congenital defects; and, among  poor black teenage mothers in particular, deaths from accidents and disease.
cms anticipates  a small number of additional specification changes, which may expand the  applicability of the measures to additional eligible professionals.
although the overall absolute risk is relatively small, the statin group’s risk is dramatically lower,” says rajesh gupta m.d., the study’s lead author, who was a senior medical resident at hopkins when the study was conducted.
“we are working intensively, both the federal and  state governments, on (these) three sites that we want to keep under control,  so that it doesn’t become a risk for tourists,” said pablo kuri,  head of mexico’s national center for epidemiology and disease control.
“we certainly had a lot of patients and extra help to deal with the situation,” hill said.
the most serious cases can lead to shock and death.
the researchers also reported that after women stop taking hrt, their  risk of ovarian cancer returns to that found in never-users of hrt.
in  contrast, 23% of insured and 49% of uninsured men are avoiding care because of  cost.
gupta says it remains unclear why or how statins work this way, “but  the consistency of the findings with laboratory studies adds a lot of credence  to the idea that statins are doing something substantial to reduce risk.”
tuesday’s indictment showed what investigators call a typical pattern, in which medicare patients were given kickbacks to indicate they were given treatment at the clinics.
“by identifying this genetic link, it should be possible to improve our understanding of why some people are more obese, with all the associated implications such as increased risk of diabetes and heart disease.
“minorities, women who live in low-income areas, elderly women [over 70] and those who live in rural areas are significantly less likely to get comprehensive care compared to those women who don’t meet those
this provision keeps many from obtaining scooters and wheelchairs that would  allow them to navigate reliably and safely outside the home.
“mrsa can be spread in the healthcare  environment and community and can cause serious infections,” said lead  investigator leonard mermel, md, medical director, department of epidemiology  & infection control, rhode island hospital.
electronic medical records eliminate those  headaches.
the national institutes of health (nih) has solicited proposals to  study on a broader scale how to treat skin and soft tissue infections,  including abscesses, and whether antibiotics are necessary.
mdufma ii would foster the  development of innovative in vitro diagnostic tests by issuing new industry  guidance on important emerging issues and reviewing some low-risk devices to  determine whether any of them could be exempted from the need for product  review.
the final purchase price is subject to certain post-closing  adjustments, including the final calculation of working capital for carescience  as of march 31, 2007.
a study commissioned by the department of health and human services last fall reported that one-quarter of american physicians use some sort of electronic record-keeping in their practices.
while this kind of infection is exceedingly rare, universal vaccination against the virus would likely have prevented both cases, according to the authors of the report and an accompanying commentary.
after a few months, when the mice had aged, the scientists analyzed the  gene and found that the segment had expanded.
melamine, a nitrogen-based compound used in products such as countertops, glues and fertilizers, was identified this month as the cause of fatal kidney failure in an unknown number of dogs and cats, leading to the recall of more than 100 brands of pet food.
“patients tend to clamor for antibiotics, even in situations where the evidence is clear that they are ineffective, such as with the common cold or the flu,” said dr. everett.
the rapid diagnostic tests have been around for several years and are widely used, with some insurance plans covering them.
“these findings suggest that moderate-dose statin use reduces the risk of influenza/pneumonia death and strongly suggest that statins reduce the risk of copd death.”
acapulco, a city of 700,000, has documented 549 cases of classic and hemorrhagic dengue in the first two months of 2007, up from just 86 for the same period last year.
this discovery, along with further results expected from the wellcome trust  case control consortium later this year, will open up a wealth of new avenues  to understand and treat common diseases.”
vibrio infections, which are often related to the consumption of raw shellfish like oysters, have increased to the highest level since foodnet began conducting surveillance.
electronic medical records make it easier.
the hospital has since closed.
join ches and industry participants in an engaging webinar series  about how a pdu can benefit hospitals and suppliers, as well as the industry as  a whole, and learn how to participate in efforts to accelerate adoption of a  pdu for health care.
for cy 2008, cms proposes to evaluate home  health care quality by continuing to rely on the submission of oasis  assessments.
in the prospective, multi-center trial, which was funded by 3m health care, clinical nasal swabs were collected from various patient groups at 11 u.s. sites, including inpatients screened for mrsa through active surveillance, inpatients and outpatients requiring hemodialysis, inpatients and outpatients with hiv-infection, pre-op cardiac surgery patients and patients admitted from long-term elder care.
the plan is expected to be approved by the commonwealth health insurance  connector authority on thursday.
the analysis showed qrng continued to rise among msm; 38 percent of msm gonorrhea cases were qrng in the first half of 2006, compared to 1.6 percent in 2001.
our current one-size-fits-all approach will  soon give way to more individualized strategies based on each person's unique  genetic make-up.”
it advises clinicians to discuss the benefits and harms of screening with the patient, as well as each woman’s individual cancer risk and preference about screening.
generally, companies must submit interim post-approval study status reports every six months for the first two years of the study and annually thereafter until the final report has been submitted.
“staph aureus causes a wide range of infections, from mild skin infections to life-threatening blood stream infections,” said angela dillow, phd, global business manager, 3m medical diagnostics.
study co-author j.  pekka nuorti, a medical epidemiologist at the cdc’s national center for  immunization and respiratory diseases, estimates that the pcv7 vaccine prevents  two million cases of otitis media in children under two years of age in the  u.s. annually.
the current research simply  does not support the routine practice of prescribing antibiotics following  incision and drainage of simple abscesses.”
for  example, on behalf of hundreds of hospitals and the communities they serve, the  epp program recently secured purchasing agreements with dell and gateway for  computers and electronic devices that address significant environmental  concerns regarding the manufacturing, use and end-of-life disposal and/or  recycling of electronics.
for a fact sheet summary see  this link.
the item must be  furnished as part of their professional services.
the results showed that there was no difference in the total number of  heart attacks and strokes among participants at low risk of cardiovascular  disease, irrespective of their drug treatment.
(source: the wall street journal) to read the original article see this link.
amerinet announces agreement with skytron for medical supplies amerinet announces its agreement with skytron, division of the kmw group  for medical supplies.
but pneumococcal bacteria cause  only 30 to 55 percent of such infections; other classes of bacteria cause the  rest.
in addition, by accelerating the  payment process, the institution can take advantage of rapid pay discounts,  which were difficult to take advantage of with the organization’s legacy  system.
in his address to the more than 2,700 healthcare professionals  attending the medassets healthcare business summit, medassets’ chairman,  president and ceo john bardis shared the company’s plans to expand its  revenue cycle management suite through acquisition of xactimed and emphasized  that the company’s diligent and deliberate growth is driven by the need  to solve the challenges healthcare providers are facing as they work to improve  the quality of care and efficiency in our nation’s healthcare  system.
in the first national survey to gauge the predictors and depth of relationships between industry and practicing physicians, 94 percent of doctors report that they have at least one type of relationship with the drug industry, mostly in the form of receiving food in the workplace or prescription samples.
the next step in the mcgill research will be to investigate other  proteins in which vangl1 plays a role, to further pin down its mode of action,  gros said.
hire heroes will identify veterans with disabilities who are seeking career placement services by working with transition centers and va rehabilitation centers.
it is given to  infants in four doses: at two, four, six and 12 to 15 months.
the merger is part of sterilmed and the scope exchange’s strategy to help healthcare providers conserve their resources by extending the life of medical devices, instruments, and equipment.
in the estimate, medicare’s hospital insurance trust fund is  projected to be exhausted in 2019, one year later than estimated in last year's  report.
to read the press release see this link.
the cdc says  there’s no drug to treat hemorrhagic dengue, but proper treatment,  including rest, fluids and pain relief, can reduce death rates to about 1  percent.
there has been documented evidence of the emergence of oseltamivir-resistant type a viruses, but similar information on influenza b viruses has been limited.
the foundation estimates that roughly 25 million children 17 and under are obese or overweight, nearly a third of the 74 million in that age group, according to census bureau data and a 2006 study published in the journal of the american medical association.
consequently, surveillance  of possible outbreaks across the country is enhanced, doctors said.
a u.s. national institutes of health consensus panel issued similar recommendations on comprehensive surgery for ovarian cancer more than a decade ago.
according to nationwide 2003 medicare figures, 6,700 people had shoulder joints replaced that year, compared to 106,887 hip replacements and 199,195 total knee replacements.
jani-king has already implemented this new cleaning and disinfecting standard  into its healthcare certificate program.
earlier drugs under development were linked to lymphoma  and liver damage.
organ banks have also been aggressively promoting a controversial practice that allows surgeons to take organs from patients who are not brain dead, more than doubling the number of such donations in the past three years.
torres was office manager and patient recruiter at coral way from october 2004 through march 2005, when the clinic closed.
“humans carry chickens between many of  the countries in our study, often transporting them across great distances.
the advantage of using a modified eeg to detect these early changes is that it is non-invasive, simple to do, can be repeated when necessary and can be done in a physician’s office.
however, 11 percent had at least one manifestation of severe dengue disease, and a total of 23 percent required hospitalization due to dengue-related symptoms.
the more stringent admission screening methods for methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus (mrsa) and vancomycin-resistant enterococcus (vre) go well beyond standard hospital practices, where tests are only ordered after symptoms or early signs of infection appear.
lehigh valley hospital and health network selects patient care technology systems’ automatic or tracking software patient care technology systems (pcts) announced that lehigh valley hospital and health network (lvhhn) has selected amelior ortracker automatic tracking software to improve the efficiency of surgical care throughout its perioperative departments in all three hospitals within lvhhn.
his long time experience both in managing of and in  marketing to sterile processing departments means he has unique insight into  our customers and their needs,” explained steven basile, vice president  sales.
“through health careers  foundations’ connections within the healthcare industry, the hire heroes  program will help thousands of our veterans with disabilities throughout our  nation,” said clayton shepherd, chief executive officer, health careers  foundation.
“it suggests that there could be large cost savings associated with aggressive efforts to prevent patients from becoming infected with these bacteria.”
when investigators visited the office and monitored its  operation they found all staff members followed standard infection control  practices.
ccr5 antagonists have raised safety concerns in the past.
virtual colonoscopies were only slightly less efficient than the  traditional method, achieving an almost 38 percent reduction when polyps of all  sizes were considered.
since hillary rodham clinton’s effort to overhaul the nation’s medical system was rejected in 1994, most big employers have stayed out of the debate on healthcare reform.
“once  susceptibility genes are identified, researchers then can use this information  to develop better approaches to detecting, treating and preventing  disease.”
a total of 16 customers received the medassets net revenue systems best  practice award.
semistented aortic tricuspid valve; shelhigh bioconduit stentless valve; shelhigh nr900a tricuspid valve; shelhigh mitrofast mitral valve repair system; shelhigh biomitral tricuspid valve; and shelhigh injectable pulmonic valve system.
“there are important benefits to screening mammography, but we  believe the decision to be screened should be based on an informed conversation  between a patient and her physician,” said health policy expert douglas  k. owens, md, ms, a researcher with the veterans affairs palo alto health care  system and a professor of medicine at the stanford university school of  medicine, who chaired the committee that developed the guidelines.
after  their review, the group concluded that screening mammography for women in this  age group likely provides a modest reduction in breast cancer mortality, but,  as with any screening intervention, it also comes with the risk of potential  harms.
geisinger has collected more than 600 liver tissue and  blood samples donated from patients who have undergone bariatric weight loss  surgery.
the most commonly used nsaids are ibuprofen (advil), naproxen (aleve), and diclofenac (voltaren).
m cubed medical serves the non-acute care market including physician practices, clinics and ambulatory surgery centers.
newborns who are too young to be fully vaccinated against the disease are more vulnerable to severe pertussis and face the possibility of serious complications and even death.
the care to be  delivered is designed specifically for patients who need functional  restoration/rehabilitation and medical management services.
boomers are healthier in some  important ways, they are much less likely to smoke, for example, but large  surveys are consistently finding that they tend to describe themselves as less  hale and hearty than their forebears did at the same age.
the principles put forward by who underscore that the person, whether  recipient of an organ or a donor, must be the main concern both as patient and  as human being; that commercial exploitation of organs denies equitable access  and can be harmful to both donors and recipients; that organ donation from live  donors poses numerous health risks which can be avoided by promoting donation  from deceased donors; and that quality, safety, efficacy and transparency are  essential if society is to reap the benefits transplantation can offer as a  therapy.
his view was echoed by gerald l. andriole jr., chief of urologic surgery at washington university school of medicine, who said that “if the data hold up, this marker will be a substantial improvement over psa.”
recommended options for treating gonorrhea are now limited to a single class of antibiotics known as cephalosporins.
but silicon valley technology companies that do not have or need retiree coverage are wary of new taxpayer-financed subsidies.
“this was a population where only a small minority were receiving flu  vaccines or statin drugs, so this enabled us to see what happened naturally in  the absence of these medicines,” said madjid.
five states in the bottom 10 now were in the bottom 10 then.
it is only if the bacteria enter other parts of the body, through a  surgical incision, for example, that they can result in a serious infection.
the centers for medicare & medicaid services (cms) issued a proposed rule that takes steps to improve the accuracy of medicare’s payment under the acute care hospital inpatient prospective payment system (ipps), while providing additional incentives for hospitals to engage in quality improvement efforts.
the equipment is expensive, costing $50,000 to  $175,000, but
the product was imported by wilbur-ellis, an importer and distributor of agricultural products.
the problem, goff said, is that the diagnosis is usually  made at the time of surgery.
most adolescents and adults are not diagnosed with pertussis because they frequently have milder cases of the disease and physicians still perceive pertussis as a childhood disease.
more alarming is that a deadly hemorrhagic form of the disease, which adds internal and external bleeding to the symptoms, is becoming more common.
“live donations are not without risk, whether the organ is paid for or not.
fda based its approval on the company's clinical data in a study of hbv-infected persons undergoing full liver transplants, which showed a reduction in the virus recurrence rate from 86 percent to about 13 percent.
these products have been marketed under various names, including tigan, tebamide, t-gen, trimazide, and trimethobenz.
doctors also worried about lawsuits if they were not using it and  missed a cancer.
the va is now rolling out “my health e vet,” a feature  that allows patients to create a portal to their own charts, where they can  record measurements they take at home; list over-the-counter medicines they  use; and offer comments about their health.
medicare provides funding for health insurance counseling in all 50 states medicare will provide funding for health insurance counseling in every state to help beneficiaries get the most from the health program for elderly and disabled persons, the centers for medicare & medicaid services (cms) announced.
there is no cure for dengue infection, but management of the disease’s effects can prevent the worst outcomes.
effective april 1, 2007, through march 30, 2010, this contract provides cost-saving opportunities to amerinet members on asset recovery, new and used equipment sales, repair/service/extended warranties, internal exchange program (through a customized extra-net system), inventory and appraisal services, and equipment planning.
cdc had recommended fluoroquinolones no longer be used to treat gonorrhea in msm when this threshold was crossed in earlier years.
“we are very pleased to have these outstanding consorta shareholders  and affiliates as new members of healthtrust,” said jim fitzgerald,  president of healthtrust.
michael payne, outreach coordinator for the western institute of food safety at the university of california at davis's school of veterinary medicine, said he thinks that there is little risk of people becoming ill by eating pork from pigs that ate melamine-laced feed.
many scientists believe that cancer spread starts after the primary tumour has reached maturity.
hepagam b is the first product of its kind (an immune  globulin product) approved for this purpose.
because of continued rapid growth in expenditures for the program as a whole, program costs financed by general revenues, rather than by “dedicated revenues,” are projected to exceed 45 percent in 2013.
“an incomplete pregnancy may not  result in sufficient differentiation to counter the high levels of pregnancy  hormones that may foster proliferation,” the rapid growth and division  typical of cancer cells, the authors write.
in turnabout, infant deaths climb in south
medicare’s inpatient rates for  operating expenses will increase by 3.3 percent in fy 2008 for those hospitals  that report quality data to cms. overall, the proposed rule is estimated  to increase payments to more than 3,500 acute care hospitals by $3.3 billion.
the only screening method that has been rigorously  evaluated is old-fashioned x-ray film mammograms, but it is likely to be  replaced by something, or some combination of things, whose benefits and risks  are largely unknown.
likewise,  adult smoking rates were also basically unchanged from 2004 to 2005.
for 19 years, he was the director of cpd at boston’s beth israel deaconess medical center and prior to that he was the director of spd and faulkner hospital.
the study is published in the current issue of thejournal of the american medical association (jama).
“if it’s a single hospital or  two hospitals, it could certainly paralyze the hospital,” he said.
13 people have so far died of bird flu in egypt.
while the control group showed damage in 50 percent of the brain, those receiving the drugs hydralazine and enalapril showed 30 percent damage.
the diagnostic manual used by doctors says that anyone who has at least five such symptoms for as little as two weeks may be clinically depressed.
the new hospital practice was introduced march 1 after a  study conducted at hopkins last year showed that more frequent screening  detected many more carriers of the germs before their presence led to infection  or the germs spread to others.
northeast medical center in concord, n.c., launched its  program, called the stabilization teaching administration and transport (stat
key areas include programs and services such as clinical  consulting, clinical preference products and data analysis and management  tools.”
for more information click
the authors concluded that the case underscored the need for meticulous  maintenance of blood-borne pathogen infection control for all patients in  dental settings.
they tried the new test on 30 men with psa readings above 2.5 and in  whom biopsies found no cancer.
the cdc web site address is www.cdc.gov.
broadlink is for broadlane  clients only and is not owned by suppliers.
the research suggests obesity impairs the ability of the uterus to contract sufficiently in order to dilate the cervix and deliver the baby.
“community hospitals play an important role in the treatment of  people with mental health and substance abuse disorders,” said ahrq  director carolyn m. clancy, m.d.  “this report gives healthcare  policymakers an in-depth look at the impact of mental health and substance  abuse care on the healthcare system.”
he will also be a vital asset to our customers as they seek clinical support and education.”
amerinet inc. announces its agreement with vendormate for vendor credentialing and compliance monitoring services.
in a new us study, scientists suggest that large for-profit kidney dialysis chains in the us give patients more anti-anemia drugs and aim for higher hemoglobin levels than nonprofit centres.
announced the entry of a consent decree of permanent injunction against  pharmafab inc., its subsidiary, pfab lp, and two company officials, mark  tengler, pharmafab’s president, and russ mcmahen, pfab’s vice  president of scientific affairs, to stop the illegal manufacture and  distribution of prescription and over-the-counter drug products.
“clinicians who mainly focus on bleeding...may miss the most important conditions that require hospitalization and treatment.”
the case report, by john t. redd, md, mph, and colleagues from the centers for disease control and prevention (cdc) and the new mexico department of health, describes the index patient as a sexually inactive 60-year-old woman with no history of intravenous drug use or other potential exposures to hbv who had undergone multiple tooth extractions on a single office visit.
today’s letter reiterates medicare’s long-standing requirement  that hospitals have appropriate policies and procedures in place to address  individuals’ emergency care needs 24 hours per day, 7 days per week.
but this was not true of those  at high risk.
on average, these hospitals had a  40 percent lower rate of patient-safety incidents when compared with the  poorest-performing hospitals.
as announced on april 26, swine known to have been fed adulterated  (contaminated) product will not be approved to enter the food supply.
the researchers, including michael b. first of  columbia university, the editor of the authoritative diagnostic manual, based  their findings on a national survey of 8,098 people.
thirteen states and the  district also cover uninsured people with tuberculosis.
premier’s performance suite is a single source for integrating  quality and safety, labor management, and supply chain efficiency.
the  affordability gap,” by elizabeth m. patchias and judith g. waxman of the  national women’s law center finds that women are at a disadvantage  because they have greater healthcare needs and lower incomes than men.
“to  do this right means we’re walking a tight rope,” kingsdale said.
officials are trying  to determine whether the chemical’s presence in the hogs represents a  threat to humans.
carescience's physician-accepted, clinical expertise complements premier's  process improvement focus and unparalleled database of hospital comparative  data.
(because the animal feed in question was adulterated, usda cannot rule out the possibility that food produced from animals fed this product could also be adulterated.)
“these principles reflect the importance of balancing stakeholders’ urgent need for useful information with the need for due diligence to ensure that the information provided is valid, reliable, and useful.”
two  years ago, a study of 2,600 patients discharged from university hospitals found  that 41 percent had test results pending when they left.
alliance members can request  catalogs through their novation portfolio executive or access an electronic  copy of the catalog through the member portal on marketplace@novation.
spsmedical is the largest sterilizer testing laboratory in n. america and sells a comprehensive line of sterility assurance products including biological indicators, chemical indicators, integrators, bowie-dick test packs, packaging and recordkeeping products.
although these findings did not meet statistical significance,  they suggest that the health consequences of hormone therapy may vary by time  from menopause.
“we need to encourage more folks to get screened, period,” he  said.
these risks did not appear to be significant in the pfizer  studies, but according to media reports, the fda reviewers are concerned about  modest increases in liver damage.
what this study really did was look across a broad geographic area of the u.s. it gave us a good sense of what is happening in our country,” she said.
because this result falls within the first seven years of the  projection period (2007-2013), the trustees have issued a determination of  “excess general revenue medicare funding.”
all  four patients recovered after treatment in hospital emergency rooms for the  adverse effects.
more money is also needed for cancer screening programs that help people  with low incomes or no insurance.
“this was a population where only a small minority were receiving flu vaccines or statin drugs, so this enabled us to see what happened naturally in the absence of these medicines,” said madjid.
five pilot sites operating in  eight states tested initial standards to determine if they were ready for  widespread adoption.
va takes the lead in paperless care statin drugs lower respiratory death risk proportion of americans who are severely obese rising faster than those who are moderately obese women under-treated for ovarian cancer ovarian cancer is one of the most lethal cancers women can get, yet one out of three u.s. patients diagnosed with the disease doesn’t get the full, recommended surgical treatment, a new study finds.
the higher the level, the greater the risk of diabetes complications, which can include heart disease, nerve damage, kidney failure and loss of vision.
medicare, medicaid, and private health plans employ  outdated policies for covering assistive technologies and services.
premier data management services has already processed several million new  and updated product descriptions received in the past few months from  supplyline.
since 1999, the department of veterans affairs’ 155 hospitals, 881  clinics, 135 nursing homes and 45 rehabilitation centers have been linked by a  universal medical records network.
its new effort intends to capitalize  on and enhance efforts by the food industry and school districts and  governments to address the problem, dr. lavizzo-mourey said.
some hospitals say apologies help defuse patient anger and stave off lawsuits.
according to john w. strong, consorta’s president and chief executive officer, during the first five years of the partnership, consorta forecasts that the combination will provide shareholders and members with $535 million in cost savings, via price reductions and broader coverage afforded by healthtrust’s portfolio.
“by adding these honorable veterans to the healthcare  industry, they will be able to continue to serve and to make a  difference.”
toxicology studies on laboratory rodents have long suggested that it takes high doses of the chemical to cause health problems, typically in the bladder and kidneys, payne said.
one of the teens also had disrupted heart rhythms.
in minnesota, she could qualify  with an income of $45,650, according to the report.
“parents shouldn’t think that just  because their kids are getting vaccinated that they won’t get otitis  media,” said richard rosenfeld, director of otolaryngology at long island  college hospital in new york city.
(in the case of the va, a doctor in washington can easily find a blood test from a patient treated five years ago at the san francisco veterans hospital.)
according to the who, dengue hemorrhagic fever (dhf) is characterized by  fever, low platelet count, clinical evidence of leaking capillaries, and  spontaneous bleeding or fragile blood vessels.
yet only now are people growing more aware of them, said poland.
this last group is especially worrisome to  physicians.
doctors say she is in a ‘stable’ condition.
fda would continue to waive  the fee for all first-time pre-market approval applications for businesses with  $30 million or less in annual sales or receipts.
the guidance does not apply to critical access hospitals (cahs), which are small, rural hospitals that are subject to separate regulation.
“we’re seeing some very powerful evidence all pointing to parallel findings,” said mark d. hayward, a sociologist at the university of texas at austin.
the recommendation for measuring the waist circumference of all adults is the result of the latest research indicating that fat in the abdominal area is linked to an increased risk of cardiovascular disease and diabetes.
the  study is published in the april 12 issue of thenew england journal of  medicine.
doq-it u will provide lessons in assessment, planning and implementation  methodologies that will be disease and population specific, incorporating  clinical decision support and evidence-based medicine guidelines.
if left untreated, people infected with pertussis can spread the disease for several weeks.
several snack food  producers are making changes in their packaging and ingredients, and three  soft-drink companies said they would no longer supply sweetened drinks to  school cafeterias and vending machines.
the vaccine will be manufactured at sanofi pasteur's swiftwater, pa, facility.
the researchers found that: dosing of epoetin varied significantly depending on organizational status and ownership of the kidney dialysis centre.
a report released thursday by the centers for disease control and prevention (cdc) shows a leveling of cases for some foodborne infections after a period of decline.
officemax was also recognized as this year’s strategic sponsor  of the healthcare business summit.
cdc is urging health departments to maintain or  develop capacity to perform cultures for neisseria gonorrhoeae and to assess  any gonorrhea treatment failures for possible resistance.
she  knew that our profession was getting more technical with all the advancements  in medicine and that we would as technicians have to step up to the plate or be  left out.
speculating on their findings, prof tsai and her colleagues suggested that perhaps degenerative brain diseases like alzheimer’s do not wipe out memories, but make them inaccessible in some way.
they found that current hrt users were on  average 20% more likely to develop and die from ovarian cancer than those who  had never received hrt.
with celebrex, the fda didn’t follow the recommendations of its advisory  committee to substantially restrict the drug’s use.
the agencies expect the investigation will continue to find more places where product may have been distributed.
for example, a hospital with a $10 million overall capital budget can save between $3 million and $3.5 million by using the cost-cutting information contained in budget builder.”
boston-based promutual group, which insures 18,000 healthcare  clients in the northeast, warns against apologies that admit guilt.
novaplus products are identical to their brand-name equivalents and offer hospitals quality products for the best price and the benefits of standardization.
for example, a  pregnant woman in a family of three must have a household income of less than  $22,128 to qualify for medicaid in wyoming.
for 19 years, he was the director of cpd at  boston’s beth israel deaconess medical center and prior to that he was  the director of spd and faulkner hospital.
the cancer typically shows few symptoms until it  is diagnosed in its advanced stages.
more than 3,000 cases of infections caused  by hantaviruses have been reported so far in russian cities and towns,  including many that are within a few hundred miles of moscow, such as voronezh  and lipetsk.
china alters organ transplant laws china published new rules governing human organ transplants in its latest effort to clean up a business critics say has little regard for medical ethics.
lilly is forthcoming with all relevant clinical data on all of our products.”
sharp-tip suture  needles are the leading source of penetrating injuries to surgical personnel,  causing 51-to-71 percent of these incidents.
the centers for disease control and prevention (cdc) no longer  recommends antibiotics known as fluoroquinolones (ciprofloxacin, ofloxacin, and  levofloxacin) as a treatment for gonorrhea in the united states.
nih spokesman john  burklow said: “we welcome the additional review; however, we are  confident in the rigor of our process.”
the addition of  xactimed’s solutions with the medassets net revenue systems’  portfolio will offer healthcare providers an integrated suite of technologies  and services to improve accuracy in their revenue cycle processes, improve  accounts receivable days outstanding, increase charge capture, speed  collections and improve compliance.
the cped report says community efforts are needed to make our environment more conducive to good food and exercise choices.
a spokesman for levinson said he was not at liberty to say why the oig had  renewed its interest in the cases.
medassets supply chain systems and m cubed medical join forces to help decrease costs for physician practices medassets supply chain systems announced an exclusive affiliate agreement with m cubed medical, a newly formed specialty group purchasing organization headquartered in webster city, ia.
an opinion issued by the american college of obstetricians and gynecologists in 2002 stressed the importance of referral to a gynecologic oncologist if ovarian cancer is suspected.
“this additional survival time could increase the effectiveness of anti-influenza drugs, providing a longer time to reduce mortality risks.”
the  system, known as computer-aided detection, or cad, did not find more breast  cancer, researchers are reporting today.
cms will review all the public comments and suggestions received and incorporate them into a final ncd.
by assembling additional genetic sequences, the researchers determined that the  new virus is related to, but distinct from, known strains of lymphocytic  choreomeningitis virus (lcmv), which has been implicated in a small number of  cases of disease transmission by organ transplantation.
a total of 16,118 participants (15 percent) reported having a history of induced abortion and 21,753 (21 percent) had a history of spontaneous abortion.
the investigators could only speculate that there might have been a  lapse in clean-up procedures after the source patient, leaving an area  contaminated with her blood.
until now, though, prevention efforts have focused largely on adults, and measures that are known to prevent infection in children aren’t always consistently used, experts say.
one-fourth got care from a doctor who did only one ovarian cancer surgery annually.
the proportion of americans who are severely obese, about 100 pounds or more overweight, increased by 50 percent from 2000 to 2005, twice as fast as the growth seen in moderate obesity, according to a rand corporation study issued today.
experts on childhood obesity welcomed  the foundation’s plans.
the payment reforms include a proposal to restructure the  inpatient diagnosis related groups (drgs) to account more fully for the  severity of the patient’s condition.
but, in fact, cardiovascular disease is the number  one killer of both men and women in the united states, according to the  national institutes of health.
touro infirmary selects broadlane for supply chain services broadlane announced that touro infirmary, new orleans’ only  community based, not-for-profit, faith-based hospital, has selected broadlane  to provide an array of supply chain services under an exclusive  agreement.
among these  younger women, the risk of breast cancer varies greatly, from less than 1  percent for a 40-year-old woman with no risk factors to 6 percent for a  49-year-old woman with multiple risk factors, which include family history of  breast cancer, older age at the birth of her first child and younger age at the  onset of menstruation.
“the trend seems to be  that people are not as healthy as they approach retirement as they were in  older generations.
if there is a suspicious spot on a mammogram, women will want to have a biopsy  to rule out invasive cancer, said robert a. cascella, the company’s  president and chief operating officer.
it also includes up-to-date pricing that factor in the contract discounts and tiered pricing structures offered through novation, vha’s contracting services company.
it could become commercially available in  2008.
the next stage, said dr. massagué, is to find women whose breast cancer relies on these four genes.
in the first experiment they took human breast cancer  cells and switched off all four genes before inserting them into mice.
smoking causes cancers of the lung, larynx, mouth and throat, esophagus, and bladder, and contributes to several other types of cancer.
the study suggests that clinically severe obesity, instead of being a rare pathological condition among genetically vulnerable individuals, is an integral part of the population’s weight distribution.
many hiv drugs fight the virus from inside infected white blood cells.
in addition, the single-use design of the ultra-pro ii needle guide reduces the risk of cross-contamination and increases patient throughput.
this new three-year agreement creates a partnership of shared responsibility to control costs and discover new revenue streams.
but the 2000 document said that its figures had already been checked for error.
both appear in the may 1 issue ofthe journal of infectious diseases, now available online.
pickhardt and his colleagues discussed their findings in the june 1 issue  of the journalcancer.
“the f.d.a. continues to  explore the concerns raised recently regarding information provided to the  f.d.a. on zyprexa’s safety,” dr. mitchell mathis, a deputy director  in the psychiatry division of the agency’s center for drug evaluation and  research, said.
“so we are especially dependent on philanthropic support.”
a mutation causes cells to lose their orientation, so the tissue in  which it is expressed fails to develop properly, causing gaps that leave nerve  tissue exposed.
patients at some hospitals may find the staff resorting to what someone might do at home in a crisis: call 911 for an ambulance.
“done improperly, and i think a lot get  done improperly, the sensitivity falls dramatically,” poland said.
(because  the animal feed in question was adulterated, usda cannot rule out the  possibility that food produced from animals fed this product could also be  adulterated.)
statins may regulate the immune response to  infection or fight microbes directly, powe suspects.
in the paper, researchers say the  primary concern voiced by participants was that the “utilization,  organization and management of intensive care services in the united states was  not optimal.”
“this program gives guys a chance to start a new life and really  opens paths for them,” callahan said.
“at this point we’re just speculating on avenues of research that could be pursued.”
it calls for limits on junk food marketing in schools, encouraging more nutrition information in restaurants, stronger physical education requirements in schools, and more investment in parks, bike lanes, and sidewalks.
the federal register notice which outlines the agency’s order to manufacturers and distributors, also concludes all outstanding issues for drugs containing trimethobenzamide, under the drug efficacy study implementation program (desi).
in two studies released in january at the 2007 society for technology in  anesthesiology annual meeting, researchers monitored ten postoperative adult  icu and six pediatric pacu patients in separate studies with masimo’s arm  technology as well as a nasal cannula connected to a capnometer.
people with a  bmi of 25 to 29 are considered overweight, while a bmi of 30 or more classifies  a person as being obese.
rowan university electrical and computer engineering associate professor dr. robi polikar conducted the research with dr. christopher clark, associate professor of neurology, associate director of the nih-sponsored alzheimer's disease center at penn and director of the penn memory center, and with dr. john kounios, a drexel psychology professor.
“this study indicates there may be little reason to wait.”
(the new york times) to read the full article click here.
prostate cancer, the most common malignancy in men, is one of  the more perplexing areas of medicine.
the final rule will be published in the federal register on april 10.
the  stimulated mice’s brain cells had sprouted new dendrites and produced new  synapses, in effect reversing the degeneration.
the merged expertise combined with sterilmed’s broad market presence will further strengthen the breadth of services provided, including industry leading technical capabilities and showcase repair facilities.
said study leader manoj k. mittal, m.d., a fellow in emergency  medicine at the children’s hospital of philadelphia.
the medications, all statins, seem to lower the risk of a potentially lethal blood infection known as sepsis in patients on kidney dialysis.
leslie a. kirwan, the massachusetts secretary of administration and finance, who is chairwoman of the authority’s board, said the support of advocates like mcdonough was earned in part by action by gov. deval l. patrick, who agreed to waive fees that more than 10,000 poor families were paying for their children to be covered by medicaid.
it is a very small number, but this is the first time that it has been pinned down.”
“it’s surprising that we found what we did with such a small sample.”
premier, cardinal health team up to help hospitals identify safer  products through use of standardized terminology hospitals will have an easier time selecting safer  products through an “industry first” effort by the premier  healthcare alliance and cardinal health to standardize medical product  terminology in online catalogs.
resistant cases were seen across the u.s. in the first half of 2006 (in 25 of the 26 cities in the analysis), and sharp increases occurred from 2004 to 2006 in several cities, including philadelphia (from 1.2 percent to 26.6 percent of gonorrhea cases) and miami (from 2.1 percent to 15.3 percent).
all four patients recovered after treatment in hospital emergency rooms for the adverse effects.
by attending the meeting you will have the opportunity to hear from provider executives from baylor healthcare system, community health network, excela health, sentara healthcare, st. david’s, iowa health system, north mississippi health services, northwestern memorial hospital and universal health services inc.
antiviral doses are limited each flu season and prescribing them indiscriminately could build a resistance to the drugs in the community, doctors say.
medicare provides funding for health insurance counseling in all  50 states medicare will provide funding for health insurance counseling in every  state to help beneficiaries get the most from the health program for elderly  and disabled persons, the centers for medicare & medicaid services (cms)  announced.
mcfarland says most patients who are candidates  for total shoulder replacement surgery are “at the end of their  rope” trying to manage chronic pain and disability with drugs.
“because there’s virtually no risk associated with having such small polyps, 90 percent of folks don’t need an invasive and expensive colonoscopy to screen for colon cancer,” explained lead researcher dr. perry j. pickhardt, an associate professor in the school of medicine and public health and radiologist at the university of wisconsin in madison.
it is becoming more and more crucial that health care providers  understand the clinical spectrum of dengue and its diagnosis.
the rfid resource center can be accessed from the home page of the hibcc web site at this link.
the vegetable proteins are  used in bread, pizza, baby food and many vegetarian dishes.
more than sixty hospitals have already successfully used the tool to activate hundreds of contracts negotiated by healthtrust purchasing group with medtronic, boston scientific corporation, and st. jude medical.
with the coming of spring, lyudmial kirillov, the regional  epidemiologist in lipetsk, is predicting a new outbreak as the little snow that  fell this winter melts and hibernating, and virus-carrying, mice awaken.
“there is a long-standing controversy about whether you  should even treat elevated blood pressure in stroke victims,” said lead  author susan fagan, professor of clinical and administrative pharmacy at the  uga college of pharmacy and the medical college of georgia.
acs report: progress against cancer at risk; early detection,  prevention need more attention the united states has made great strides against cancer recently, with  overall deaths from the disease declining for 2 years in a row.
in 2004 mgh embarked on a project to define and develop a safer system for the administration of medication to its patients.
after identifying promising leads through this approach, the  three research teams jointly replicated their findings using smaller, more  focused sets of genetic markers in additional groups totaling more than 22,000  people from finland, poland, sweden, the united kingdom and the united states.
it also identified many men, 14 out of 18, who had cancer  but whose psas were normal.
little information about china’s lucrative transplant business is publicly available.
contracts will be awarded to a sufficient number of winning bidders in each cba to ensure access and service to high quality dmepos items.
the third phase moves this project to initial data collection and model validation activities where a sample of targeted organizations will provide data for validating the metric definitions and testing the use of the benchmarking and analysis tool.
a spokesman for levinson said he was not at liberty to say why the oig had renewed its interest in the cases.
april 6, 2007 bird flu kills indonesian teen, toll at 73 new urgency in debating healthcare
the proposed rule would require physician-owned hospitals to disclose such ownership to patients and provide the names of the physician owners upon request.
“in order to perform more uniform surveillance and research, including vaccine trials, studies are urgently needed to establish new and more robust definitions for severe dengue.”
people who earn more than $50,001 would not be given a cap on insurance costs.
einhorn says studies show that intense, early treatment with improved diet, daily exercise and medications when needed can lower blood-sugar levels and prevent or at least delay complications.
“that’s a valuable finding,” he said.
on march 27, after a two-day meeting in jakarta,  indonesia, among officials from who and 20 nations that have had animal and  human h5n1 outbreaks, who agreed not to share virus samples with vaccine makers  without approval from the virus-collecting country, and the government of  indonesia agreed to resume sharing h5n1 virus samples.
cdc is urging health departments to maintain or develop capacity to perform cultures for neisseria gonorrhoeae and to assess any gonorrhea treatment failures for possible resistance.
in next year’s budget, passed amid  discovery of contamination problems in spinach, tomatoes and lettuce, congress  has voted the fda a $10 million increase to improve food safety, dewaal said.
another potential contribution this study makes is  the possibility that these same genes are involved in fuelling metastasis of  other cancers, or at least that similar rules are involved.
the latest members to sign up to utilize accuprice include: columbia  memorial hospital, astoria, or; highlands hospital, connellsville, pa; medina  general hospital, medina, oh; moses, ludington hospital, ticonderoga, ny; north  philadelphia health system, philadelphia, pa; platte valley medical center,  brighton, co; samaritan health services, corvallis, or; st. barnabas hospital,  bronx, ny; st. joseph’s community health, hillsboro, wi; and virginia  mason medical center,seattle, wa. april 24, 2007 human bird flu deaths reported in egypt, cambodia; china, indonesia still not sharing virus samples with who overcrowded hospitals may risk adverse events on busiest days drug company sales visits influenced doctors, study finds neither abortion nor miscarriage associated with breast cancer risk one in four hospital patients is admitted with a mental health or  substance abuse disorder scrushy settles sec civil claims ghx develops collaborative contract commitment tool
at the time, the  sec sought more than $200 million in penalties, and scrushy faced the  possibility of years in prison.
another girl, a 15-year-old female from cairo governorate,  developed symptoms march 30, was admitted to the hospital april 5 and died  april 10.
m cubed medical has developed a strategy that congregates the collective economic power of physicians across the country to bring the same improved cost and efficiencies already seen in physician-owned ambulatory surgery centers to the supply side of the business while maintaining a fair profit margin for manufacturers.
it estimates the cost of treating complications at $22.9 billion in 2006, said university of chicago health economist willard manning, who contributed to the analysis.
in 1940, the ratio of women to men with ms in the united states was  approximately two to one.
“no obvious mechanisms can be provided for these subgroup findings; thus, chance has to be considered as a possible explanation.”
ships are intended to serve beneficiaries who want information, counseling, and assistance beyond what is available through other cms channels, including 1-800-medicare andwww.medicare.gov.
if any evidence surfaces to indicate there is harm to humans, the appropriate action will be taken.
both appear in the may 1 issue ofthe  journal of infectious diseases, now available online.
this needle guidance system is  designed to increase the productivity of ultrasound-guided procedures including  tissue biopsy, fluid aspirations and catheter placement.
the program start date is june 1.
a two- and three-dimensional computer model of the gastrointestinal tract is then generated, potentially revealing cancerous and precancerous lesions.
the agency said that imported corn gluten, corn meal, soy protein and rice bran will also be tested.
in addition, fda would conduct a pilot program under which the agency would review simultaneously a company's 510(k) and waiver applications under the clinical laboratory improvement amendments, the law that governs quality standards for all laboratory testing.
“the explosion in the use of bariatric surgery has made no  noticeable dent in the trend of morbid obesity,” sturm said.
a person exposed to one strain may develop immunity to that strain, but  subsequent exposure to another strain makes it more likely the person will  develop the hemorrhagic form.
under the act, the donor card trumps the living will, which triggered objections from some bioethicists and doctors who care for critically ill patients.
“i don’t  know if you can ever be prepared for this type of violence,” scott hill,  chief executive officer of montgomery regional hospital, said monday night.
through premier’s supply  chain advisor electronic product catalog and cardinal health supplyline, a  large product comparison and purchasing database, premier members will have a  standard set of nomenclature for product attributes to make it easier to search  for products that won’t cause allergic reactions or those that are  potentially toxic.
for who’s timeline of events for avian influenza see this link.
in response, the commission sent states substitute language that  calls for family members or others to be consulted in such situations to try to  determine what the donor would have wanted.
and last year was also bad for dengue: mexico documented 27,000  infections overall, including 4,477 hemorrhagic cases and 20 deaths, compared  with 1,781 cases overall in 2001.
influenza surveillance program internationally and in the united states, and  will bolster influenza research in key areas, including understanding how the  virus causes disease and how the human immune system responds to infection with  the virus.
the  medications, all statins, seem to lower the risk of a potentially lethal blood  infection known as sepsis in patients on kidney dialysis.
rare case of dental patient-to-patient hepatitis b virus transmission recorded researchers have documented a case of hepatitis b virus (hbv) transmission between two patients at a dentist’s office in the united states.
“cardiology is a highly influential specialty within the medical profession.
studies also show that  treating an infection can add nearly $40,000 in additional hospital costs.
it’s very disturbing.”
“lilly always cooperates fully with requests for information from the f.d.a.,” he said, “and that includes any requests regarding information on zyprexa.
“we have to be very careful that we don’t make people think that we don’t have their best interests in mind and are just going to use them to get their body parts.”
for more information seethis link.
it also poses serious risk for kidney patients undergoing regular dialysis treatments.
healthmark industries company provides solutions for the sterile  processing profession including products designed to address the needs and  challenges related to the sterilization, decontamination, storage and  distribution of medical equipment and supplies.
the results appear in the april 2007 issue of thepediatric infectious disease journal.
these products are used to treat nausea and vomiting in adults  and children.
the hospital would be required to disclose how it would meet the medical needs of a patient who develops an emergency condition while no doctor is on site.
“it may have helped to limit spread of the virus.”
for more  information seethis link.
potential applications and benefits include: wound dressings that are soft and have comfortable stretch; knit-like stretchable gown sleeves and cuffs for use in protective and clean room apparel; hygiene side panels for diapers and adult incontinence garments that are less irritating and fit better; elastic bandages and low power wound care sleeves that may be less irritating than conventional materials; elastic protective covers that fit better, reducing the number of sizes needed; elastic interlinings that are resistant to deformation; and elastic composites that are versatile and stretchable.
but some facts are strikingly clear.
drug company sales visits influenced doctors, study finds almost half of sales visits by pharmaceutical company  representatives advocating the use of the drug gabapentin led to doctors  stating that they intended to increase their prescription of the drug or  recommend it to colleagues, according to an analysis of a survey completed by  the doctors shortly after the visits.
the goal was to cut bloodstream infections by 50%, to 1.5 infections per 1,000 catheter days.
for the promis conference, organizers attempted to identify problems  in the current u.s. critical care system as seen by all stakeholders, including  those from professional organizations, critical care and non-critical care  physicians, federal and private health insurers, federal and private funding  organizations, and the general public.
but the 2000 document said that its figures had  already been checked for error.
admission screening is already standard at hopkins for adults admitted to intensive care units.
to assess whether or  not this could have an effect on people with type 2 diabetes, the researchers  randomly assigned 36 people to receive a once-daily placebo injection and 34  people to receive once-daily injections of 100 milligrams of anakinra for 13  weeks.
rodriguez, arias, monteagudo, vega,  galdos and balladares were also accused of money laundering in alleged attempts  to hide the money from federal authorities.
if the findings are confirmed by further  analysis, the trend could force policymakers to rethink a host of expectations  and projections about the nation’s overall medical bill and the future of  social security and other retirement programs.
however, as prof tsai said: “to our knowledge, hdacs have not been used to treat alzheimer’s disease or dementia.
during russia’s  more typically frigid winters, scientists believe, hfrs-causing viruses die off  in the consistently below-zero temperatures.
cms has included in the final rule a number of provisions that will modify the rule’s impact on small suppliers.
formerly with the mgh institute of health policy, bendavid is now at the center for health policy at stanford university.
through previous  research, donath and his colleagues learned that a substance called  interleukin-1 beta was a factor in the demise of these cells in people with  type 2 diabetes.
the authors concluded that the case underscored the need for meticulous maintenance of blood-borne pathogen infection control for all patients in dental settings.
however, in the midst of the flu season when a specific community might be overrun by the illness, the tests might be impractical or a waste of money.
food  and drug administration officials were unusually harsh in their criticism of  the medicine.
it accounts for one in four cases in mexico, compared with one in 50 seven years ago, according to mexico’s public health department.
“this case is the 14th death from 34  cases of bird flu infection since the disease appeared in egypt in february  2006,” the statement said.
rowan chlebowski, md, phd, a principal investigator/oncologist at la biomed, and the only researcher to participate in the 2002 reports of the trial evaluating estrogen plus progestin (which led to the decrease in menopausal hormone therapy use in 2003) and the 2006-07 studies outlining the subsequent decrease in breast cancer, states: “while the cause of the reduction is not definitive, the sustained decrease in new breast cancer diagnosed in the u.s. is a remarkable event.
“we don’t envision this  replacing a neurologist,” polikar said.
lawyers who represent drug companies said the f.d.a. largely  depended on the companies to be honest about the side effects of their drugs.
in arizona, connecticut, idaho, maine and 11 other states, doctors can safely apologize to or commiserate with patients or their families about an undesirable or unexpected outcome, according to the ama.
the changes are  designed to make it easier for people to find health information and resources  quickly.
fda  will issue a preliminary public health notification to physicians and other  health care professionals and a preliminary advice for patients shortly with  more information; those documents will be posted to fda’s web site.
they looked at all  arthroplasties performed in maryland to alleviate osteoarthritis pain between  1994 and 2001, including details of 15, 414 hip surgeries, 34, 471 knee  operations and 625 shoulder procedures.
all people over 50 are encouraged to undergo a regular colonoscopy  once every 10 years, or either a barium enema or a flexible sigmoidoscopy (with  or without a yearly blood test) once every five years.
we saw the need to purchase capital equipment in bulk.
the broad dispersal of the different forms of the virus throughout  the different countries over a relatively short period of time points to the  possibility of human movement, rather than wild birds as the reason for the  quick spread of the h5n1.
furthermore, the panel identified  gaps in existing knowledge, and new research requirements needed to help  develop a greater understanding of weight and body shape and their link to  chronic diseases such as cardiovascular disease and diabetes.