- a child under age two years has a fever that lasts longer than 24 to 48 hours.
- there are other worrisome symptoms.
sometimes doctors advise you to use  both types of medicine.
sometimes doctors advise you to use both types of medicine.
is it increasing rapidly?
place ice packs in the armpits, behind the neck, and in the groin.
call your health  care provider if: call a doctor right away if: a baby less than 90 days old has a rectal temperature of 100.2f (37.9c) or  higher.
there are other symptoms that suggest an illness may need to be treated,  such as a sore throat, earache, or cough.
the environment should be comfortably cool.
the environment should be comfortably  cool.
the goal is to lower, not eliminate, the fever.
this is especially effective after medication is given -- otherwise the temperature might bounce right back up.
place ice packs in the  armpits, behind the neck, and in the groin.
does it go away and then come back again daily?
the following diagnostic tests may be performed: blood studies, such as a cbc or blood differential urinalysis
- don't use any medicine to reduce fever in children under three months of age without first contacting a physician.
ibuprofen is not approved for use under 6 months of age.
seek medical attention.
- there are other symptoms that suggest an illness may need to be treated, such as a sore throat, earache, or cough.
when trying to reduce a fever: do not bundle up someone who has the chills.
there are other worrisome symptoms.
if heat illness is causing the fever, medicines may not lower the body temperature and may even be harmful.
- you think you may have incorrectly dosed acetaminophen or ibuprofen.
- aspirin is very effective for treating fever in adults.
here are some guidelines for  taking medicine: acetaminophen and ibuprofen help reduce fever in children and adults.
take acetaminophen every 4-6 hours.
illustrated health encyclopedia - in depth reports - care guides - surgeries and procedures - a.d.a.m.
do you have alternating chills and fever?
did it develop suddenly?
k l m n o p r s t u v w y fever elevated temperature; hyperthermia; pyrexia home care: if the fever is mild and no other problems are present, no medical  treatment is required.
like aspirin, it helps fight inflammation at the source of the fever.
your doctor may ask questions such as.
don't use any medicine to reduce fever in children under three months of  age without first contacting a physician.
these cool the skin, but often make the situation worse by causing shivering, which raises the core body temperature.
like aspirin, it helps fight  inflammation at the source of the fever.
- did it occur within four to six hours after exposure to something that you might be allergic to?
illustrated health encyclopedia - in depth reports - care guides - surgeries and procedures - blackheads (comedones) - urinary tract infection - skin cancer, basal cell carcinoma - spreading - blackheads (comedones) close-up - basal cell carcinoma - face - allergies - arthritis - asthma - breast cancer - cancer - deafness - dermatology - diabetes - headaches - heartburn - heart disease - depression - ibs/crohn's disease - mental health - men's health - nutrition - senior health - stress - weight loss - women's health health topics a-z - health - health topics a-z - calorie count - nutrition database ©2012 about.com.
- do you have alternating chills and fever?
the goal is to lower, not  eliminate, the fever.
take ibuprofen every 6-8 hours.
this is  especially effective after medication is given -- otherwise the temperature  might bounce right back up.
you think you may have incorrectly dosed acetaminophen or ibuprofen.
take steps to lower a fever if you or your child is uncomfortable,  vomiting, dehydrated, or having difficulty sleeping.
- a fever lasts longer than 48 to 72 hours in older children and adults.
do not give  aspirin to children.
anyone has a fever over 105f (40.5c), unless it comes down readily with  treatment and the person is comfortable.
drink fluids and rest.
give fluids if the person is alert.
it works by turning down the brain's
a fever lasts longer than 48 to 72 hours in older children and adults.
- does the fever follow an up and down pattern (is it high, then lower, then high)?
a baby 6 to 12 months old has a fever of 103f (39.4c) or higher.
- does the temperature go up and down suddenly (spike) or does it change slowly?
how frequently does it alternate (days, hours)?
if someone has heat exhaustion or heat stroke, remove the person from the  heat source.
- do not use cold baths or alcohol rubs.
has the fever gone away?
- how frequently does it alternate (days, hours)?
aspirin is very effective for treating fever in adults.
a child under age two years has a fever that lasts longer than 24
your doctor may ask questions such  as.
the following diagnostic tests may be performed: - blood studies, such as a cbc or blood
it works by turning down the brain's thermostat.
- a lukewarm bath or sponge bath may help cool someone with a fever.
for example, one layer of lightweight clothing, and one lightweight  blanket to sleep.
- how many days did it take for the fever to go away?
- how long has the fever lasted?
- a baby 3 to 6 months old has a fever of 101f (38.3c) or higher.
- health - health topics a-z health topics a-z apply now, former about.com health's disease and condition content is reviewed by our medical review board - health topics a-z encyclopedia index injury disease nutrition poison symptoms surgery test special topic a b c d e f g h
call your health care provider if: call a doctor right away if: - a baby less than 90 days old has a rectal temperature of 100.2f (37.9c) or higher.
did it occur within four to six hours after exposure to something that you  might be allergic to?
do not use cold baths or alcohol rubs.
differential - urinalysis - sputum culture - spinal tap - x-ray of the chest thermometer temperature temperature measurement - a.d.a.m.
- take acetaminophen every 4-6 hours.
if someone has heat exhaustion or heat stroke, remove the person from the heat source.
the new york times company.
sponge the person with tepid water.
for example,irritability, confusion,  difficulty breathing, stiff neck, inability to move an arm or leg, or  first-time seizure.
what to expect at your health care provider's office: your doctor will perform a physical examination, which may include a  detailed examination of the skin, eyes, ears, nose, throat, neck, chest, and  abdomen to look for the cause of the fever.
how long has the fever lasted?
k l m n o p r s t u v w y fever overview treatment alternative names: elevated temperature; hyperthermia; pyrexia home care: if the fever is mild and no other problems are present, no medical treatment is required.
a baby 3 to 6 months old has a fever of 101f (38.3c) or higher.
- drink cool liquids, as tolerated.
a lukewarm bath or sponge bath may help cool someone with a fever.
about.com health's disease and condition content is reviewed by our medical  review board health topics a-z encyclopedia index injury disease  nutrition poison symptoms surgery test  special topic a b c d e f g h
treatment depends on the duration and cause of the fever, and on other accompanying symptoms.
if a child is playful and comfortable, drinking plenty of fluids, and able to sleep, fever treatment is not likely to help.
- acetaminophen and ibuprofen help reduce fever in children and adults.
take steps to lower a fever if you or your child is uncomfortable, vomiting, dehydrated, or having difficulty sleeping.
do not give aspirin to children.
treatment depends on the duration and cause of the fever, and on other  accompanying symptoms.
does the fever follow an up and down pattern (is it high, then lower, then  high)?
- does it go away and then come back again daily?
remove excess clothing or blankets.
- anyone has a fever over 105f (40.5c), unless it comes down readily with treatment and the person is comfortable.
when trying to reduce a fever: here are some guidelines for taking medicine: - do not bundle up someone who has the chills.
- a baby 6 to 12 months old has a fever of 103f (39.4c) or higher.
for example,irritability, confusion, difficulty breathing, stiff neck, inability to move an arm or leg, or first-time seizure.
- fever medicines come in different concentrations, so always check the instructions on the package.
what to expect at your health care provider's office: your doctor will perform a physical examination, which may include a detailed examination of the skin, eyes, ears, nose, throat, neck, chest, and abdomen to look for the cause of the fever.
fever medicines come in different concentrations, so always check the  instructions on the package.
if heat illness is causing the fever, medicines may not  lower the body temperature and may even be harmful.
drink cool liquids, as tolerated.
if the room is hot or stuffy, a fan may help.
these cool the skin, but often make  the situation worse by causing shivering, which raises the core body  temperature.
- did it develop suddenly?
does the temperature go up and down suddenly (spike) or does it change  slowly?
- remove excess clothing or blankets.
if a child is playful and  comfortable, drinking plenty of fluids, and able to sleep, fever treatment is  not likely to help.
for example, one layer of lightweight clothing, and one lightweight blanket to sleep.
how many days did it take for the fever to go away?
- has the fever gone away?