also, drinking plenty of water does more to relieve a cough than  medicine – but do see your doctor if the cough persists, or seems  particularly bad.
anti-nausea medications have risks and possible  complications.
if you’re getting  over-the-counter medicine from the chemist, you should ask the pharmacist all  the questions above.
research shows thatantihistamines  have almost no effect on children’s sleep patterns.
the doctor might also need to order some tests to find out what type of bacteria is causing your child’s infection.
also ask whether the medicine is safe for your child, how  long you should wait to visit your doctor if problems don’t go away, and  whether there’s any alcohol or aspirin in the ingredients.
the decision to use antibiotics depends on your doctor, and your child’s symptoms and medical history.
if you’re not sure what’s in a particular medicine, ask the  pharmacist or your child’s doctor.
decongestants many parents give their children decongestants to relieve cold and flu  symptoms, but there’s little evidence that these actually work.
if your child needs to take antibiotics, she shouldcomplete the entire course of antibiotics, even if she seems better after a few days.
you can also find more information in our article onpills, potions and tonics for sleep.
antihistamines can be given with any antibiotic, paracetamol (such as panadol), ibuprofen (such as nurofen), decongestants or cough suppressants.
in fact, coughing is actually a great way to clear mucus from airways, and helps prevent children from getting another infection.
the pediatric exclusivity provision - january 2001:
what to ask your doctor and pharmacist
status report to congress.
a-z health reference paracetamol what to ask your doctor and pharmacist paracetamol paracetamol is often used to relieve pain or to lower a child’s fever.
decongestants might cause unpleasant side effects like  grumpiness, confusion and sleepiness.
make sure you give your child the right amount for his weight.
ibuprofen is a safe alternative to paracetamol, but avoid it if your child is vomiting or has asthma.
aspirin is sometimes referred to  as ‘salicylate’ or ‘acetylsalicylic acid’.
if you’re thinking about giving your child medicine for sleep or behaviour problems, always talk to your doctor first about what’s safe and what will work.
institute of clinical systems improvements (2007).
on the other hand, they cause some children to become more active and alert.
mixing prescription medicine and over-the-counter medicine from a pharmacist can be very dangerous.
when your doctor prescribes medicine for your child, you might like to ask: ‘what’s the medicine prescribed for?’
they can’t be used to treat croup because they’ll dry out  your child’s air passages.
medications known asantihistamines are used to block these symptoms.
how to use medicines in children: principles of paediatric clinical pharmacology.
if your child has a fever, her body’s probably fighting an infection,  and medicine might slow down this process.
oral decongestants like dimetapp elixir and demazin syrup aren’t  recommended for children under two years of age.
© 2006-2012 raising children network (australia) limited
until your baby is six months old, don’t give him any medicine at  all (unless prescribed by a doctor).
inquiry into the use of prescription drugs and over-the-counter medications in children and young people: the use by children and young people of prescription drugs and over-the-counter medications in children and young people.
always check  with your doctor or pharmacist first.
aspirin can make your child susceptible to reye’s  syndrome, a rare but potentially fatal illness.
vitamins: a good idea?
paracetamol for children comes in different strengths and varieties, so read the label and follow the instructions carefully.
when your child’s feeling under the weather, there’s only one  thing you want to do – make him feel better as soon as possible.
© 2006-2012 raising children network (australia) limited.
there’s no evidence that vitamin and mineral supplements help children’s health in any way unless the child has a deficiency of some kind – and very few children suffer from these deficiencies.
journal of paediatrics and child health, 43, 107-111.
others target a broad range of bacteria and are called ‘broad-spectrum antibiotics’.
some brands don’t have a sedating effect (for example, zyrtec  and claratyne) and are more suitable for your child.
children under two years shouldn’t be given anithistamines.
antibiotics antibiotics work only on bacterial infections, not on viruses.
infection might come  back a week or two later if the bacteria aren’t completely gone from her  system.
your doctor has many different antibiotics to choose from.
a high fever can make your child irritable, so  medicine can be used to lower his temperature if he’s really  uncomfortable.
antihistamines can sometimes cause dry mouths, drowsiness and upset  stomachs.
committee on children and young people (2002).
also, giving paracetamol to a child  under one year of age has been shown to increase the risk of asthma.
choonara, i. (2000).
these medications sometimes cause drowsiness, so they might also  affect his ability to learn.
us department of health and human services (2001).
usuallyvomiting is pretty short-lived,  and children can handle it without medication.
phenergan some parents give their children antihistamines, such as phenergan (which is one of a few brands of the drug promethazine), to help them sleep.
if  you’re having trouble getting your child to sleep, ourguide to solving  sleep problems might help.
ibuprofen is a safe alternative to paracetamol, but avoid it if your  child is vomiting or has asthma.
diagnosis and treatment of respiratory illness in children and adults.
also, drinking plenty of water does more to relieve a cough than medicine – but do see your doctor if the cough persists, or seems particularly bad.
speak to your doctor for further information on suitable medication options for your child.
(for example, high doses of  vitamins a and d can accumulate in the body and cause side effects.)
‘will it have side effects?’
why are children still therapeutic orphans?, australian prescriber, 26(6), 122-123.
it can also cause serious  illness or even death in children with chicken pox or flu symptoms.
medicines for children: the last century and the next.
clinical trials of medicines in children.
home / newborns / health  & daily care / doctors & medicines medications for children print by raising children network
always check with your doctor or pharmacist first.
archives of disease in childhood, 85(3), 177-179.
association between paracetamol use in infancy and childhood, and risk of asthma, rhinoconjunctivitis, and eczema in children aged 6–7 years: analysis from phase three of the isaac programme.
don’t give your child anti-nausea medication unless the  doctor specifically recommends it.
it’s more important to monitor other symptoms, such as vomiting and coughing, than just looking at her temperature.
paracetamol is safe if you follow the recommended doses, but an overdose can cause liver failure.
infection might come back a week or two later if the bacteria aren’t completely gone from her system.
think very carefully before giving your child any medicine that hasn’t been prescribed by a doctor.
mixing prescription medicine and  over-the-counter medicine from a pharmacist can be very dangerous.
but it can be hard to know what kind of medication to give and when.
chewable tablets are too small to give to your child – he can  easily choke on them.
aspirin should never be given to young children, because there’s a strong possibility of serious side effects.
paracetamol or ibuprofen are found in many over-the-counter cough and cold  medicines, so it pays to read the label carefully.
research suggests that children with viral infections such as colds  or the flu are being prescribed antibiotics unnecessarily.
stephenson, t. (2001).
they can’t be used to treat croup because they’ll dry out your child’s air passages.
but it  can be hard to know what kind of medication to give and when.
you might be thinking about giving your child medication to calm difficult behaviour.
on the other hand, they cause some children to  become more active and alert.
it’s more important to monitor  other symptoms, such as vomiting and coughing, than just looking at her  temperature.
if your child needs to take  antibiotics, she shouldcomplete the entire course of  antibiotics, even if she seems better after a few days.
speak to  your doctor for further information on suitable medication options for your  child.
lancet, 372(9643), 1039-1048.
british medical journal, 321, 1093-1094.
‘can i put the medicine in food, or should i be giving my child  certain foods with the medicine?’
using antibiotics incorrectly can lead to side effects such asdiarrhoea, dehydration and allergies.
‘how long should the prescription last?’
children under two years shouldn’t  be given anithistamines.
the decision to use antibiotics depends on your doctor, and your  child’s symptoms and medical history.
‘does the medicine need to be kept in the fridge or away from light  or heat?’
your  doctor will try to choose the right antibiotic to fight the bacteria infecting  your child.
research shows thatantihistamines have almost no effect on children’s sleep patterns.
check with  your doctor if you think this might be the case with your child.
when your doctor prescribes medicine for your child, you might like to ask: beasley, r., clayton, t., crane, j., et al. (2008).
if your child is already taking prescribed medicine, it’s best  to check with your doctor before giving her any paracetamol or ibuprofen.
these medications sometimes cause drowsiness, so they might also affect his ability to learn.
it’s never safe to give these to your child.
aspirin should never be given to young  children, because there’s a strong possibility of serious side effects.
you might also like to read our article on vitamins and minerals.
expired medicine doesn’t work and can even be harmful.
you might be thinking about giving your child medication to calm difficult  behaviour.
medications known asantihistamines are used to block these symptoms.
washington, dc: us food and drug administration.
‘should i give the medicine at any specific time, like before or  after food?’
‘how soon will it start to work?’
did you know adult medicine isn’t suitable for children – their small  bodies are very sensitive to medicine, and they need medications that  have been specifically designed for their size and their needs.
also, giving paracetamol to a child under one year of age has been shown to increase the risk of asthma.
research suggests that children with viral infections such as colds or the flu are being prescribed antibiotics unnecessarily.
cranswick, n. (2001).
if you’re not sure what’s in a particular medicine, ask the pharmacist or your child’s doctor.
make  sure you give your child the right amount for his weight.
antihistamines itching, sneezing, swelling or rashes can all be symptoms of allergies.
a high fever can make your child irritable, so medicine can be used to lower his temperature if he’s really uncomfortable.
not all  over-the-counter medicines are aspirin-free, so you need to check this with  your pharmacist or doctor, or read the label.
medicines to avoid think very carefully before giving your child any medicine that  hasn’t been prescribed by a doctor.
when your child’s feeling under the weather, there’s only one thing you want to do – make him feel better as soon as possible.
check with your doctor if you think this might be the case with your child.
in fact, coughing is actually a great way to clear mucus  from airways, and helps prevent children from getting another infection.
your doctor will try to choose the right antibiotic to fight the bacteria infecting your child.
using antibiotics  incorrectly can lead to side effects such asdiarrhoea, dehydration and  allergies.
if your child is vomiting and  begins to get dehydrated, contact your doctor immediately.
decongestants might cause unpleasant side effects like grumpiness, confusion and sleepiness.
the doctor might also need to order some tests to find out what  type of bacteria is causing your child’s infection.
also, antihistamines aren’t recommended for long-term use, so check with your doctor before giving them to your child.
rated24 ratingsrate this item feedbacktell us what you think of this item your story share your parenting tips more to explore
phenergan some parents give their children  antihistamines, such as phenergan (which is one of a few brands of the drug  promethazine), to help them sleep.
warning: this website and the information it contains is not intended as a substitute for professional consultation with a qualified practitioner.
antihistamines can be  given with any antibiotic, paracetamol (such as panadol), ibuprofen (such as  nurofen), decongestants or cough suppressants.
also, antihistamines aren’t recommended for  long-term use, so check with your doctor before giving them to your child.
if your child has a fever, her body’s probably fighting an infection, and medicine might slow down this process.
paracetamol is often used to relieve pain or to lower a child’s fever.
retrieved may 30, 2007, from http://www.guideline.gov/summary/summary.aspx?doc_id=10622&nbr=005564&string=medication+and+children.
‘how much should i give my child, and how should i give it to  her?’
‘will the medicine interact or interfere with anything else my child  is taking?’
get the facts on over 100 illnesses and health  conditions which can affect babies and young children.
many parents give their children decongestants to relieve cold and flu symptoms, but there’s little evidence that these actually work.
if you’re having trouble getting your child to sleep, ourguide to solving sleep problems might help.
adult medications or medication prescribed for someone else might harm  your child.
some are  effective against only certain types of bacteria.
some are effective against only certain types of bacteria.
if you’re thinking about giving your  child medicine for sleep or behaviour problems, always talk to your doctor  first about what’s safe and what will work.
sinha,y., & cranswick, n. (2007).
paracetamol is safe if you follow the recommended doses,  but an overdose can cause liver failure.
antibiotics work only on bacterial infections, not on viruses.
others target a broad range  of bacteria and are called ‘broad-spectrum antibiotics’.
there’s no evidence that vitamin and mineral supplements help  children’s health in any way unless the child has a deficiency of some  kind – and very few children suffer from these deficiencies.
antihistamines can sometimes cause dry mouths, drowsiness and upset stomachs.
sydney: nsw government.
over-the-counter medication in children: friend or foe?australian presciber, 24(6), 149-151.
some brands don’t have a sedating effect (for example, zyrtec and claratyne) and are more suitable for your child.
you can also find more  information in our article onpills, potions and tonics for sleep.