if your child is dehydrated or vomiting, ibuprofen should only be given under the supervision of a doctor due to risk of kidney damage.
these so-called antipyretic agents include acetaminophen, ibuprofen, and aspirin.
if your  child is dehydrated or vomiting, ibuprofen should only be given under the  supervision of a doctor due to risk of kidney damage.
this approach, however, can cause medication errors—“which medicine am i supposed to give him next?”—and could lead to potential side effects.
studies also have shown that these cough and cold products are not effective in treating the symptoms of children under six years old, and may even pose health risks.
following the  instructions is important to ensure that your child receives the proper  dosages.
as a general guideline, read and follow the instructions on the  manufacturer’s label when using any medication.
ideally, the doses of acetaminophen and ibuprofen should be based on a child’s weight, not his age.
acetominophen can be given without a doctor’s advice once your child is older than three months, and ibuprofen can be given to children older than six months of age.
however, the dosages listed on the labels of acetaminophen bottles (which are usually calculated by age) are generally safe and effective unless your child is unusually light or heavy for his age.
also, as a general rule, do not give a child under two years old either acetaminophen or any other medication without the advice of your pediatrician.
so if your child  is uncomfortable with a fever, choose which medicine to give, and then give it  consistently.
also keep in mind that over-the-counter cough and cold medicines should not be given to infants and children under two years of age because of potentially serious side effects.
when a toxic reaction does occur,  the symptoms may include nausea, vomiting, and abdominal discomfort.
these so-called antipyretic agents include acetaminophen,  ibuprofen, and aspirin.
last updated 10/4/2011 source caring for your baby and young child: birth to age 5 (copyright ©  2009 american academy of pediatrics) share
also, otherover-the-counter medications, such as cold and cough preparations, may contain acetaminophen.
studies also have shown that these cough and  cold products are not effective in treating the symptoms of children under six  years old, and may even pose health risks.
however, because aspirin may cause or be  associated withreye syndrome, the american academy of pediatrics does not  recommend using aspirin to treat a simple fever in children.
also, otherover-the-counter medications, such as cold and cough  preparations, may contain acetaminophen.
acetominophen can be given without a doctor’s advice once your child  is older than three months, and ibuprofen can be given to children older than  six months of age.
also keep in mind that over-the-counter cough and cold medicines should  not be given to infants and children under two years of age because of  potentially serious side effects.
however, if your child has kidney disease, asthma, an ulcer, or other chronic illness, ask your doctor first if ibuprofen is safe.
some parents have tried alternating between giving acetaminophen and ibuprofen when their child is running a fever.
when a toxic reaction does occur, the symptoms may include nausea, vomiting, and abdominal discomfort.
as a general guideline, read and follow the instructions on the manufacturer’s label when using any medication.
however, if your child has kidney disease, asthma, an ulcer,  or other chronic illness, ask your doctor first if ibuprofen is safe.
healthy children > health issues > conditions  >fever > medications used to treat fever health issues medications used to treat fever article body several medications can reduce body temperature by blocking the mechanisms  that cause a fever.
the simultaneous use of more than  one  acetaminophen-containing product may be dangerous, so read all  medication labels to ensure that your child is not receiving multiple doses of  the same medicine.
however, the dosages listed on the labels of  acetaminophen bottles (which are usually calculated by age) are generally safe  and effective unless your child is unusually light or heavy for his age.
keep  in mind that at too high doses of acetaminophen, a toxic response in the liver  can develop, although it happens only rarely.
either ibuprofen or acetominophen are effective in reducing fever and making your child feel better.
all three of these over-the-counter drugs appear to be equally effective at reducing fever.
always consult your doctor before changing the dose schedule, or using these medicines in combination.
keep in mind that at too high doses of acetaminophen, a toxic response in the liver can develop, although it happens only rarely.
however, because aspirin may cause or be associated withreye syndrome, the american academy of pediatrics does not recommend using aspirin to treat a simple fever in children.
all three of these over-the-counter drugs appear to be  equally effective at reducing fever.
either ibuprofen or acetominophen are effective in reducing fever  and making your child feel better.
always consult your doctor before changing  the dose schedule, or using these medicines in combination.
this approach, however, can  cause medication errors—“which medicine am i supposed to give him  next?”—and could lead to potential side effects.
several medications can reduce body temperature by blocking the mechanisms that cause a fever.
following the instructions is important to ensure that your child receives the proper dosages.
so if your child is uncomfortable with a fever, choose which medicine to give, and then give it consistently.
ideally, the doses of acetaminophen and ibuprofen should be based on a  child’s weight, not his age.
also, as a general rule, do not give a child under two years  old either acetaminophen or any other medication without the advice of your  pediatrician.
the simultaneous use of more than one acetaminophen-containing product may be dangerous, so read all medication labels to ensure that your child is not receiving multiple doses of the same medicine.
topic landing page © copyright 2009 american academy of pediatrics.
some parents have tried alternating between giving acetaminophen and  ibuprofen when their child is running a fever.