scientific tests have identified and named 20 active minor pain-killing alkaloids in corydalis, and chief among these is tetrahydropalmatine (thp), which inhibits the reticular-activating system in the brain stem.
minor pain relief contains a standardized extract of hops, called humulex.
december;39(4):342-348.
consult a doctor if these symptoms are more than mild or if they persist.
corydalis corydalis (corydalis yanhusuo), a member of the poppy family, has been used  successfully for over 2,000 years within the system of traditional chinese  herbalism to inhibit minor, everyday pain.
terms of use | privacy policy | terms and conditions of sale | disclaimer copyright © 2001-2010, discount herbs & vitamins, inc.
take  with food or milk if occasional and mild heartburn, upset stomach, or stomach  pain occurs with use.
scientific tests have identified and  named 20 active minor pain-killing alkaloids in corydalis, and chief among  these is tetrahydropalmatine (thp), which inhibits the reticular-activating  system in the brain stem.
planetary herbals brings you minor pain
a few years later, the salicylic acid was buffered with sodium and acetyl chloride, making acetylsalicylic acid, better known as aspirin.
it is especially important not to use ibuprofen during  the last 3 months of pregnancy unless specifically directed to do so by a  doctor because it may cause problems in the unborn child or complications  during delivery.
pliny the elder (23 ad-79 ad) recorded that the  ancient romans ate the shoots of the plant the way that we eat asparagus.
do not take for pain for more than 10 days or for fever for more than 3  days unless directed by a doctor.
as with any drug, if you are pregnant or  nursing a baby, seek the advice of a health professional before using this  product.
minor  pain relief contains a standardized extract of hops, called humulex™.
if pain or fever does not respond to 1  tablet, 2 tablets may be used but do not exceed 6 tablets in 24 hours, unless  directed by a doctor.
by 1829, scientists discovered that it was a compound called salicin in willow  bark that gave minor pain relief.
relief, a safe, effective herbal formula that soothes minor pain, inhibits  cox-2 inflammatory response, and strengthens the body with antioxidants.
when cox-2 is inhibited by humulex, pge-2 levels fall, lessening minor cellular swelling and irritation.
willow bark monograph.
planetary herbals brings you minor pain relief, a safe, effective herbal formula that soothes minor pain, inhibits cox-2 inflammatory response, and strengthens the body with antioxidants.
directions: adults: take 1 tablet every 4 to 6 hours while symptoms persist.
suppressive effects of eugenol and ginger oil on  arthritic rats.
please consult a qualified medical practitioner for medical advice.
aspirin, ibuprofen, acetaminophen, pain relief articles acetaminophen leading cause of liver failure death long-term aspirin users risk breast cancer pine tree bark reduces arthritis pain by inhibiting cox-ii side effects of regular aspirin use outweigh benefits in elderly - try nattokinase compare
ibuprofen may cause stomach bleeding.
by 1829, scientists discovered that it was a compound called salicin in willow bark that gave minor pain relief.
references: srivastava, k.c., t. mustafa. 1989.
the greeks used it in the first century.
if you experience any symptoms which are unusual or seem  unrelated to the condition for which you took ibuprofen, consult a doctor  before taking any more of it.
thp, in effect,  deactivates the nerve cell pathway between where minor pain is felt and where  it is registered.
ginger ginger (zingiber officinale) lessens everyday minor pain and the cellular irritation that accompanies it by decreasing the production of prostaglandins generated by the cox-2 enzyme.
ginger (zingiber officinale) and rheumatic disorders.
the formula contains corydalis, from chinese herbalism; hops from european  herbal traditions; willow bark, used for centuries for natural minor pain  relief; and ginger, which supports the body’s healthy defenses, soothes  minor pain, and fortifies with powerful antioxidants and cox-2 inhibitors.
willow bark willow bark (salix spp) has been used for health for approximately 2,000 years.
corydalis has also been shown to support healthy  cardiovascular processes such as regular heartbeat and blood pressure.
if you are  under a doctor's care for any serious conditions, consult a doctor before  taking this product   as with aspirin and acetaminophen, if you have  any condition which requires you to take prescription drugs or if you have had  any problems or serious side effects from taking any non-prescription pain  reliever, do not take ibuprofen caplets without first discussing it with your  doctor.
ginger (zingiber officinale) in  rheumatism and musculoskeletal disorders.
the formula contains corydalis, from chinese herbalism; hops from european herbal traditions; willow bark, used for centuries for natural minor pain relief; and ginger, which supports the bodys healthy defenses, soothes minor pain, and fortifies with powerful antioxidants and cox-2 inhibitors.
willow bark willow bark (salix spp) has been used for health for approximately 2,000  years.
humulex™ includes humulone,  cohumulone and isohumulone, all of which have proved effective at inhibiting  the enzyme cyclooxygenase (cox-2).
take with food or milk if occasional and mild heartburn, upset stomach, or stomach pain occurs with use.
[antioxidant  protection | orac value |  maintains cellular health | references] pain relief - herbal, safe, effective a natural cox-ii inhibitor, for all natural relief from minor pain  associated with occasional tension, stress and over-exertion.
consult a doctor if these symptoms are more than  mild or if they persist.
inactive ingredients: anhydrous lactose, colloidal silicon dioxide,  hydroxypropyl cellulose, hydroxypropyl methylcellulose, magnesium stearate,  microcrystalline cellulose, polyethylene glycol, povidone, sodium lauryl  sulfate, sodium starch glycolate, starch, titanium dioxide.
ginger is non-irritating and contains powerful antioxidants that strengthen and support the body on a cellular level.
hyaluronic acid center, neptune krill oil & rejuvenation science for doctors pain relief pain relief - herbal, safe, effective a natural cox-ii inhibitor, for all natural relief from minor pain associated with occasional tension, stress and over-exertion.
the result: an herbal product line that is unequalled for efficacy, safety, and dependability.
corydalis corydalis (corydalis yanhusuo), a member of the poppy family, has been used successfully for over 2,000 years within the system of traditional chinese herbalism to inhibit minor, everyday pain.
ginger, as well as corydalis, promotes  healthy tissues and good circulation.
planetary herbals integrates the best of  worldwide herbal traditions with modern clinical and pharmacological research.
november; 49(5):314-318.
active ingredient: each tablet contains ibuprofen usp 200 mg.
a few years later, the salicylic acid was  buffered with sodium and acetyl chloride, making acetylsalicylic acid, better  known as aspirin.
directions: adults: take 1 tablet every 4 to 6  hours while symptoms persist.
inactive ingredients: anhydrous lactose, colloidal silicon dioxide, hydroxypropyl cellulose, hydroxypropyl methylcellulose, magnesium stearate, microcrystalline cellulose, polyethylene glycol, povidone, sodium lauryl sulfate, sodium starch glycolate, starch, titanium dioxide.
, it should not be taken with them  except under a doctor's direction.
200 mg; daily dose not to exceed 800 mg to 1200 mg indications: for the temporary relief of minor aches and pains  associated with the common cold, headache, toothache, muscular aches, backache,  for the minor pain of arthritis, for the pain of menstrual cramps and for  reduction of fever.
the wrinkle cure for youthful skin home | specials | product info | old health news | faqs | about us | blog |links | links2 | links3 | sitemap | contact us alphabetic product listing |products by category | links4 |
although ibuprofen is indicated for the  same conditions as aspirin and acetaminophen
do not take for pain for more than 10 days or for fever for more than 3 days unless directed by a doctor.
links5 toll free: 800-401-9186
back to top minor pain relief msrp: $28.50 our price: $19.00 5-htp - 7-keto dhea - acai - acetyl l-carnitine - ageless face, ageless mind - ahcc - albizzia - alpha-lipoic acid and r-lipoic acid - aronia from chokeberry - astaxanthin - avemar - bacopa - beta glucan - bilberry - bioperine - butterbur - cetyl myristoleate (cmo) -
these could be signs of a serious illness.
if pain or fever persists or gets worse, if new symptoms occur, or if the painful area is red or swollen, consult a doctor.
modern clinical studies prove that willow bark remains as  effective as ever for the relief of minor pain and inflammatory mechanisms.
this system is composed of intertwined nerve fibers, called axons, which link the brain to the spinal cord.
do not combine this product with any other  ibuprofen containing product.
alcohol warning: if you consume 3 or more alcoholic drinks  every day, ask your doctor whether you should take ibuprofen or other pain  relievers/fever reducers.
unlike many other compounds, ginger is renowned for being easy on the stomach.
humulex includes humulone, cohumulone and isohumulone, all of which have proved effective at inhibiting the enzyme cyclooxygenase (cox-2).
chlorella: sun, yaeyama - cinnamon - cla - coconut oil - coenzymeq10 - curcumin from turmeric - dha neuromins- digestive enzymes - echinacea - epicor -fenugreek - french maritime pine tree bark - garlic - ginkgo biloba -glucosamine & chondroitin -goji berry - goldenseal - grape seed extract - green tea - guggulow - hoodia - horse chestnut - human growth hormone (hgh) - hyaluronic acid - hydrogen (h-): the fuel of life - ip-6 - krill oil - kudzu - l-arginine - l-carnitine - l-carnosine - l-methylfolate - l-tyrosine - lutein - lycopene - mangosteen - milk thistle - modified citrus pectin (mcp) - msm - mushrooms - n-acetyl cysteine (nac) - nattokinase - neptune krill oil - oil of oregano - oligonol - omega-3 - dha, epa - pepsin gi - phosphatidyl serine (ps) - pinolenic acid - policosanol - pomegranate - prevagen - probiotics - probiotic bacillus coagulans - psyllium fiber - pycnogenol - quercetin - red yeast rice - relora - resveratrol - rhodiola rosea - ribose - sam-e - saw palmetto - shower water filter - st. john's wort - stevia - sytrinol - thymic protein a - ubiquinol - valerian - vinpocetine age-related macular degeneration - air pollution - albizzia helps reduce anxiety and stress - alzheimer studies - anxiety & stress - attentive child - add, adhd - calorie restriction diet - candida - colon cancer, colitis, ibd - cox-2, ibuprofen side effects, and pain management - energy - enzymes support digestion - erectile dysfunction - gray hair and balding - hair growth and male pattern baldness - hearing - homocysteine - inflammation and weight loss - immune - life force multiple - liver - menopause - men's fertility - mercury cleansing - milk thistle and liver disease - minor pain and inflammation - omega-3 - ultra purity co2 vs. molecular distillation - orac - osteoporosis - pain relief - parkinson's disease coenzymeq10? -
ginger (zingiber officinale) and  rheumatic disorders.
suppressive effects of eugenol and ginger oil on arthritic rats.
alcohol warning: if you consume 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day, ask your doctor whether you should take ibuprofen or other pain relievers/fever reducers.
the perricone weight-loss diet -relora cortisol and stress-induced eating - senior's health - side effects of lipitor®, zocor® and statin drugs - the sinatra solution: for heart disease - sinus and allergy - st. john's wort - prozac® - syndrome x - tinnitus - transitions for menopause - varicose veins and spider veins -
hops hops (humulus lupulus) is a bitter-tasting climbing perennial vine used  worldwide in beer-making.
this remedy is neither habit forming nor irritating to the stomach.
in 1757, willow bark was known  to be employed by english doctors to reduce occasional minor aches and pains.
american herbal pharmacopoeia.
warning: aspirin sensitive patients, do not take this product if you  have had a severe allergic reaction to aspirin, e.g. asthma, swelling, shock or  hives, because even though this product contains no aspirin or salicylates,  cross-reactions may occur in patients allergic to aspirin.
children:  do not give this product to children under 12 except  under the advice and supervision of a doctor.
the cox-2 enzyme helps convert omega-6  arachidonic acid to prostaglandin-2 (pge-2), a prostaglandin that can lead to  cellular irritation and swelling.
hops hops (humulus lupulus) is a bitter-tasting climbing perennial vine used worldwide in beer-making.
ginger, as well as corydalis, promotes healthy tissues and good circulation.
modern research has documented that humulex, the alpha acid of hops, can be  used to relieve minor pain as well as the minor, everyday, cellular swelling  and irritation that goes along with it.
the smallest effective dose should be used.
planetary herbals is pleased to bring you this safe, effective remedy to support your health and well-being.
if you are under a doctor's care for any serious conditions, consult a doctor before taking this product as with aspirin and acetaminophen, if you have any condition which requires you to take prescription drugs or if you have had any problems or serious side effects from taking any non-prescription pain reliever, do not take ibuprofen caplets without first discussing it with your doctor.
do not combine this product with any other ibuprofen containing product.
planetary herbals is pleased to bring you this safe, effective remedy to  support your health and well-being.
pliny the elder (23 ad-79 ad) recorded that the ancient romans ate the shoots of the plant the way that we eat asparagus.
srivastava, k.c., t. mustafa.
planetary herbals integrates the best of worldwide herbal traditions with modern clinical and pharmacological research.
although ibuprofen is indicated for the same conditions as aspirin and acetaminophen, it should not be taken with them except under a doctor's direction.
as with any drug, if you are pregnant or nursing a baby, seek the advice of a health professional before using this product.
it is especially important not to use ibuprofen during the last 3 months of pregnancy unless specifically directed to do so by a doctor because it may cause problems in the unborn child or complications during delivery.
corydalis has also been shown to support healthy cardiovascular processes such as regular heartbeat and blood pressure.
oils that make up the vast majority of those in  the american diet—omega-6 fatty acids—are converted by the body into  arachidonic acid, which in turn can develop into prostaglandin-2 (pge-2), among  the body’s chemicals that result in occasional, everyday minor pain.
in 1757, willow bark was known to be employed by english doctors to reduce occasional minor aches and pains.
no, they don’t have to be  accepted as part of modern life.
if pain or fever persists or gets  worse, if new symptoms occur, or if the painful area is red or swollen, consult  a doctor.
warning: aspirin sensitive patients, do not take this product if you have had a severe allergic reaction to aspirin, e.g. asthma, swelling, shock or hives, because even though this product contains no aspirin or salicylates, cross-reactions may occur in patients allergic to aspirin.
children: do not give this product to children under 12 except under the advice and supervision of a doctor.
these statements have not been evaluated by the food and drug administration.
aspirin, ibuprofen, acetaminophen, pain relief articles acetaminophen leading cause of liver failure death long-term aspirin users risk breast cancer pine tree bark reduces arthritis pain by inhibiting cox-ii side effects of regular aspirin use outweigh benefits in elderly - try  nattokinase compare to ibuprofen pain reliever / fever reducer.
aches and minor pains.
modern clinical studies prove that willow bark remains as effective as ever for the relief of minor pain and inflammatory mechanisms.
the result: an herbal product line that is unequalled for efficacy, safety, and  dependability.
modern research has documented that humulex, the alpha acid of hops, can be used to relieve minor pain as well as the minor, everyday, cellular swelling and irritation that goes along with it.
if you experience any symptoms which are unusual or seem unrelated to the condition for which you took ibuprofen, consult a doctor before taking any more of it.
this system is composed of intertwined nerve fibers,  called axons, which link the brain to the spinal cord.
ginger is non-irritating and contains powerful antioxidants that strengthen and  support the body on a cellular level.
thp, in effect, deactivates the nerve cell pathway between where minor pain is felt and where it is registered.
no, they dont have to be accepted as part of modern life.
if pain or fever does not respond to 1 tablet, 2 tablets may be used but do not exceed 6 tablets in 24 hours, unless directed by a doctor.
oils that make up the vast majority of those in the american dietomega-6 fatty acidsare converted by the body into arachidonic acid, which in turn can develop into prostaglandin-2 (pge-2), among the bodys chemicals that result in occasional, everyday minor pain.
when cox-2 is inhibited by humulex™,  pge-2 levels fall, lessening minor cellular swelling and irritation.
to ibuprofen pain reliever / fever reducer.
these products are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent any disease.
ginger ginger (zingiber officinale) lessens everyday minor pain and the cellular  irritation that accompanies it by decreasing the production of prostaglandins  generated by the cox-2 enzyme.
ginger (zingiber officinale) in rheumatism and musculoskeletal disorders.
200 mg; daily dose not to exceed 800 mg to 1200 mg indications: for the temporary relief of minor aches and pains associated with the common cold, headache, toothache, muscular aches, backache, for the minor pain of arthritis, for the pain of menstrual cramps and for reduction of fever.
the cox-2 enzyme helps convert omega-6 arachidonic acid to prostaglandin-2 (pge-2), a prostaglandin that can lead to cellular irritation and swelling.