while it is important to look for the cause of a fever, the main purpose for treating it is to help your child feel better.
signs and symptoms of a fever
normal body  temperature varies with age, general health, activity level, and time of day.
ways to use a digital thermometer by age child's age rectal oral axillary newborn to 3 months x 3 months to  3 years x   x 4 to 5 years x x x 5 years and older   x x tympanic (ear) thermometers are another option for older babies and  children.
most pediatricians consider a temperature above 100.4°f (38°c) a  sign of a fever.
if this happens, place him on the floor or bed, away from any hard or sharp objects.
also remove her from the bath if she continues to shiver because shivering can raise her temperature.
however, while it gives quick results, it needs to be placed  correctly in your child's ear to be accurate.
be sure to call your child's doctor if your child still "acts sick" once her fever is brought down, or if you feel that your child is very sick.
rest your free hand against the back of the thighs.
place your child belly down across your lap or on a firm surface.
too much earwax can cause the reading to be incorrect.
check the digital reading.
do not rinse it with hot water.
turn his head to the side so that any saliva or vomit can drain from his mouth.
your child's doctor can  recommend how to use it depending on your child's age.
while this can be  frightening, seizures are usually harmless.
while other methods for taking your child's temperature are available, they  are not recommended at this time.
if she is still bothered by the bath, it is better to take  her out even if she has not been in long enough to reduce the fever.
however, most will have symptoms of the illness that is causing the fever.
the following is how to take anaxillary temperature: place the tip of a digital thermometer in your child's armpit.
to be safe, talk with your child's doctor before giving your child any medicine to treat a fever if he is younger than 2 years.
or place  your child face up and bend his legs to his chest.
fevers are generally harmless.
call your child's doctor.
for a correct reading, wait at least 15 minutes after your child has had a  hot or cold drink before putting the thermometer in his mouth.
read on to find out  more about how to tell if your child has a fever and how to manage a fever.
do not put anything into his mouth, not even a finger.
they do not need a prescription and are available at  grocery stores and drugstores.
aspirin has been linked  with side effects such as an upset stomach, intestinal bleeding and, most  seriously, reye syndrome.
rinse  with cool water.
she may also be more thirsty than usual.
once your child is 4 or 5 years of age, you can take his temperature by mouth.
hold in place for about 1 minute, until you hear the "beep."
turn the thermometer on and place the tip under his tongue toward the back  of his mouth.
turn his head to the side so that any saliva or vomit can drain from his  mouth.
your child's doctor may recommend that you try sponging your child to  reduce a fever if your child's temperature is above 104°f (40°c).
then remove and check the digital reading.
mercury thermometers should not be used.
while this can be frightening, seizures are usually harmless.
this could cause it to rebound  higher.
most pediatricians consider a temperature above 100.4°f (38°c) a sign of a fever.
read on to find out more about how to tell if your child has a fever and how to manage a fever.
if your child has a fever, she may feel warm, appear flushed, or sweat more than usual.
for a correct reading, wait at least 15 minutes after your child has had a hot or cold drink before putting the thermometer in his mouth.
or place your child face up and bend his legs to his chest.
the american academy of  pediatrics encourages parents to remove mercury thermometers from their homes  to prevent accidental exposure to this toxin.
rinse it with cool water.
adigital thermometer can be used to take a rectal (in the bottom), oral (in the mouth), or axillary (under the arm) temperature.
it is important to look for the cause of the febrile seizure.
during a seizure your child may  look strange for a few minutes; shake; then stiffen, twitch, and roll his eyes.
with the other hand, turn the thermometer on and insert it 1/2 inch to 1  inch into the anal opening.
also call if the fever persists for more than 24 hours in a child younger than 2 years more than 3 days in a child 2 years of age or older digital thermometer drawings by anthony alex letourneau copyright © 2007 american academy of pediatrics, updated 9/07 the  information contained in this publication should not be used as a substitute  for the medical care and advice of your pediatrician.
it should not be given to children who are vomiting constantly or are dehydrated.
has other symptoms such as a stiff neck, severe headache, severe sore  throat, severe ear pain, an unexplained rash, or repeated vomiting or diarrhea has immune system problems such as sickle cell disease or cancer, or is  taking steroids has had a seizure is younger than 2 months and has a rectal temperature of 100.4°f  (38°c) or higher
however, keep the following in mind: ibuprofen should only be used for children older than 6 months.
taking your child's temperature
if your child becomes upset during the sponging, simply let her play in the water.
once your child is 4 or 5 years of age, you can take his temperature by  mouth.
if she is still bothered by the bath, it is better to take her out even if she has not been in long enough to reduce the fever.
print   |  e-mail a link  |  download pdf  (528.4 kb)   | customized pdf add to bookmarks © get permissions fever and your child a fever is usually a sign that the body is fighting an illness or  infection.
use lukewarm water, not cold water.
also call if the fever persists for more than 24 hours in a child younger than 2 years more than 3 days in a child 2 years of age or older digital thermometer drawings by anthony alex letourneau copyright © 2007 american academy of pediatrics, updated 9/07
in fact, they can be considered a  good sign that your child's immune system is working and the body is trying to  heal itself.
see also: - fever - fever basics ©2011 copyright american academy of pediatrics,  all rights reserved site map | contact us | privacy statement | about us | home american academy of pediatrics, 141 northwest point blvd.,
when to call the doctor call your child's doctor right away if your child has a fever and looks very ill, is unusually drowsy, or is very fussy has been in a very hot place, such as an overheated car
it should  not be given to children who are vomiting constantly or are dehydrated.
ways to use a digital thermometer by age tympanic (ear) thermometers are another option for older babies and children.
although not as accurate, if your child is older than 3 months, you can  take his underarm temperature to see if he has a fever.
never add rubbing alcohol to the water.
usually 5 to 10 minutes in the tub is enough time for a child's fever to start dropping.
if she is eating and sleeping well and is  able to play, you may wait to see if the fever improves by itself.
usually 5 to 10 minutes in the tub is enough time for a child's fever to  start dropping.
with the other hand, turn the thermometer on and insert it 1/2 inch to 1 inch into the anal opening.
hold him  by placing your palm against his lower back, just above his bottom.
how to reduce a fever with medicine acetaminophen and ibuprofen are safe and effective medicines  for reducing fevers.
in fact, they can be considered a good sign that your child's immune system is working and the body is trying to heal itself.
while other methods for taking your child's temperature are available, they are not recommended at this time.
these signs can provide important clues as to the cause of the fever.
bright futures parent handout: 1 month visit bright  futures parent handout: 1 month visit rsv, bronchiolitis, and  your baby rsv, bronchiolitis, and your baby search select about this site   contact us   help     aap links aap home aap grand rounds aap news aap pediatric  coding newsletter aap policy bookstore ebooks eqipp healthychildren.org member  center neoreviews pedialink pediatric care online pediatrics pediatrics in  review practice management online red book online officite (sign out)
if your child has a fever, she may feel warm, appear flushed, or sweat more  than usual.
they do not need a prescription and are available at grocery stores and drugstores.
keep it there for about 1 minute, until you hear the "beep."
how to reduce a fever with sponging
while you often can tell if your child is warmer than usual by feeling her  forehead, only a thermometer can tell how high the temperature is.
these signs can provide  important clues as to the cause of the fever.
do not insert it too far.
also, if your child is taking  other medicines check the ingredients.
hold the thermometer in  place loosely with 2 fingers, keeping your hand cupped around your child's  bottom.
too much earwax can cause the  reading to be incorrect.
your child may have an earache, a sore throat, a rash, or a stomachache.
treating your child's fever
hold the thermometer in place loosely with 2 fingers, keeping your hand cupped around your child's bottom.
encourage her to drink fluids such as water, diluted juices, or a  store-bought electrolyte solution.
if your child becomes upset during the sponging, simply let her  play in the water.
make sure that she is dressed in light clothing.
aspirin has been linked with side effects such as an upset stomach, intestinal bleeding and, most seriously, reye syndrome.
do not use aspirin to treat your child's fever.
the following is how to  take anaxillary temperature: place the tip of a digital thermometer in your child's armpit.
normal body temperature varies with age, general health, activity level, and time of day.
what if my child has a febrile seizure?
the following is how to take anoral temperature: clean the thermometer with lukewarm soapy water or rubbing alcohol.
before giving your child any medicine, read the label to make sure that you are giving the right dose for his age and weight.
even how much clothing a person wears can affect body temperature.
in some young children, fever can trigger seizures.
rest your free hand against  the back of the thighs.
if your child is older than 6 months and has a temperature below 101°f  (38.3°c), she probably does not need to be treated for the fever unless she  is uncomfortable.
cold water can cause shivering and increase the temperature.
be sure to label the rectal thermometer so it's not accidentally used in  the mouth.
this could cause it to rebound higher.
adigital  thermometer can be used to take a rectal (in the bottom), oral (in the  mouth), or axillary (under the arm) temperature.
taking a rectal or oral temperature is more accurate than taking an axillary temperature.
rubbing alcohol can be absorbed into the skin or inhaled, causing serious problems such as a coma.
how to use a digital thermometer
if she is eating and sleeping well and is able to play, you may wait to see if the fever improves by itself.
hold his arm tightly against his chest for about 1 minute, until you hear  the "beep."
the following is how to take a rectal temperature: clean the end of the thermometer with rubbing alcohol or soap and water.
during a seizure your child may look strange for a few minutes; shake; then stiffen, twitch, and roll his eyes.
your child's doctor may recommend that you try sponging your child to reduce a fever if your child's temperature is above 104°f (40°c).
has other symptoms such as a stiff neck, severe headache, severe sore throat, severe ear pain, an unexplained rash, or repeated vomiting or diarrhea has immune system problems such as sickle cell disease or cancer, or is taking steroids has had a seizure is younger than 2 months and has a rectal temperature of 100.4°f (38°c) or higher
acetaminophen comes in suppository form and can help  reduce a fever in a vomiting child.
your child may have an  earache, a sore throat, a rash, or a stomachache.
put a small amount of lubricant, such as petroleum jelly, on the end.
rubbing  alcohol can be absorbed into the skin or inhaled, causing serious problems such  as a coma.
acetaminophen comes in suppository form and can help reduce a fever in a vomiting child.
what you can do keep her room comfortably cool.
your child's doctor can recommend how to use it depending on your child's age.
how to reduce a fever with medicine acetaminophen and ibuprofen are safe and effective medicines for reducing fevers.
taking a rectal or oral  temperature is more accurate than taking an axillary temperature.
be sure to label the rectal thermometer so it's not accidentally used in the mouth.
if your child is vomiting and cannot take anything by mouth, a rectal  suppository may be needed.
be sure to call your child's doctor if your child still "acts  sick" once her fever is brought down, or if you feel that your child is  very sick.
your child is vomiting and unable to take any medicine.
rinse with cool water.
if your child is vomiting and cannot take anything by mouth, a rectal suppository may be needed.
the american academy of pediatrics encourages parents to remove mercury thermometers from their homes to prevent accidental exposure to this toxin.
fever and your child a fever is usually a sign that the body is fighting an illness or infection.
turn the thermometer on and place the tip under his tongue toward the back of his mouth.
if your child is older than 6 months and has a temperature below 101°f (38.3°c), she probably does not need to be treated for the fever unless she is uncomfortable.
although not as accurate, if your child is older than 3 months, you can take his underarm temperature to see if he has a fever.
hold his arm tightly against his chest for about 1 minute, until you hear the "beep."
encourage her to drink fluids such as water, diluted juices, or a store-bought electrolyte solution.
if your child is younger than 3 years, taking a rectal temperature gives the best reading.
while it is important to look for the cause of a fever, the main  purpose for treating it is to help your child feel better.
your child's doctor will want to check your child, especially if it is his  first seizure.
cold water can cause shivering and  increase the temperature.
there may be variations  in treatment that your pediatrician may recommend based on individual facts and  circumstances.
however, while it gives quick results, it needs to be placed correctly in your child's ear to be accurate.
do not try to reduce a fever too quickly.
also  remove her from the bath if she continues to shiver because shivering can raise  her temperature.
if they include acetaminophen or  ibruprofen, let your child's doctor know.
some children feel fine when they have a fever.
to be safe, talk with your child's  doctor before giving your child any medicine to treat a fever if he is younger  than 2 years.
be sure that she does not overexert herself.
ask your child's doctor for advice.
before giving your child any medicine, read the label to make sure that you  are giving the right dose for his age and weight.
if they include acetaminophen or ibruprofen, let your child's doctor know.
a fever is a body temperature that is higher than normal.
while you often can tell if your child is warmer than usual by feeling her forehead, only a thermometer can tell how high the temperature is.
hold in place for about 1 minute, until you hear the  "beep."
your child's doctor will want to check your child, especially if it is his first seizure.
elk grove  village, il, 60007, 847-434-4000 use of this web site signifies acceptance  of our terms of use
hold him by placing your palm against his lower back, just above his bottom.
however, most will have  symptoms of the illness that is causing the fever.
also, if your child is taking other medicines check the ingredients.