keep  them refridgerated before use.
fever in and of itself is rarely dangerous unless it rises extremely high (most medical folks would consider over 105 degrees f. or 40.55 degrees c. concerning).
oxygen requirements increase 7 percent for every 1 degree f increase in body temperature over 98.6 degrees f. for example if a fever is 103.6 degrees f (39.77 degrees c) there is a 35 percent increase in the bodys need for oxygen.
you can start or stop the alternating schedule at any time, not only those used in the example.
mothers touch on forehead can certainly alert you to an elevated temperature- but is not reliable to prove the absence of fever, nor the best way to track your efforts to reduce one.
start over whenever the fever rises again.
4859 pounds 10 ml (2 tsp) 6074 pounds 12.5 ml (2.5 tsp) 7595 pounds 15 ml (3 tsp) over 95 pounds, may use 2 tabs advil adult- 400 to 600 mg every six hours as needed \\ please see this disclaimer for editorial policy another bump in the beltway production
the human body uses twice as much water with every degree of temperature rise.
for smaller adults and children under 95 lbs, administer according  to the dosage chart below.
fever in and of itself is rarely dangerous unless it rises extremely high  (most medical folks would consider over 105 degrees f. or 40.55 degrees c.  concerning).
for infants that cant  use an oral thermometer, a rectal thermometer is the best bet.
if your child has a history of febrile seizures, discuss  fever care with his/her healthcare provider now, before any illness occurs.
water for 20 minutes.
for adults without  a history of stomach ulcer and who can tolerate the medicine, it is another  choice.
for smaller adults and children under 95 lbs, administer according to the dosage chart below.
discuss the use of antihistamines with your healthcare provider to make sure the patient recieves the treatment appropriate for them.
good  thermometers are available inexpensively in big box stores and many pharmacies.
using this information when taking other cold/flu medicine: many over the counter cold and flu compound medicines already contain tylenol, acetaminophen, or ibuprofen.
water, juices (low acid work best, half strength for children) or half strength  sport drinks work well.
take with crackers or milk if possible, or use tylenol.
if your child has a history of febrile seizures, discuss fever care with his/her healthcare provider now, before any illness occurs.
at 6 pm, check the temperature.
these suppositories are available in the pharmacy section, often  kept refridgerated behind the counter- ask your pharmasist for a pack.
you can start or stop the alternating schedule at any  time, not only those used in the example.
each, so three tablets equal 600 mg.
every four hours as needed ibuprofen suspension ( 100 mg/5 ml) dosing: do not use more than every six hours unless directed by a healthcare provider 2435 pounds 5 ml (1 tsp.)
it might result  in a dangerous overdose of the medicine.
if that is unrealistic in your circumstance, then know how to effectively clean it between uses and people.
treating a fever reduces the chance that a febrile seizure will  occur.
read label cleaning directions for the unit you purchase.
because they come in different strengths check  the label for dosages.
help replace other nutrients lost in fever.
if you are unfamiliar with taking a temperature read the  directions and practice using it - before it is needed.
take this opportunity to check your thermometer.
the human body needs water to maintain enough blood and other fluids to function properly.
if the person starts shivering violently (chills) stop and try again in 20 mins.
do not take on an empty stomach.
alternating fever medicines: some physicians recommend alternating fever control medicines.
if you are unfamiliar with taking a temperature read the directions and practice using it - before it is needed.
the  human body uses twice as much water with every degree of temperature rise.
mercury thermometers are no longer available because of the health risk  posed by the metal released by broken glass.
if over 100.0 degrees f. (37.77 degrees c.), administer  ibuprofen.
that way you can treat symptoms as needed, rather than using a shotgun approach when only one symptom is what you are targeting.
it is supplied to help those that cannot  reach their physican in person or by telephone in times of illness.
using this information when taking other cold/flu medicine: many over  the counter cold and flu compound medicines already contain tylenol,  acetaminophen, or ibuprofen.
it is lowest at 6:00  a.m. 98.9 degrees f (37.16 degrees c.) maximum oral.
in  most cases, although frightening to watch; they are not dangerous in and of  themselves.
rest (dry, in bed) for 20 minutes.
people of any age can become dehydrated, but dehydration develops more quickly and is most dangerous in small children.
this is the reason many healthcare workers choose to use individual  medicines as needed rather than a compound medicine-it is much easier to treat  and adjust the symptoms to the patients needs when single medicines are used.
if they already contain the same medicine you are thinking of  using, do not give more before the previous dose has warn off.
allowing a fever to continue untreated will not be beneficial in a bird flu  infection.
this is the reason many healthcare workers choose to use individual medicines as needed rather than a compound medicine-it is much easier to treat and adjust the symptoms to the patients needs when single medicines are used.
the fever is  102.0 degrees f (38.88 degrees c.).
call you doctor or healthcare provider  before giving other medicine if you are unsure.
for children over two years of age: ibuprofen comes in liquid suspension.
dehydration  results when the body loses more liquid than it takes in.
that way you can treat symptoms as needed, rather than using a  “shotgun” approach when only one symptom is what you are targeting.
any temprature elevations, even if below 101 degrees f. (38.33 degrees c.), should be treated to supress the sudden spike that might trigger a seizure.
an example of this in action: at noon, check the temperature.
it can be used according to label directions by weight (max dose 10  mg/kg every six hours).
ibuprofen: over the counter ibuprofen can be used for fever reduction.
take off unnecessary clothing.
children over 20 kg (44 lbs) can take one adult advil (200 mg).
at 3 pm, check the temperature.
for fever over 104 degeees do this also: sponge person while sitting  in a tub of lukewarm (just over your own body temperture, not cold water!)
aspirin use during illness  with colds, flu or chicken pox has been assosciated with the development of  reyes syndrome, a frequently fatal disease.
in fact, it may serve an important purpose- most bacteria and viruses that infect humans find it hard to replicate at higher than normal human body temperatures.
fever care: take the temperature every four hours.
aspirin use during illness with colds, flu or chicken pox has been assosciated with the development of reyes syndrome, a frequently fatal disease.
for adults without a history of stomach ulcer and who can tolerate the medicine, it is another choice.
if they already contain the same medicine you are thinking of using, do not give more before the previous dose has warn off.
check the temperature three hours later.
the human body  would suffer brain damage at this temperature.
determine if your healthcare provider approves this technique before using it.
most physicians do not recommend them for treating  cold and flu, where no allergy component is happening.
although the ear thermometer has become quite popular lately, many hospital units have stopped using them, because they tend to be unreliable.
if emergency medical services/ emergency department care is available, most physicians would consider seizures a reason to call for ambulance transport to the hospital for evaluation.
3647 pounds 7.5 ml (1.5 tsp.)
anticipate that the thermometers  available will be electronic.
not everyone has every symptom.
these suppositories are available in the pharmacy section, often kept refridgerated behind the counter- ask your pharmasist for a pack.
the human body would suffer brain damage at this temperature.
administer acetaminophen.
heavier covers prevent the radiation of heat and slow down temperature  reduction.
for infants that cant use an oral thermometer, a rectal thermometer is the best bet.
discuss the use of antihistamines with your healthcare provider to  make sure the patient recieves the treatment appropriate for them.
pedialyte (name brand) and similar rehydration liquids
if still over 104 degrees, repeat sponge bath as needed.
people of any age can become dehydrated, but dehydration develops more quickly  and is most dangerous in small children.
many over the counter remedies contain an antihistamine.
in case of vomiting acetaminophen can also be administered by rectal suppository.
unless  approved by their healthcare provider.
don’t give ibuprofen to children under two years of age without  your physicians approval.
most over the counter tablets are 200  mg.
although the ear thermometer has become quite popular  lately, many hospital units have stopped using them, because they tend to be  unreliable.
if you have one on your shelf long term, the internal battery may have failed, rendering the unit useless.
after four hours, recheck the temperature and readminister acetaminophen if  needed.
most children outgrow them by age 8.
for our purposes today, let’s alter that slightly- to properly treat a  fever, you must take a temperature.
for children over two years of age: ibuprofen comes in liquid  suspension.
if the patient has liver disease or illness
it is lowest at 6:00 a.m. 98.9 degrees f (37.16 degrees c.) maximum oral.
this technique can be used for children or adults.
some children will have “febrile seizures”- grand mal or  tonic-clonic type seizures brought on by a rapid rise in body temperature.
most physicians recommend 600 mg of ibuprofen every 6 hours for fever  control.
antihistamines  have an important role in treating allergy reactions, such as hay fever or  seasonal allergy problems.
it is highest at 4 p.m.  99.9 degrees f (37.72 degrees c.) maximum oral.
if the patient has taken these medicines, check  the label contents before giving additional medicine like tylenol or ibuprofen  to treat fever.
for our purposes today, lets alter that slightly- to properly treat a fever, you must take a temperature.
internet information should never take the place of your physicians  instructions.
do not give aspirin to children or teenagers!
internet information should never take the place of your physicians instructions.
it is supplied to help those that cannot reach their physican in person or by telephone in times of illness.
some sport drinks and pedialyte-type replacement fluids come in shelf stable powder form, and at least one can makes a good addition to a prep shelf.
dont give ibuprofen to children under two years of age without your physicians approval.
most physicians do not recommend them for treating cold and flu, where no allergy component is happening.
take this  opportunity to check your thermometer.
even after tylenol administration it is unusual but possible for the fever to rise higher and need additional treatment may be needed.
a thermometer can spread infection when its used between people.
water, juices (low acid work best, half strength for children) or half strength sport drinks work well.
recheck the temperature any time the patients behavior changes, they have  chills or “feel hot”.
the internal body temperature of a bird is approximately 108 degrees  f. the h5n1 strain of influenza survives in this environment.
three hours later, check the temperature again.
the patients infected with avian influenza (h5n1) have had symptoms of cough ,diarrhea, fever, sore throat, pneumonia and acute repiratory distress syndrome (ards).
give plenty of cold things to drink.
the safest way to prevent cross infection through thermometer use is to have one for each family member, labelled with their name.
pedialyte (name brand) and similar rehydration liquids help replace other nutrients lost in fever.
just make sure that 6 hours passes between times that medicine is given again.
if over 100.0 degrees f. (37.77 degrees c.), administer ibuprofen.
some sport drinks and  pedialyte-type replacement fluids come in shelf stable powder form, and at  least one can makes a good addition to a prep shelf.
although  based on “fever care guides” usually given patients in emergency  department settings, you should attempt to discuss fever care with your  physician or healthcare provider before following the information in this page.
it might result in a dangerous overdose of the medicine.
one of the important items you should have in your home medicine cabinet is  a fever thermometer.
in the writers experience, some doctors recommend that any child with a  history of febrile seizues should have their temperatures checked frequently  whenever they are sick.
ice pops are often well taken by children who may not drink a bottle or cups otherwise.
this can happen with  severe diarrhea, especially when there is vomiting too.
disclaimer: nothing in this fever care page should take the place of your healthcare providers instructions.
ask the provider if ibuprofen is safe  for the patient to use for fever control.
encourage fluids in small amounts  frequently to a febrile person who is not drinking well on their own.
then add a new one and/or a back up to your shopping list.
this technique can be  used for children or adults.
most over the counter tablets are 200 mg.
ask the provider if ibuprofen is safe for the patient to use for fever control.
the fever is 102.0 degrees f (38.88 degrees c.).
because they come in different strengths check the label for dosages.
any temprature elevations, even if below 101 degrees f.  (38.33 degrees c.), should be treated to supress the sudden spike that might  trigger a seizure.
check the temperature three  hours later.
this assure that neither medicine is given more  often than every six hours, but the patient recieves a fever control medicine  every three hours.
an oral themometer is fine for most adults.
this assure that neither medicine is given more often than every six hours, but the patient recieves a fever control medicine every three hours.
just make sure that 6 hours passes  between times that medicine is given again.
there is a truism in modern medicine that few would dispute: to find a  fever, you must take a temperature.
at 3 pm, check  the temperature.
ice pops  are often well taken by children who may not drink a bottle or cups otherwise.
heavier covers prevent the radiation of heat and slow down temperature reduction.
for fever over 104 degeees do this also: sponge person while sitting in a tub of lukewarm (just over your own body temperture, not cold water!)
call you doctor or healthcare provider before giving other medicine if you are unsure.
for adults and children over 95 lbs., use two tablets (650 mg or 1000 mg  total dose).
normal body temperatures: axillary (armpit)- 97.6 degrees f. 36.44 degrees c. oral- 98.6 degrees f. 37 degrees c. rectal- 99.6 degrees f. 37.55 degrees c. body temperatures go up and down throughout the day.
instead of storing compound medicines, consider single ones (for example, acetaminophen, ibuprofen, for fever control and pain relief; guafenisen for cough; and pseudoephedrine tablets for decongestant relief) for your prep shelf.
you can also apply  cool water soaked towels to the person if they cannot get in a tub.
in case of vomiting acetaminophen can also be administered by rectal  suppository.
tylenol dosing: do not use more than every four hours unless directed by a healthcare provider 611 pounds 40 mg 1217 pounds 80 mg 1823 pounds 120 mg 2435 pounds 160 mg 3647 pounds 240 mg 4859 pounds 320 mg 6071 pounds 400 mg 7295 pounds 480 mg 96 pounds and over 650 mg adult- 650 to 1000 mg
dehydration results when the body loses more liquid than it takes in.
if over 100.0 degrees f.(37.77  degrees c.), administer acetaminophen.
give acetaminophen (tylenol) for fever over 101.0 degrees f (38.33 degrees c.).
if the fever is still over 100.0 degrees, administer the second medicine.
there is a truism in modern medicine that few would dispute: to find a fever, you must take a temperature.
if chills or shivering, use a light blanket.
this technique helps prevent sudden fever rise when a single medicine is wearing off, but it is not yet time to adminster another dose.
keep them refridgerated before use.
it lasts longer than tylenol- closer to six hours than four.
normal body temperatures: axillary (armpit)- 97.6 degrees f. 36.44  degrees c. oral- 98.6 degrees f. 37 degrees c. rectal- 99.6 degrees f.  37.55 degrees c. body temperatures go up and down throughout the day.
if the fever is still over  100.0 degrees, administer the second medicine.
in the writers experience, some doctors recommend that any child with a history of febrile seizues should have their temperatures checked frequently whenever they are sick.
mercury thermometers are no longer available because of the health risk posed by the metal released by broken glass.
children over 20 kg (44 lbs) can take one adult advil  (200 mg).
you can also apply cool water soaked towels to the person if they cannot get in a tub.
oxygen requirements increase 7  percent for every 1 degree f increase in body temperature over 98.6 degrees f.
in fact, it may serve an important purpose- most bacteria and  viruses that infect humans find it hard to replicate at higher than normal  human body temperatures.
if that is unrealistic in your  circumstance, then know how to effectively clean it between uses and people.
check  the temperature, administer the medine by the correct dose for age/weight.
the safest  way to prevent cross infection through thermometer use is to have one for each  family member, labelled with their name.
give acetaminophen (tylenol) for fever over 101.0 degrees f (38.33 degrees  c.).
the human body needs water  to maintain enough blood and other fluids to function properly.
take with crackers or milk if  possible, or use tylenol.
start over whenever  the fever rises again.
the authors, editors and members or readers of the flu wiki are not responsible  for any negative outcome of persons reading and using the information in this  page.
even after tylenol administration it is unusual  but possible for the fever to rise higher and need additional treatment may be  needed.
the main danger from fever is rapid dehydration-
the patients infected with avian influenza (h5n1) have had symptoms of cough ,diarrhea, fever, sore throat, pneumonia and acute repiratory distress syndrome  (ards).
determine if your healthcare provider approves  this technique before using it.
most physicians recommend 600 mg of ibuprofen every 6 hours for fever control.
call  your 911 or emergency response phone number.
one of the important items you should have in your home medicine cabinet is a fever thermometer.
antihistamines have an important role in treating allergy reactions, such as hay fever or seasonal allergy problems.
to alternate medicines, start with either acetaminophen or tylenol.
call your 911 or emergency response phone number.
disclaimer: nothing in this fever care page should take the place of your  healthcare providers instructions.
48–59 pounds 10 ml (2 tsp) 60–74 pounds 12.5 ml (2.5 tsp) 75–95 pounds 15 ml (3 tsp) over 95 pounds, may use 2 tabs advil adult- 400 to 600 mg every six hours as needed \\ page last  modified on april 30, 2006, at 02:47 am by fredness view
if the patient has liver disease or illness unless approved by their healthcare provider.
if the  person starts shivering violently (chills) stop and try again in 20 mins.
they can “dry  up” mucous, making it harder to cough or sneeze out; thus worsening  breathing.
instead of storing compound medicines, consider single ones (for example,  acetaminophen, ibuprofen, for fever control and pain relief; guafenisen for  cough; and pseudoephedrine tablets for decongestant relief) for your prep  shelf.
it can also happen in  very serious illness, when a person is too sick to take much food or liquid.
after four hours, recheck the temperature and readminister acetaminophen if needed.
this  technique helps prevent sudden fever rise when a single medicine is wearing  off, but it is not yet time to adminster another dose.
allowing a fever to continue untreated will not be beneficial in a bird flu infection.
they can dry up mucous, making it harder to cough or sneeze out; thus worsening breathing.
although based on fever care guides usually given patients in emergency department settings, you should attempt to discuss fever care with your physician or healthcare provider before following the information in this page.
it can be used according to label directions by weight (max dose 10 mg/kg every six hours).
treating a fever reduces the chance that a febrile seizure will occur.
if the fever is still over 100.0 degrees, administer the first  medicine.
geminitwo 10 powered by pmwiki maintained by pogge fever care
the authors, editors and members or readers of the flu wiki are not responsible for any negative outcome of persons reading and using the information in this page.
for example if a fever is 103.6 degrees f (39.77 degrees c) there is a 35  percent increase in the body’s need for oxygen.
good thermometers are available inexpensively in big box stores and many pharmacies.
recheck the temperature any time the patients behavior changes, they have chills or feel hot.
if over 100.0 degrees f.(37.77 degrees c.), administer acetaminophen.
it can also happen in very serious illness, when a person is too sick to take much food or liquid.
“mothers touch” on forehead can  certainly alert you to an elevated temperature- but is not reliable to prove  the absence of fever, nor the best way to track your efforts to reduce one.
anticipate that the thermometers available will be electronic.
check the temperature, administer the medine by the correct dose for age/weight.
it is highest at 4 p.m. 99.9 degrees f (37.72 degrees c.) maximum oral.
you should have at least one, and a back up in case that one doesnt work.
because of this, most physicans now recommend that we balance the risks and benefits of fever by only treating and attempting to reduce fevers greater than 101 degrees f, 38.33 degrees c. fever can increase the need for oxygen.
if the patient has taken these medicines, check the label contents before giving additional medicine like tylenol or ibuprofen to treat fever.
this can happen with severe diarrhea, especially when there is vomiting too.
if the fever is still over 100.0 degrees, administer the first medicine.
encourage fluids in small amounts frequently to a febrile person who is not drinking well on their own.
then add a new one and/or a back up to  your shopping list.
in most cases, although frightening to watch; they are not dangerous in and of themselves.
the internal body temperature of a bird is approximately 108 degrees f. the h5n1 strain of influenza survives in this environment.
if you have one on your shelf long term, the  internal battery may have failed, rendering the unit useless.
because of this, most physicans now recommend that we balance the risks and  benefits of fever by only treating and attempting to reduce fevers greater than  101 degrees f, 38.33 degrees c. fever can increase the need for oxygen.
tylenol dosing: do not use more than every four hours unless directed  by a healthcare provider 6–11 pounds 40 mg 12–17 pounds 80 mg 18–23 pounds  120 mg 24–35 pounds 160 mg 36–47 pounds 240 mg 48–59 pounds 320 mg 60–71 pounds 400 mg 72–95 pounds  480 mg 96 pounds and over 650 mg adult- 650 to 1000 mg every four  hours as needed ibuprofen suspension ( 100 mg/5 ml) dosing: do not use more than every  six hours unless directed by a healthcare provider 24–35 pounds 5 ml (1 tsp.)
if emergency medical services/  emergency department care is available, most physicians would consider seizures  a reason to call for ambulance transport to the hospital for evaluation.
36–47 pounds 7.5 ml (1.5 tsp.)
for adults and children over 95 lbs., use two tablets (650 mg or 1000 mg total dose).
some children will have febrile seizures- grand mal or tonic-clonic type seizures brought on by a rapid rise in body temperature.