a digital thermometer can be used for both rectal and oral temperature  taking.
is excessively cranky, fussy or irritable.
do not exceed the  recommended dose.
instructions carefully.
this will help straighten the ear  canal, and make a clear path inside the ear to the ear drum.
the armpit (axillary) method is usually used to check forfever in newborns and young children but is not as accurate as a rectal temperature.
k1g 4j8 phone: 613-526-9397, fax: 613-526-3332 copyright © 2012 -
if the fever is due to chickenpox, influenza or certain other viral infections, taking aspirin can increase the risk of reye’s syndrome.
babies younger than 6 months old should see a doctor when they have  a fever.
canadian paediatric society www.cps.ca - info@cps.ca this site complies to the honcode standard for trustworthy health information:verify here.
you can also use ibuprofen, which is found in products such as advil and  motrin.
medication is not always needed to reduce a child’s temperature.
older children can be treated at home, as long as they get enough liquids and seem well otherwise.
though quick to use, the ear (tympanic) method can produce temperature readings that are too low, even when the manufacturer’s directions are followed.
place your baby on his back with his knees bent.
to get an accurate reading of your child’s temperature, you’ll need to make sure it’s done right.
do not exceed the recommended dose.
it’s important that the measurement is accurate.
the normal temperature range varies, depending  on the method you use.
for instance, taking a rectal temperature is still the best way to get an exact reading for children under 2 years of age.
fever strips are not recommended because they do not give accurate  readings.
method normal temperature range the degree of a fever does not tell you how serious your child’s illness is.
choice: 2nd choice: rectum (for an accurate reading) ear, armpit older than  5 years 1st choice: 2nd choice: mouth (for an accurate reading) ear,  armpit temperature-taking tips do not use a mercury thermometer.
home  >when your child is sick > fever and temperature taking
babies younger than 6 months old should see a doctor when they have a fever.
medication is not always needed to reduce a child’s  temperature.
there are several ways to take your child’s temperature: rectal method (by the rectum or ‘bum’)
the normal temperature range varies, depending on the method you use.
afever will not hurt your child.
products for taking temporal artery temperature at home have not yet been shown to be accurate or reliable enough.
when your child is sick with an infection (caused by either bacteria or a virus), it is common to have a fever.
it’s important  that the measurement is accurate.
sponging your child with  tepid (lukewarm) water, alcohol baths and rubs are not recommended.
if an axillary temperature does not show afever but your  child feels warm and seems unwell, take a rectal measurement.
what is a normal temperature?
leave the thermometer in place for about 1 minute, until you hear the  “beep.”
usually, it goes away after 72 hours (3 days).
do not use an oral thermometer to take a rectal temperature, or a rectal  thermometer for oral temperature taking.
use this chart to help you decide which method to use.
to get an accurate reading of your child’s temperature,  you’ll need to make sure it’s done right.
squeeze and hold down the button for one second.
keep your child comfortable, and offer plenty of fluids.
it’s made of unbreakable plastic, is easy to read and measures  temperature quickly.
however, they should also see a doctor if their fever lasts for more than  72 hours.
a child or teenager with a fever should not be given aspirin
gently insert the thermometer until the ear canal is fully sealed off.
but don’t take off all your child’s  clothes, because she may become too cold and start shivering, which produces  more body heat, causing the temperature to rise again.
but don’t take off all your child’s clothes, because she may become too cold and start shivering, which produces more body heat, causing the temperature to rise again.
if an axillary temperature does not show afever but your child feels warm and seems unwell, take a rectal measurement.
for more information: temperature measurement in  paediatrics reviewed by: cps community paediatrics committee last updated: april 2008
it is not considered to be as  reliable or accurate as rectal temperature taking.
this  is a very serious condition that can damage the liver and brain.
what can i do if my child has a fever?
be sure to follow the directions on the package.
use a clean probe tip each time, and follow the manufacturer’s
ibuprofen can be given every 6 to 8 hours — up to 4 times in a 24-hour period.
is excessively sleepy, lethargic or does not respond.
now that you’ve taken the temperature, check the following chart to see if your child has a fever.
the temperature usually comes down in 1 hour and then rises again, in which case the medication may have to be repeated.
the mouth (oral) method is not recommended for children younger than 5 years old, because it is hard for them to hold the thermometer under their tongue for long enough.
how: rectum this method is the most reliable way to ensure  afever is not missed.
older children can be treated at home, as long as they get enough liquids  and seem well otherwise.
contact your health care provider if your child: has a fever and is less than 6 months old.
the mouth (oral) method is not recommended for  children younger than 5 years old, because it is hard for them to hold the  thermometer under their tongue for long enough.
gently tug on the ear, pulling it back.
do not give ibuprofen to babies under 6 months without first talking to  your doctor.
the right method depends on your child’s age.
method normal temperature  range rectum 36.6°c to 38°c (97.9°f to 100.4°f) mouth 35.5°c to 37.5°c (95.9°f to 99.5°f) armpit  34.7°c to 37.3°c (94.5°f to 99.1°f) ear 35.8°c to  38°c (96.4°f to 100.4°f) the degree of a fever does not tell you how serious your child’s
acetaminophen (such as tylenol, tempra, panadol and others) is a suitable  medication for a fever.
canadian paediatric society
carefully place the tip of the thermometer under your child’s tongue.
clean the thermometer with cool, soapy water and rinse.
if your baby has a fever, remove extra blankets and clothing so heat can leave her body and help lower the body temperature.
choice: 2nd choice: rectum  (for an accurate reading) armpit between 2 and 5 years 1st
for instance, taking a rectal temperature is  still the best way to get an exact reading for children under 2 years of age.
do not give more than 5 doses in 24 hours.
sponging your child with tepid (lukewarm) water, alcohol baths and rubs are not recommended.
acetaminophen (such as tylenol, tempra, panadol and others) is a suitable medication for a fever.
do  not give more than 5 doses in 24 hours.
canadian paediatric society 2305 st. laurent blvd., ottawa, ont.
ibuprofen can be given  every 6 to 8 hours — up to 4 times in a 24-hour period.
after about 1 minute, you will hear the beep.
how a child acts is usually a better sign.
ibuprofen should only be given if your child is drinking reasonably well.
now that you’ve taken the temperature, check the following chart to  see if your child has a fever.
there may be variations in treatment that your physician may recommend based on individual facts and circumstances.
however, they should also see a doctor if their fever lasts for more than 72 hours.
this information should not be used as a substitute for the medical care  and advice of your physician.
age  recommended technique birth to 2 years 1st
a child with a mild infection can have a high fever, while a child with a severe infection might have nofever at all.
remove the thermometer and read the temperature.
unless your doctor says otherwise, parents can give the dose recommended on the package every 4 hours until the child’s temperature comes down.
a child with a mild  infection can have a high fever, while a child with a severe infection might  have nofever at all.
the temperature usually comes down in 1 hour and then  rises again, in which case the medication may have to be repeated.
the armpit (axillary) method is usually used  to check forfever in newborns and young children but is not as accurate as a  rectal temperature.
although taking a temperature under the armpit isn’t as reliable, it may  let you know whether your child has a fever.
oral method (by the mouth) axillary method (under the armpit) temporal artery method (forehead) tympanic method (in the ear)
gently insert the thermometer in the rectum, about 2.5 cm (1 inch),  holding it in place with your fingers.
there are several ways to take your child’s temperature: the right method depends on your child’s age.
make sure your child’s arm is tucked snugly against her body.
though quick to use, the ear (tympanic) method  can produce temperature readings that are too low, even when the  manufacturer’s directions are followed.
products for taking temporal  artery temperature at home have not yet been shown to be accurate or reliable  enough.
cover the silver tip with petroleum jelly (such as vaseline).
it is not considered to be as reliable or accurate as rectal temperature taking.
has a fever for more than 72 hours.
how: rectum this method is the most reliable way to ensure afever is not missed.
use a rectal or oral thermometer.
this information should not be used as a substitute for the medical care and advice of your physician.
place the tip of the thermometer in the centre of the armpit.
fever and temperature taking when your child is sick with an infection (caused by either bacteria or a  virus), it is common to have a fever.
with your child’s mouth closed, leave the thermometer in place for  about 1 minute, until you hear the beep.
[acetylsalicylic acid (asa)] if the fever is due to chickenpox, influenza or certain other viral  infections, taking aspirin can increase the risk of reye’s syndrome.
if it breaks, you might be exposed to  this toxic substance.
unless your doctor says otherwise, parents can give the  dose recommended on the package every 4 hours until the child’s  temperature comes down.
in fact, the best reason for giving your child medicine is not to reduce the fever but to relieve any aches and pains.
clean the thermometer.
although taking a temperature under the armpit isn’t as reliable, it may let you know whether your child has a fever.
this is a very serious condition that can damage the liver and brain.
ear thermometers are expensive and can be hard to use.
is persistently wheezing or coughing.
if your baby has a  fever, remove extra blankets and clothing so heat can leave her body and help  lower the body temperature.
there may be variations in treatment that your  physician may recommend based on individual facts and circumstances.
usually,  it goes away after 72 hours (3 days).
has a fever and a rash or any other signs of illness that worry you.
for more information: temperature measurement in paediatrics reviewed by: cps community paediatrics committee last updated: april 2008
you can also use ibuprofen, which is found in products such as advil and motrin.