tell your doctor about all the prescription and over-the-counter medications you use.
use a sunscreen (minimum spf 15) and wear protective clothing if you  must be out in the sun.
this risk will increase the longer you use an nsaid.
fda pregnancy category c.
however, taking ibuprofen during the last 3 months of pregnancy may result in birth defects.
do not take ibuprofen during pregnancy unless your  doctor has told you to.
it is not known whether ibuprofen passes into breast milk or if it could harm a nursing baby.
do not use any other over-the-counter cold, allergy, or pain medication  without first asking your doctor or pharmacist.
do not drink alcohol while taking ibuprofen.
if you take certain products together you may accidentally take too much of this type of medication.
back to top tell your doctor if you are taking an antidepressant such as citalopram (celexa), duloxetine (cymbalta), escitalopram (lexapro), fluoxetine (prozac, sarafem, symbyax), fluvoxamine (luvox), paroxetine (paxil), sertraline (zoloft), or venlafaxine (effexor).
it is not known whether ibuprofen is harmful to  an unborn baby.
multum's drug information is an informational resource designed to assist licensed healthcare practitioners in caring for their patients and/or to serve consumers viewing this service as a supplement to, and not a substitute for, the expertise, skill, knowledge and judgment of healthcare practitioners.
do not take ibuprofen during pregnancy unless your doctor has told you to.
you may report side effects to fda at 1-800-fda-1088.
information on patientslikeme.com does not constitute medical advice.
before taking ibuprofen, tell your doctor if you are allergic to any drugs, or if you have: if you have any of these conditions, you may need a dose adjustment or special tests to safely take ibuprofen.
alcohol can increase your risk of stomach bleeding caused by ibuprofen.
ibuprofen can make your skin more sensitive to sunlight and sunburn may result.
if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and wait until your next regularly scheduled dose.
do not give this medicine to a child without the advice of a doctor.
back to top get emergency medical help if you have any of these signs of an allergic reaction: hives; difficulty breathing; swelling of your face, lips, tongue, or throat.
stop taking ibuprofen and seek medical attention or call your doctor at once if you have any of these serious side effects: less serious side effects may include: this is not a complete list of side effects and others may occur.
less serious side effects may include: upset stomach, mild heartburn, diarrhea, constipation; bloating, gas;
do not use this medicine just before or after  having heart bypass surgery (also called coronary artery bypass graft, or cabg).
ibuprofen can make your skin more sensitive to sunlight and sunburn may  result.
do not take extra  medicine to make up the missed dose.
do not use this medication without telling your doctor if  you are breast-feeding a baby.
drug information contained herein may be time sensitive.
the maximum amount of ibuprofen for adults is 800 milligrams per dose or 3200 mg per day (4 maximum doses).
it is not known whether ibuprofen is harmful to an unborn baby.
do not use this medicine just before or after having heart bypass surgery (also called coronary artery bypass graft, or cabg).
sign in this medicine can increase your risk of life-threatening heart or circulation problems, including heart attack or stroke.
however, taking ibuprofen during the last 3 months of pregnancy  may result in birth defects.
back to top instructions seek emergency medical attention if you think you have used too much of  this medicine.
since ibuprofen is sometimes taken as needed, you may not be on a dosing schedule.
ibuprofen can make aspirin less effective in protecting your heart and  blood vessels.
avoid exposure to sunlight or artificial uv rays (sunlamps or tanning  beds).
ibuprofen may also be used for other purposes not listed in this medication guide.
this includes black, bloody, or tarry stools, or coughing up blood or vomit that looks like coffee grounds.
this includes vitamins, minerals, herbal products, and drugs prescribed by other doctors.
if you must use both medications, take the ibuprofen at least 8 hours before or 30 minutes after you take the aspirin (non-enteric coated form).
use only the smallest amount of ibuprofen needed to get relief from your pain, swelling, or fever.
if you take certain products together you may  accidentally take too much of this type of medication.
these  conditions can be fatal and gastrointestinal effects can occur without warning  at any time while you are taking an nsaid.
copyright 1996-2004 cerner multum, inc.
many medicines available over  the counter contain aspirin or other medicines similar to ibuprofen (such as  ketoprofen or naproxen).
do not take more of this medication than is recommended.
taking any of these drugs with ibuprofen may cause you to bruise or bleed easily.
before taking ibuprofen, tell your doctor if you are taking any of the following drugs: this list is not complete and there may be other drugs that can interact with ibuprofen.
nsaids can also increase your risk of serious effects on the stomach or  intestines, including bleeding or perforation (forming of a hole).
older adults may have an even  greater risk of these serious gastrointestinal side effects.
ibuprofen works by reducing hormones that cause inflammation and pain in the body.
since ibuprofen is sometimes taken as needed, you may not be on a dosing  schedule.
read the label of any  other medicine you are using to see if it contains aspirin, ibuprofen,  ketoprofen, or naproxen.
remember, keep this and all other medicines out of the reach of children, never share your medicines with others, and use this medication only for the indication prescribed.
use a sunscreen (minimum spf 15) and wear protective clothing if you must be out in the sun.
if you have questions about the drugs you are taking, check with your doctor, nurse or pharmacist.
before taking ibuprofen, tell your doctor if you are allergic to any drugs,  or if you have: a history of heart attack, stroke, or blood clot; heart disease, congestive heart failure, high blood pressure; a history of stomach ulcers or bleeding; asthma; polyps in your nose; or liver or kidney disease, a bleeding or blood clotting disorder; or if you smoke.
if you must use both medications, take the ibuprofen at least 8  hours before or 30 minutes after you take the aspirin (non-enteric coated form).
call your doctor for medical advice about side effects.
ibuprofen can make aspirin less effective in protecting your heart and blood vessels.
avoid exposure to sunlight or artificial uv rays (sunlamps or tanning beds).
if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed  dose and wait until your next regularly scheduled dose.
back to top seek emergency medical attention if you think you have used too much of this medicine.
these conditions can be fatal and gastrointestinal effects can occur without warning at any time while you are taking an nsaid.
this risk will increase  the longer you use an nsaid.
this medicine can also increase your risk of serious effects on the stomach or intestines, including bleeding or perforation (forming of a hole).
if you have any of these conditions, you may need a dose adjustment or  special tests to safely take ibuprofen.
avoid taking ibuprofen if you are taking aspirin to prevent stroke or heart attack.
it is not known whether ibuprofen passes into breast milk or if it could  harm a nursing baby.
an overdose of ibuprofen can cause damage to your stomach or intestines.
back to treatment report ibuprofen is in a group of drugs called nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (nsaids).
seek emergency medical help if you have symptoms of heart or circulation problems, such as chest pain, weakness, shortness of breath, slurred speech, or problems with vision or balance.
this risk will increase the longer you use ibuprofen.
overdose symptoms may include nausea, vomiting, stomach pain,  drowsiness, black or bloody stools, coughing up blood, shallow breathing,  fainting, or coma.
multum does not assume any responsibility for any aspect of healthcare administered with the aid of information multum provides.
back to top side effects get emergency medical help if you have any of these signs of an allergic  reaction: hives; difficulty breathing; swelling of your face, lips, tongue, or  throat.
nsaids can also increase your risk of serious effects on the stomach or intestines, including bleeding or perforation (forming of a hole).
do not start using a new medication without telling your doctor.
these conditions can be fatal and gastrointestinal effects can occur without warning at any time while you are taking ibuprofen.
if you are taking the medication regularly, take the missed dose as  soon as you remember.
do not use this medication without telling your doctor if you are breast-feeding a baby.
do not use any other over-the-counter cold, allergy, or pain medication without first asking your doctor or pharmacist.
the information contained herein is not intended to cover all possible uses, directions, precautions, warnings, drug interactions, allergic reactions, or adverse effects.
stop taking ibuprofen and seek medical attention or call your doctor at  once if you have any of these serious side effects: chest pain, weakness, shortness of breath, slurred speech, problems with  vision or balance; black, bloody, or tarry stools; coughing up blood or vomit that looks like coffee grounds; swelling or rapid weight gain; urinating less than usual or not at all; nausea, stomach pain, low fever, loss of appetite, dark urine,  clay-colored stools, jaundice (yellowing of the skin or eyes); fever, sore throat, and headache with a severe blistering, peeling, and  red skin rash; bruising, severe tingling, numbness, pain, muscle weakness; or fever, headache, neck stiffness, chills, increased sensitivity to light,  purple spots on the skin, and/or seizure (convulsions).
revision date 8/23/04 © 2005-2012 patientslikeme.
do not take extra medicine to make up the missed dose.
information found on patientslikeme is based on reports from patientslikeme members.
ibuprofen is used to reduce fever and treat pain or inflammation caused by many conditions such as headache, toothache, back pain, arthritis, menstrual cramps, or minor injury.
do not use this medication if you are allergic to ibuprofen, aspirin or  other nsaids.
read the label of any other medicine you are using to see if it contains aspirin, ibuprofen, ketoprofen, or naproxen.
older adults may have an even greater risk of these serious gastrointestinal side effects.
overdose symptoms may include nausea, vomiting, stomach pain, drowsiness, black or bloody stools, coughing up blood, shallow breathing, fainting, or coma.
multum's drug information does not endorse drugs, diagnose patients or recommend therapy.
call your doctor at once if you have symptoms of bleeding in your stomach or intestines.
interactions precautions taking an nsaid can increase your risk of life-threatening heart or  circulation problems, including heart attack or stroke.
avoid taking ibuprofen if you are taking aspirin to prevent stroke or heart  attack.
alcohol can increase the risk  of stomach bleeding caused by ibuprofen.
multum information has been compiled for use by healthcare practitioners and consumers in the united states and therefore multum does not warrant that uses outside of the united states are appropriate, unless specifically indicated otherwise.
do not use this medication if you are allergic to ibuprofen, aspirin or other nsaids.
every effort has been made to ensure that the information provided by cerner multum, inc. ('multum') is accurate, up-to-date, and complete, but no guarantee is made to that effect.
alcohol can increase the risk of stomach bleeding caused by ibuprofen.
taking an nsaid can increase your risk of life-threatening heart or circulation problems, including heart attack or stroke.
many medicines available over the counter contain aspirin or other medicines similar to ibuprofen (such as ketoprofen or naproxen).
the absence of a warning for a given drug or drug combination in no way should be construed to indicate that the drug or drug combination is safe, effective or appropriate for any given patient.
if you are taking the medication regularly, take the missed dose as soon as you remember.