same would be for the use of it in any other illness
after person well and not using it any longer,  boil it in water for 5 minutes before it is washed and used for other things you basically give 1 dose of 1 remedy and wait........
stevens-johnson syndrome and cholestatic hepatitis.
it also found no evidence that the use of prophylactic paracetamol influenced the risk of febrile convulsions.
it is the rapid rise or fall in temperature that causes the seizures/fits in some susceptible children so by the time you are aware of the fever they will either have seized/fitted or not.
children's motrin and advil reactions go to webpage for links to these  articles the association of acetaminophen, aspirin, and ibuprofen with respiratory  disease and lung function fever & seizures it is the rapid rise or fall in temperature that  causes the seizures/fits in some susceptible children so by the time you are  aware of the fever they will either have seized/fitted or not.
give another teaspoon out of this 3.
the vital  force doesn't do as well with the same potency over and over and that is the  way you would do it if you used them dry print this out and keep handy with your remedies.
if improvement and then same symptoms come back - give another dose of same - 1. to give another dose, take the water bottle you have and succuss it - this is strong downward thrusts from about 2 feet up - like a judge hitting a gavel do this 10 times on a book or something (you are succussing to slight raise the potency of what you have started with - it seems that the vital force does better with a little higher potency each time, than the same potency) - 2.
most fevers are good for  children and help the body fight infection.
we aren't treating the fever.
the decision to vaccinate and how you implement that decision is yours and yours alone.
there  is very limited evidence regarding the effect of paracetamol on activity or  other areas contained within the clinical question, which showed inconsistent  effects.
the second review assessed 12 studies of the effects of paracetamol for treating children in relation to fever clearance time, febrile convulsions and resolution of associated symptoms.
don't need to  refrigerate unless keeping overnight and usually this will not be the case.
- fever is qualified as a rectal temperature above 38 degrees c. (100.4 degree fahrenheit) -there are no injurious effects of fever below 41.7 degrees c. (107.06 degree fahrenheit) - fever is a useful bodily reaction.
ibuprofen-associated aseptic meningitis multiple documents - acute vanishing bile duct syndrome after ibuprofen  therapy in a child.
use a plastic spoon (if you use a metal spoon, save it for use only for  this person while being treated.
(for an infant crush if possible or just put in a little water in a cup and let melt and then give.)
fever fever articles is fear of fever hurting our children?
i have added the fahrenheit degrees official guidelines for dutch family doctors in case of fever in children: - a realistic notion about fever will make it more easy for parents to deal with children having fever.
if you have been helped by the information on these pages, please considering donating some to help with my time to research - click above paypal link.
by edda west,  vran, canada fever: when will they ever learn?
- the main reason for taking the  temperature is knowing whether or not there is a fever.
one study suggested that  parents could identify some improvement in activity and alertness after the  administration of paracetamol, but not in mood, comfort, appetite or fluid  intake.
i have added the fahrenheit degrees official guidelines for dutch family doctors in case of fever in children: - a realistic notion about fever will make it more easy for parents to  deal with children having fever.
after person well and not using it any longer, boil it in water for 5 minutes before it is washed and used for other things - you basically give 1 dose of 1 remedy and wait........
we are treating the child looking at all the symptoms present including the fever.
i post this information for the remedy pictures he lists again, find the one remedy that matches the symptom picture the best, especially paying attention to the emotional state of the child while ill administering homeopathic remedies put your dry pillules, tablets, in water to administer - see below best not to take them dry.
tending the flame by philip incao, m.d. fever in children - a blessing in disguise by linda b. white and sunny mavor, originally printed in mothering magazine - fever is not a disease but rather a symptom of an illness.
any  fever that rises suddenly to high temperatures, such 103 to 104, needs  immediate professional help, as this can be a sign of a serious condition.
below is a (quick) translation, by one of my list members, of the official policy guidelines for dutch family doctors in case of fever in children, given by their organisation and published on internet.
assessment and initial management in children younger than 5 years clinical guideline, may 2007, funded to produce guidelines for the nhs by nice (uk)
there is no evidence that the use of antipyretic agents reduces the  incidence of febrile convulsions.
if the fever is not treated, this does not mean  the temperature will keep rising.
applying cold compresses and cold sponging of the child is not meaningful.
(url no longer works)
- use a plastic spoon (if you use a metal spoon, save it for use only for this person while being treated.
the  remedies given here are for simple, uncomplicated fever, as any other type of  fever may need professional attention.
- a. if improvement, don't give anymore - b.
if you get near the end of the bottle, keep at least one teaspoon in  there and add 6 ozs more of water to keep it going, as you have been raising  the potency each time and don't want to start over.
stevens-johnson syndrome plus toxic hepatitis due to ibuprofen.
- fever is maligned and misunderstood.
if you have been helped by the information on these pages, please  considering donating some to help with my time to research - click above paypal  link.
- the main reason for taking the temperature is knowing whether or not there is a fever.
assessment and initial management in  children younger than 5 years clinical guideline, may 2007, funded to produce  guidelines for the nhs by nice (uk)
improvement you may see first is in mental/emotional symptoms, or sleep,  or general well being, or thirst or appetite - then the physical symptoms may  improve later if you are using 6x or something, may have to repeat oftener than  a 30 c as the energy 'gets used up', in a way.
use the following definitions to help put your child's level of fever into perspective: 100-102°f (37.8 - 39°c) -- low grade fevers and beneficial 102-104°f (39 - 40°c) -- moderate grade fevers and beneficial above 104°f (40°c) -- high fevers and cause discomfort, but harmless above 105°f (40.6°c) -- higher risk of bacterial infections above 107°f (41.7°c) -- the fever itself can be harmful - dutch (netherlands) guidelines: just so everyone can put the fever issue in perspective.
if these lists  aren't complete enough, may need to consult a homeopath, take one of my  classes, or find other remedy lists fevers in children do not go by her dosage information - use the  information i post at the end of this section as to how to give a remedy for a  minor acute illness or first aid fevers (homeopathic remedies) he errs on the side of caution in the  paragraphs in the first part of the page.
it is sufficient to take the temperature once a day.
gdg translation the gdg noted that, from the evidence, antipyretic agents do not appear to be effective in the prevention of febrile convulsions.
we  aren't trying to make the fever go down.
indeed giving  tyelenol/calpol and lowering temperature rapidly could cause the convulsions.
have person hold in their mouth for a few seconds if possible.
even if a child does have a seizure/fit, there is no evidence that it causes any long term damage, it is just an unpleasant symptom, particularly for the paren seizures from fevers don't cause brain injury feverish illness in children -
recurrent aseptic meningitis due to different non-steroidal  anti-inflammatory drugs including rofecoxib ibuprofen-induced aseptic meningitis in individuals with hiv.
fever charts - from stanford childrens hospital site, in california.
we are treating the child looking at  all the symptoms present including the fever.
but best to give in the way i  describe below.
by edda west, vran, canada fever: when will they ever learn?
it found no evidence that the prophylactic use of  antipyretics has any effect in reducing the incidence of febrile convulsions.
- fever is  qualified as a rectal temperature above 38 degrees c. (100.4 degree fahrenheit) -there are no injurious effects of fever below 41.7 degrees c. (107.06  degree fahrenheit) - fever is a useful bodily reaction.
you have to make your own decision on that.
if these lists aren't complete enough, may need to consult a homeopath, take one of my classes, or find other remedy lists - fevers in children do not go by her dosage information - use the information i post at the end of this section as to how to give a remedy for a minor acute illness or first aid - fevers (homeopathic remedies)
- actively lowering the body temperature is not neccessary.
he errs on the side of caution in the paragraphs in the first part of the page.
if the heat is  allowed to drain away, fever will not rise above 41.7 degrees c. (107.06 degree  fahrenheit) - the increase of the body temperature seems to be important  in fighting the disease.
there is very limited evidence regarding the effect of paracetamol on activity or other areas contained within the clinical question, which showed inconsistent effects.
any information obtained here is not to be construed as medical or legal advice.
if no improvement on one dose of 30c in water, repeat it in 20-30 minutes; if no improvement on one dose if 200c in water, repeat it in 1 hour can do this 2 or 3 times with 200c or 30c. if no improvement after that probably wrong remedy - improvement you may see first is in mental/emotional symptoms, or sleep, or general well being, or thirst or appetite - then the physical symptoms may improve later if you are using 6x or something, may have to repeat oftener than a 30 c as the energy 'gets used up', in a way.
you have to make  your own decision on that.
- temperature should be measured per rectum.
it also found no evidence that the use of  prophylactic paracetamol influenced the risk of febrile convulsions.
he is way  to cautious in my opinion here - "any fever that is over 101 f for more  than a sort period of time needs to be assessed by a medical professional.
we aren't trying to make the fever go down.
if improvement, don't give anymore b.
there is no evidence that the use of antipyretic agents reduces the incidence of febrile convulsions.
the remedy helps the child to heal and the fever goes when the healing happens and the fever is no longer needed find the one remedy that matches the symptom picture best.
" i don't agree that 103 or 104 needs professional help unless prolonged fever and no progress being made or other serious symptoms.
the decision to vaccinate and how you implement that decision is  yours and yours alone.
(for an infant crush if possible or just put in a little  water in a cup and let melt and then give.)
mostly you will never get  to this point as you will only be repeating 3 or 4 times.
- the extent to which  the child is sick is far more important than the temperature of the fever.
the vital force of the body does better if you  put them in water and then raise the potency a little each time.
- stevens-johnson syndrome plus toxic hepatitis due to ibuprofen.
- in general, fever does not need treatment.
take tylenol at your own risk by: dr. mercola glutathione nac: stanford san francisco study report shows blood glutathione  improvement, possible survival benefit increase your blood pressure with tylenol motrin/advil/ibuprofen dangers lawsuit claims children's motrin causes severe side effects motrin is a  brand name for ibuprofen (advil, etc) ibuprofen-induced aseptic meningitis in a previously healthy patient.
childhood fevers frighten grownups.
- childhood fevers frighten grownups.
there is no use  in measuring each change.
there is no use in measuring each change.
use the following definitions to  help put your child's level of fever into perspective: 100-102°f (37.8  - 39°c) -- low grade fevers and beneficial 102-104°f (39 -  40°c) -- moderate grade fevers and beneficial above 104°f  (40°c) -- high fevers and cause discomfort, but harmless above  105°f (40.6°c) -- higher risk of bacterial infections above  107°f (41.7°c) -- the fever itself can be harmful dutch (netherlands) guidelines: just so everyone can put the fever  issue in perspective.
most fevers are good for children and help the body fight infection.
the first investigated the hypothesis that paracetamol and ibuprofen, used prophylactically, will reduce the incidence of febrile convulsions across a wide variety of conditions.
not all of the world panics at fever.............
if the heat is allowed to drain away, fever will not rise above 41.7 degrees c. (107.06 degree fahrenheit) - the increase of the body temperature seems to be important in fighting the disease.
- cutaneous reactions to nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs.
if improvement and new symptoms that are really a problem and body can't deal with itself - research and find what the new remedy should be (will sometimes use one remedy and shift things and then need a different to finish up) - d.
- recurrent aseptic meningitis due to different non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs including rofecoxib - ibuprofen-induced aseptic meningitis in individuals with hiv.
fever is maligned and misunderstood.
- best to give as an aqueous solution - one or two pillules/tablets in water - put one pillule or tablet in 6 oz of water (use purified, filtered water if possible) in a water bottle used only for this - let dissolve or sit for at least 5 minutes (the remedy coats the pillule which is sucrose or the tablet which is lactose) - shake just a little - take one teaspoon out of water bottle and give to the person.
-  observing the child and registering changes in the childs behaviour are more  important than frequently measuring the temperature.
- stevens-johnson syndrome and cholestatic hepatitis.
- ibuprofen-associated aseptic meningitis - multiple documents - acute vanishing bile duct syndrome after ibuprofen therapy in a child.
generally i suggest you use 30c (unless you have completed a course with  me, then i suggest 200c).
mostly you will never get to this point as you will only be repeating 3 or 4 times.
(url no longer  works)
even if a child does have a seizure/fit, there is no evidence that it  causes any long term damage, it is just an unpleasant symptom, particularly for  the paren seizures from fevers don't cause brain injury feverish illness in children -
seizures from fevers don't cause brain injury glutathione importance - tylenol (calpol) depletes glutathione motrin/advil/ibuprofen dangers - lawsuit claims children's motrin causes
don't need to refrigerate unless keeping overnight and usually this will not be the case.
the remedy helps the child to  heal and the fever goes when the healing happens and the fever is no longer  needed find the one remedy that matches the symptom picture best.
homeopathic treatment of a child with fever homeopathy works very  well in treating an ill child with a fever.
do not treat for chronic or recurring things on your own or with 30c. do not go by what is on the bottle (heaven only knows why fda or whatever makes them say that stuff) - you can give just a dry pillule, but it appears to work better to give in water (aqueous solution) and be able to succuss it between doses - but in a pinch, give as dry.
severe side effects motrin is a brand name for ibuprofen (advil, etc) - ibuprofen-induced aseptic meningitis in a previously healthy patient.
homeopathic treatment of a child with fever homeopathy works very well in treating an ill child with a fever.
see above for info on that.
antipyretics do not fight the disease and at best will make the child feel a bit better.
by hilary butler - from chapter 46
- observing the child and registering changes in the childs behaviour are more important than frequently measuring the temperature.
evidence summary limited evidence was found regarding the use of antipyretic medications in the promotion of wellbeing, activity, eating and drinking, and no evidence of cost-effectiveness.
making an informed choice any information obtained here is not to be construed as medical or  legal advice.
indeed giving tyelenol/calpol and lowering temperature rapidly could cause the convulsions.
tending the flame by philip incao, m.d. fever in children - a blessing in disguise by linda b. white and sunny  mavor, originally printed in mothering magazine fever is not a disease but rather a symptom of an illness.
if using a cup and not a water bottle - better to use water bottle though - stir briskly 10 times and give one teaspoon - c.
if using a cup and not a water bottle - better to use water bottle  though - stir briskly 10 times and give one teaspoon c.
he is way to cautious in my opinion here - "any fever that is over 101 f for more than a sort period of time needs to be assessed by a medical professional.
give another teaspoon out of this - 3.
generally i suggest you use 30c (unless you have completed a course with me, then i suggest 200c).
antipyretics do not fight the  disease and at best will make the child feel a bit better.
- children's motrin and advil reactions go to webpage for links to these articles - the association of acetaminophen, aspirin, and ibuprofen with respiratory disease and lung function fever & seizures
if improvement and then same symptoms come back - give another dose of  same 1. to give another dose, take the water bottle you have and succuss it -  this is strong downward thrusts from about 2 feet up - like a judge hitting a  gavel do this 10 times on a book or something (you are succussing to slight  raise the potency of what you have started with - it seems that the vital force  does better with a little higher potency each time, than the same potency) 2.
if no improvement on one dose of 30c in water, repeat it in 20-30  minutes; if no improvement on one dose if 200c in water, repeat it in 1 hour  can do this 2 or 3 times with 200c or 30c. if no improvement after that  probably wrong remedy
- in principle, no antipyretics are given.
from one prick to another - this appeared in vran newsletter fall 2008
it shows that a fever must be very high before causing damage your child probably has an early virus infection.
one study suggested that parents could identify some improvement in activity and alertness after the administration of paracetamol, but not in mood, comfort, appetite or fluid intake.
- the extent to which the child is sick is far more important than the temperature of the fever.
any fever that rises suddenly to high temperatures, such 103 to 104, needs immediate professional help, as this can be a sign of a serious condition.
the remedies given here are for simple, uncomplicated fever, as any other type of fever may need professional attention.
the vital force doesn't do as well with the same potency over and over and that is the way you would do it if you used them dry print this out and keep handy with your remedies.
throw all away at the end once treatment is over or not needing this  remedy for this illness any longer vaccine bookstore back to main vaccine page please call, write or email for more detailed information  vaccinedangers@gmail.com back to top
- case report: stevens-johnson syndrome and cholestatic hepatitis - drugs causing fixed eruptions: a study of 450 cases other drugs incriminated were tetracycline, metamizole, phenylbutazone, paracetamol, acetylsalicylic acid, mefenamic acid, metronidazole, tinidazole, chlormezanone, amoxycillin, ampicillin, erythromycin, belladonna, griseofulvin, phenobarbitone, diclofenac sodium, indomethacin, ibuprofen, diflunisal, pyrantel pamoate, clindamycin, allopurinol, orphenadrine, and albendazole.
if the fever is not treated, this does not mean the temperature will keep rising.
sadly, the  parents whose kids were having a vaccination reaction and, at doc's or nurse's  suggestion, gave tylenol were thereby exacerbating adverse effects.
from  one prick to another - this appeared in vran newsletter fall 2008
the second review assessed 12 studies of the effects of paracetamol for  treating children in relation to fever clearance time, febrile convulsions and  resolution of associated symptoms.
fever charts from stanford childrens hospital site, in california.
cutaneous reactions to nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs.
case report: stevens-johnson syndrome and cholestatic hepatitis drugs causing fixed eruptions: a study of 450 cases other drugs  incriminated were tetracycline, metamizole, phenylbutazone, paracetamol,  acetylsalicylic acid, mefenamic acid, metronidazole, tinidazole, chlormezanone,  amoxycillin, ampicillin, erythromycin, belladonna, griseofulvin,  phenobarbitone, diclofenac sodium, indomethacin, ibuprofen, diflunisal,  pyrantel pamoate, clindamycin, allopurinol, orphenadrine, and albendazole.
if improvement and new symptoms that are really a problem and body  can't deal with itself - research and find what the new remedy should be (will  sometimes use one remedy and shift things and then need a different to finish  up) d.
best to give as an aqueous solution - one or two pillules/tablets in water put one pillule or tablet in 6 oz of water (use purified, filtered water  if possible) in a water bottle used only for this let dissolve or sit for at least 5 minutes (the remedy coats the pillule  which is sucrose or the tablet which is lactose)
why you may not want to vaccinate -
making an informed choice
evidence summary limited evidence was found regarding the use of  antipyretic medications in the promotion of wellbeing, activity, eating and  drinking, and no evidence of cost-effectiveness.
the vital force of the body does better if you put them in water and then raise the potency a little each time.
" i don't agree that 103 or 104 needs professional help unless prolonged  fever and no progress being made or other serious symptoms.
other ways are not reliable.
seizures from fevers don't cause brain injury glutathione importance - tylenol (calpol) depletes glutathione tylenol (calpol) depletes glutathione numerous studies document that  tylenol depletes glutathione, which is a crucial ingredient for immunity and  for detoxification including removal of mercury after vaccines.
but best to give in the way i describe below.
the first investigated the hypothesis that paracetamol and ibuprofen, used  prophylactically, will reduce the incidence of febrile convulsions across a  wide variety of conditions.
- throw all away at the end once treatment is over or not needing this remedy for this illness any longer vaccine bookstore highly recommended books back to main vaccine page please call, write or email for more detailed information vaccinedangers@gmail.com back to top
below is a (quick) translation, by one of my list members, of the official  policy guidelines for dutch family doctors in case of fever in children, given  by their organisation and published on internet.
do not treat for chronic or recurring things on your  own or with 30c. do not go by what is on the bottle (heaven only knows why fda or whatever  makes them say that stuff) you can give just a dry pillule, but it appears to work better to give in  water (aqueous solution) and be able to succuss it between doses - but in a  pinch, give as dry.
if you get near the end of the bottle, keep at least one teaspoon in there and add 6 ozs more of water to keep it going, as you have been raising the potency each time and don't want to start over.
it found no evidence that the prophylactic use of antipyretics has any effect in reducing the incidence of febrile convulsions.
have person  hold in their mouth for a few seconds if possible.
- in general, fever does not need  treatment.
gdg translation the gdg noted that, from the evidence, antipyretic agents  do not appear to be effective in the prevention of febrile convulsions.
-  temperature should be measured per rectum.
- parents should not wake their child to take the temperature.
shake just a little take one teaspoon out of water bottle and give to the person.
i post this information for the remedy pictures he lists again, find the one remedy that matches the symptom picture the best,  especially paying attention to the emotional state of the child while ill administering homeopathic remedies put your dry pillules, tablets, in  water to administer - see below best not to take them dry.