erythema nodosum may be very uncomfortable, but it tends to clear up on  its own, usually resolving over a period of six weeks.
| view all skin, hair and nails articles » how is erythema nodosum treated?
nevertheless, it can sometimes recur.
less often, it can be the first sign of a systemic disease, such  as tuberculosis,inflammatory bowel disease, bacterial or deep fungal infection,  sarcoidosis (inflammatory disease most commonly affecting the lungs, skin and  eyes), or, rarely, cancer.
medline plus, a service of the national library of medicine national institutes of health.
http://www.nlm.nih.gov/medlineplus/ency/article/000881.htm.
in the meantime, pain-relieving medication can help ease symptoms.
accessed april 20, 2011.
following your treatment plan for any existing underlying disorder can help reduce your chances of experiencing a recurrence of erythema nodosum.
it is characterized by lumps or nodules beneath the skin  that are about an inch across and are firm, red, and warm to the touch.
» how is erythema nodosum treated?
over  the course of several days, the lumps may turn a purplish color and then fade  over the next several weeks.
erythema nodosum: a sign of systemic disease.
› - erythema nodosum › - treatments erythema nodosum: treatments - skin, hair and nails overview - introduction - symptoms - causes - treatments - | view all skin, hair and nails articles
symptoms of erythema nodosum consist of lumps or nodules under the skin  that are usually about an inch across and are firm, red, warm, and sensitive to  the touch.
some common symptomatic relief agents include: nsaids, such as ibuprofen (advil, motrin, nuprin) or naproxen (aleve,  anaprox, naprosyn) salicylic acids, such as aspirin (ascriptin, bayer, ecotrin), diflunisal  (dolobid), or salsalate (disalcid, salflex) additional symptomatic relief agents
however, nsaids should be avoided if you also have crohn’s  disease, because the nsaid can trigger a flare-up or make the crohn’s  disease worse.
they usually appear on the shins but may  also occur on other parts of your body, such as your arms, legs and buttocks.
what are the potential complications of erythema nodosum?
there are no known complications of erythema nodosum itself.
take a look at our full list of health topics.
articles - main › - skin, hair and nails
you can help minimize your risk of  serious complications by following the treatment plan you and your health care  professional design specifically for you.
caring for a sunburn 04/27/2012 - health tip: what constitutes 'healthy eating?'
many people experience painful joints, unexplained weight loss, low-gradefever, and a general feeling of malaise or lethargy as early as one to three weeks...
read more about erythema nodosum symptoms causes what causes erythema nodosum?
however, nsaids should be avoided if you also have crohn’s disease, because the nsaid can trigger a flare-up or make the crohn’s disease worse.
may not be reproduced or reprinted without permission from health grades, inc.
more on better medicine facing the workplace with ms 10 things to know about schizophrenia a brighter future with copd 4 don'ts for sensitive skin speech therapy after stroke 5 tips for dating with rosacea want better medicine?
however, delaying or avoiding treatment of any identified cause or primary disorder may result in complications specific to that disorder.
accessed april 20,  2011.
- metabolic system - mouth, teeth and oral health - poisoning and environmental health - sexual health - skin, hair and nails about better medicine - privacy policy - user agreement - advertising policy - advertise with us - editorial policy - site map - tell us what you think - find a doctor on healthgrades.com
however, delaying or avoiding  treatment of any identified cause or primary disorder may result in  complications specific to that disorder.
- be a savvy health consumer > - control your health care costs > - find
- activate good health today >
nevertheless, it can  sometimes recur.
what is erythema nodosum?
schwartz ra, nervi sj.
use of this information is governed by the healthgrades user agreement.
the condition  usually resolves on its own within six weeks.
over the course of a few days, they may turn a purplish color and then fade over the next several weeks.
erythema nodosum may be very uncomfortable, but it tends to clear up on its own, usually resolving over a period of six weeks.
use  of this information is governed by the healthgrades user agreement.
following your treatment plan for any existing underlying  disorder can help reduce your chances of experiencing a recurrence of erythema  nodosum.
more information on skin, hair and nails skin, hair and nails overview acne
less often, it can be the first sign of a systemic disease, such as tuberculosis,inflammatory bowel disease, bacterial or deep fungal infection, sarcoidosis (inflammatory disease most commonly affecting the lungs, skin and eyes), or, rarely, cancer.
more information on skin, hair and nails harvard logo expert advice from harvard medical school psoriasis linked to diabetes › - skin, hair and nails overview - acne - eczema - psoriasis - rosacea - skin cancer - glossary of skin, hair and nails terms - view all on skin, hair and nails this article is filed under: skin, hair and nails top features in skin, hair and nails - psoriasis and tattoos - your skin's worst enemies - treating age spots - three types of human lice found on children 15 ways to get better medicine people who are actively involved in their medical care stay healthier, recover quicker when they're ill, and live longer, healthier lives.
last annual review date: mon may 02 00:00:00 edt 2011
they usually appear on the shins but may also occur on other pa...
may  not be reproduced or reprinted without permission from health grades, inc.
a common choice for pain management is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (nsaid).
read more about erythema nodosum introduction symptoms what are the symptoms of erythema nodosum?
quiz chronic migraine quiz: is it chronic migraine?
erythema nodosum is a painful inflammation of the fat beneath the skin’s surface.
over the course of a few days, they may turn a purplish color and  then fade over the next several weeks.
in more than half of all cases, the exact cause of erythema nodosum is not known, but it has been linked to a variety of other infections, most commonly strep throat.
references: erythema nodosum.
some common symptomatic relief agents include: - nsaids, such as ibuprofen (advil, motrin, nuprin) or naproxen (aleve, anaprox, naprosyn) - salicylic acids, such as aspirin (ascriptin, bayer, ecotrin), diflunisal (dolobid), or salsalate (disalcid, salflex) additional symptomatic relief agents
many people experience painful joints, unexplained weight loss, low-gradefever,  and a general feeling of malaise or lethargy as early as one to three weeks...
medline plus, a service of the national library of  medicine national institutes of health.
http://www.aafp.org/afp/2007/0301/p695.html.
all rights reserved.
health tests - depression - stubborn psoriasis - rosacea skin test - schizophrenia treatment slideshow stepping up depression treatment better medicine logo popular health sections - allergies and the immune system - bones, joints and muscles - brain and nerves - cancer - diabetes and the endocrine system - digestive system - ear, nose and throat - eyes and vision - female reproductive system - food, nutrition and diet - genetics and birth defects - heart, blood and circulation - infections and contagious diseases - injuries and wounds - kidneys and the urinary system - lungs, breathing and respiration - male reproductive system - mental health and behavior © copyright 2012 better medicine.
you can help minimize your risk of serious complications by following the treatment plan you and your health care professional design specifically for you.
take a look at our full list of health  topics.
more about controlling indoor allergens › chronic migraine
symptoms of erythema nodosum consist of lumps or nodules under the skin that are usually about an inch across and are firm, red, warm, and sensitive to the touch.
erythema nodosum is a painful inflammation of the fat beneath the  skin’s surface.
read more about erythema nodosum causes related health centers: acne, eczema, psoriasis, rosacea, skin cancer related health topics: ringworm, sweating disorders, scabies up next ›› fibroma medical reviewer: all  content has been reviewed by board-certified physicians under the direction of  rich klasco, m.d., facep.
better medicine logo - main - conditions - acne - adhd - allergies - alzheimer's disease - anemia - arthritis - asthma - breast cancer - cholesterol - copd - cold & flu - colon cancer - depression - diabetes - eczema - epilepsy - fibromyalgia - gout - hemorrhoids - hypertension - interstitial cystitis - kidney cancer - leukemia - lung cancer - migraine & headaches - multiple sclerosis - osteoporosis - pregnancy - restless legs syndrome - rheumatoid arthritis - rosacea - schizophrenia - shingles - triglycerides - view all conditions - symptoms - back pain - bruising - cough - dehydration - earache - food poisoning - hives - itching skin - joint pain - leg numbness - leg pain - lower back pain - middle ear infection - stomach cramps - sweating - swollen tongue - tingling fingers - tingling tongue - vomiting - weight gain - view
04/27/2012 - kids' kidney transplant rules may have shrunk 'race gap' 04/26/2012 - scientists identify gene behind pygmies' short stature 04/26/2012 - healthy behaviors extend life after cancer, experts say 04/26/2012 - view more skin, hair and nails news expert q + a stem cell transplants help multiple myeloma in the news
the allergy triggers inside can be the hardest to avoid.
in addition to taking pain medications as directed and following your  treatment plan for any existing primary cause, you may also find additional  pain relief by: applying hot or cold compresses avoiding activities that aggravate your pain until symptoms subside what are the potential complications of erythema nodosum?
in more than half of all cases, the exact cause of erythema nodosum is not  known, but it has been linked to a variety of other infections, most commonly  strep throat.
depending on the primary cause of your erythema nodosum, additional agents  or alternatives to nsaids might include: potassium iodide, taken as a solution for four weeks, may provide relief  by reducing the nodules if it is started as soon as possible after the onset of  erythema nodosum systemic steroids such as oral prednisone (deltasone, liquid pred) are a  safe option as long as malignancy, underlying infection, and risk of sepsis  have been ruled out what you can do to improve your erythema nodosum
more on better medicine - facing the workplace with ms - 10 things to know about schizophrenia - a brighter future with copd - 4 don'ts for sensitive skin - speech therapy after stroke - 5 tips for dating with rosacea - want better medicine?
it is characterized by lumps or nodules beneath the skin that are about an inch across and are firm, red, and warm to the touch.
they usually appear on the shins but may also occur on other parts of your body, such as your arms, legs and buttocks.
depending on the primary cause of your erythema nodosum, additional agents or alternatives to nsaids might include: - potassium iodide, taken as a solution for four weeks, may provide relief by reducing the nodules if it is started as soon as possible after the onset of erythema nodosum - systemic steroids such as oral prednisone (deltasone, liquid pred) are a safe option as long as malignancy, underlying infection, and risk of sepsis have been ruled out what you can do to improve your erythema nodosum
all symptoms - drugs & treatments - abilify - actos - advair - avastin - lipitor - crestor - cymbalta - effexor xr - enbrel - epogen - lexapro - lovenox - nexium - neulasta - oxycontin - plavix - remicade - seroquel - singulair - zyprexa - view all drugs - healthy living - women's health - children's health - men's health - senior health - symptom checker - forums view all skin, hair and nails
a common choice for pain management is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory  drug (nsaid).
they usually appear on the shins but may also  occur on other pa...
it can also be a reaction to medications, such as antibiotics or oral contraceptives....
the condition usually resolves on its own within six weeks.
read more about erythema nodosum causes up next ›› fibroma - related health centers: acne, eczema, psoriasis, rosacea, skin cancer - related health topics: ringworm, sweating disorders, scabies medical reviewer: all content has been reviewed by board-certified physicians under the direction of rich klasco, m.d., facep.
most common symptomatic relief agents
right before your next appointment > - better medicine: something for every body > skin, hair and nails quizzes - atopic dermatitis quiz - bunions, corns and hammertoes quiz - head lice quiz - melanoma quiz - poison ivy quiz - psoriasis quiz - rosacea quiz - acne quiz - tattoos and body piercing quiz popular skin, hair and nails slide shows - 9 tips to stay safe in the sun - 8 tips to keep your skin looking young - common skin conditions health news today feed - health tip:
over the course of several days, the lumps may turn a purplish color and then fade over the next several weeks.
in addition to taking pain medications as directed and following your treatment plan for any existing primary cause, you may also find additional pain relief by: - applying hot or cold compresses - avoiding activities that aggravate your pain until symptoms subside
copyright: © copyright 2011 health grades, inc.