if a child shivers in the bath, stop the bath, dry the child and wait.
doing so may only prolong the illness or mask underlying symptoms and make it harder to determine the cause.
therefore a person with a fever will not sweat, even though body temperature is higher than normal, until a fever "breaks" (starts to resolve).
fever's glass ceiling.
in rare instances, a malignanttumor or some forms of  kidney cancer may cause a fever.
both  types of thermometers should be cleaned after use with alcohol or soap and warm  water.
a fever isn't an illness itself, but an indication that something out of the ordinary is going on in the body.
, has a severe headache or  stomachache, or has any other symptoms causing significant discomfort.
is a newborn and has a lower than normal temperature—less than 97  °f (36.1 &degc).
carefully insert the bulb one-half inch to one inch into the baby's  rectum.
that's because the viruses that cause colds and other respiratory infections thrive at cool temperatures.
the doctor will likely diagnose the cause of the fever based on other  symptoms and a physical exam.
1992 sep  23-30;268(12):1578-80.abstract ↑ 4.0 4.1 mackowiak pa.
some experts believe that aggressively treating a fever may actually interfere with the body's ability to fight an infection.
although most seizures stop on their own, call for emergency medical  assistance if a seizure lasts longer than 10 minutes.
abstract to suggest changes to this page, you must create an account on medpedia.
unusual eye sensitivity to bright light.
a temperature is normally taking by placing an oral thermometer in the  mouth, or a rectal thermometer in the rectum, and leaving it in place for three  to five minutes.
there are currently no lead editors of this article.
unusual skin rash, especially if the rash gets rapidly worse.
has special medical circumstances, such as immune system problems or a  pre-existing illness.
it is not advisable to try to lower the body temperature before consulting  a physician (i.e. by taking a cold shower).
1996 mar;22(3):525-36.
a fever almost never rises above 105.8 °f (41 °c) to 107.6 °f  (42 °c) in humans.[5] fever can be a side effect of some medications such as antibiotics and  drugs used to treathigh blood pressure or seizures.
water is a good choice for adults, but the best liquid for a sick child under one year of age is an oral rehydration solution (such as pedialyte).
the axillary temperature is about 1 degree  fahrenheit lower than an oral temperature.
other recommendations for both  older children and adults include the following: for fever below 102 °f (38.9 °c) don't use any medication for a fever in this range unless advised by a  doctor.
abdominal pain or pain when urinating.
a unifying  hypothesis.
medpedia is not a substitute for professional advice or expert medical  services from a qualified health professional.
they can be produced by one's owncells (endogenous pyrogens) or can result from exposure to a microorganism (exogenous pyrogens).
wash the hands vigorously, covering both the front and back of each hand  with soap, and rinsing thoroughly under running water.
consult a physician about a fever if: in addition, consult a physician immediately if any of these signs and symptoms accompany a fever: to check body temperature, several types of thermometers are available, including electronic thermometers and ear (tympanic) thermometers.
a temperature is normally taking by placing an oral thermometer in the mouth, or a rectal thermometer in the rectum, and leaving it in place for three to five minutes.
a fever occurs when the body temperature rises above its normal range.
in addition, consult a physician immediately if any of these signs and  symptoms accompany a fever: severe headache.
depending on what's causing the fever, additional fever symptoms may include: very high fevers, from 103 °f (39.4 °c) to 106 °f (41.1 °c) and higher, may cause the following: a fever almost never rises above 105.8 °f (41 °c) to 107.6 °f (42 °c) in humans.[5] fever can be a side effect of some medications such as antibiotics and drugs used to treathigh blood pressure or seizures.
categories: fever | body temperature changes | signs and  symptoms | pathological conditions, signs and symptoms | diseases the  content on or accessible through medpedia.com is for informational purposes  only.
treatment most fevers go away in a relatively short time (usually within a few days).
both types of thermometers should be cleaned after use with alcohol or soap and warm water.
in infants and children  younger than two years of age, these may be signs ofmeningitis, an infection  and inflammation of the membranes and fluid surrounding the brain and spinal  cord.
remove any sharp objects that are near the child loosen tight clothing and hold the child to prevent injury don't place anything in the child's mouth or try to stop the seizure
frequent washing of the hands, especially before eating, after using the  toilet, after spending time in a crowded public place, or after petting  animals, can minimize exposure to bacteria or viruses that can result in fever.
a critical appraisal  of 98.6 degrees f, the upper limit of the normal body temperature, and other  legacies of carl reinhold august wunderlich.
some infants and children  develop fevers after receivingroutine immunizations, such as the diphtheria,  tetanus and acellular pertussis (dtap) or [[pneumococcal]] vaccines.
hold the bulb and the baby still for three minutes.
abstract | full text | pdf ↑ 3.0 3.1 mackowiak pa, wasserman ss, levine mm.
in fact, fevers seem to play a key role in helping the body fight off a number of infections.
for infants an unexplained fever is a greater cause for concern in infants and children  than in adults.
the "normal" temperature taken by mouth can range from about 97 °f (36.1 °c) to 99.9 °f (37.7 °c).[3] normal body temperature is regulated by several areas in the brain and nervous system, including the hypothalamus, an area at the base of the brain that acts as a thermostat for the body.[2] in a healthy individual, anything that results in a rise in body temperature, for example exercising, causes the regulatory system to activate body mechanisms, such as sweating, to reduce the temperature back to normal.
carry hand-washing  towelettes for times when access to soap and water is not available.
yet there are some circumstances when medical advice should be obtained for infants, children, or adult as described below.
wash the hands vigorously, covering both the front and back of each hand with soap, and rinsing thoroughly under running water.
yet there are some circumstances when medical advice should be  obtained for infants, children, or adult as described below.
if the body temperature is higher than 100.9 °f (38.3 °c) for more than three weeks and the doctor isn't able to find the cause after extensive evaluation, the diagnosis may befever of unknown origin.[6] [7] in most cases, though, the cause of the fever can be found and treated.
infect dis clin north am .
instead,  dress in comfortable, light clothing and try bathing in lukewarm water.
when to seek medical attention fevers by themselves may not be a cause for alarm—or a reason to call  a doctor.
arch intern med. 1998
it's possible for fever medications to have side effects, especially in young children.
has a fever and unexplained irritability, such as marked crying.
a rectal temperature reading is generally 1 °f higher than an oral reading.
what is normal for one individual may be a little higher or lower than the average temperature of98.6 °f (37 °c).
avoid taking or administering too much medication.
antibiotics may be  prescribed for bacterial infections, such aspneumonia or strep throat.
it is not advisable to try to lower the body temperature before consulting a physician (i.e. by taking a cold shower).
fevers by themselves may not be a cause for alarm—or a reason to call a doctor.
1996 mar;10(1):211-6.
because a fever can occur with many different conditions, other signs and symptoms can often help identify the cause.
jun 15;120(12):1037-40.
febrile seizures are often  triggered by a fever from a common childhood illness such asroseola, a viral  infection that causes a high fever, swollen glands and a rash.
severe swelling of the throat.
use a rectal thermometer for infants as follows: place a dab of petroleum jelly on the bulb of the thermometer.
one of the most effective ways to do that is also one of the simplest, frequent hand washing.
is younger than two years of age and has a fever that persists for longer  than one day, or longer than three days in a child two years of age or older.
carry hand-washing towelettes for times when access to soap and water is not available.
water is a good choice for adults, but the best liquid for a  sick child under one year of age is an oral rehydration solution (such as pedialyte).
although alarming, the majority of febrile seizures cause no lasting effects.
although it's not the most accurate way to take a temperature, an oral thermometer may be used for an armpit (axillary) reading as follows: use a rectal thermometer for infants as follows: a rapid rise or fall in temperature may cause a fever-induced seizure febrile seizure in children younger than age 5.
if a low-grade fever persists for three weeks or more, without other symptoms, the doctor may recommend a variety of tests to help find the cause.
in many cases, the rise in body temperature that occurs with a fever can be viewed as a beneficial response in the body's attempt to fight off infecting microorganisms.
although it's not the most accurate way to take a temperature, an oral  thermometer may be used for an armpit (axillary) reading as follows: place the thermometer in the armpit with arms crossed over the chest.
for fever between 102 °f (38.9 °c) and 104 °f (40  °c) take acetaminophen or ibuprofen according to the label instructions or as  recommended by a doctor (adults may use aspirin instead).
for children consult a pediatrician if the child: is listless or irritable, vomits repeatedly
for fever between 102 °f (38.9 °c) and 104 °f (40 °c) for fever above 104 °f (40 °c)
sometimesheat exhaustion, extreme sunburn or certain inflammatory  conditions such astemporal arteritis (inflammation of an artery in the head)
has a fever and seems lethargic and unresponsive.
if a seizure occurs: the best way to prevent fevers is to reduce exposure to infectious diseases.
has a fever after being left in a very hot car.
for a  small child, use a syringe with measurements on the side and a bulb on the tip.
this can  help the doctor understand the cause of the seizure.
stiff neck and pain when bending the head forward.
these solutions contain water and salts in specific proportions to replenish both fluids andelectrolytes in children.
not all fevers need treatment with medications.[8] it's possible for fever  medications to have side effects, especially in young children.
at  bedtime, use a sheet or light blanket.
reference ↑ 2.0 2.1 2.2 2.3 mackowiak pa.
a slight fever can help the body get rid of such viruses.[4] self-care because the body loses more water with a fever, drink plenty of fluids to  avoid dehydration.
other recommendations for both older children and adults include the following: for fever below 102 °f (38.9 °c)
the duration of the fever is more than three days.
when the temperature regulating system is exposed to pyrogens, the body increases heat production mainly by shivering.
prevention the best way to prevent fevers is to reduce exposure to infectious  diseases.
however aspirin should not be used to treat a fever in children as it may trigger a rare, but potentially fatal, disorder known asreye syndrome.
wait four to five minutes.
high doses of  acetaminophen, or taking the drug for a long time, may cause liver or kidney  damage, and an overdoses can be fatal.
this can happen to older children with severe damage to thenervous system, children with a life-threatening bacterial infection in the blood (sepsis), and children with a weakened immune system.
antibiotics may be prescribed for bacterial infections, such aspneumonia or strep throat.
consult apediatrician (children's doctor) if the baby: is younger than three months of age and has a rectal temperature of 100.4  °f (38 °c) or higher.
seek medical care  immediately.
lay the baby on his or her tummy.
but a rectal temperature higher than100.4 °f (38 °c) is usually always considered a fever.
the pathways appear to be complex and involve a number of other chemicals such as prostaglandin e2.[2] exogenous pyrogens are components of microorganisms that trigger an inflammatory response, which includes a fever.
glossary of terms for thermal physiology.
endogenous pyrogens are chemicals produced by specific cells in the body, mainlymacrophages and other phagocytic cells (cells that engulf invading microbes), in response to an invading microbe or to exogenous pyrogens.
however  aspirin should not be used to treat a fever in children as it may trigger a  rare, but potentially fatal, disorder known asreye syndrome.
complications a rapid rise or fall in temperature may cause a fever-induced seizure  febrile seizure in children younger than age 5.
for adults consult a physician about a fever if: the body temperature is more than 103 °f (39.4 °c).
try not to touch the nose, mouth oreyes, these are the main way viral  infections are transmitted.
if the fever doesn't get better or the child has a febrile seizure, seek immediate medical care.
to suggest changes to this page, you must create an account on medpedia.
taking a temperature to check body temperature, several types of thermometers are available,  including electronic thermometers and ear (tympanic) thermometers.
abstract | full  text ↑ mackowiak pa, boulant ja.
some endogenous pyrogens includeinterleukin-1, tumor necrosis factor, interleukin-6, and interferon gamma.[2] the mechanism by which endogenous pyrogens actually induce fever is not fully understood.
medical treatment depends on the cause of the fever.
may trigger fever as well.
sometimes additional tests are necessary to  confirm a diagnosis.
therefore,  consultation with a physician may be necessary before administering fever  medication to small children.
references ↑ iups thermal commission.
some infants and children develop fevers after receivingroutine immunizations, such as the diphtheria, tetanus and acellular pertussis (dtap) or [[pneumococcal]] vaccines.
difficulty breathing or chest pain.
a fever usually means the body is responding to a viral or bacterial infection.
even when an individual is healthy, the body temperature varies throughout the day.
people with fever should get plenty of rest.
gently squirt the medicine in the back corners of the child's mouth.
if the body  temperature is higher than 100.9 °f (38.3 °c) for more than three weeks  and the doctor isn't able to find the cause after extensive evaluation, the  diagnosis may befever of unknown origin.[6] [7] in most cases, though, the  cause of the fever can be found and treated.
the doctor will likely diagnose the cause of the fever based on other symptoms and a physical exam.
abstract | full text | pdf ↑ klein nc, cunha ba.treatment of fever.
if a low-grade fever persists for three weeks or more, without other  symptoms, the doctor may recommend a variety of tests to help find the cause.
for  viral infections, including stomach infection (gastroenteritis) and  mononucleosis, the best treatment is often rest and plenty of fluids.
is older than three months of age and has a temperature of 102 °f  (38.8 °c) or higher.
these solutions contain water and salts in specific proportions to  replenish both fluids andelectrolytes in children.
thermometers with digital readouts and those that take the temperature quickly from the ear canal are especially useful for young children and older adults.
frequent washing of the hands, especially before eating, after using the toilet, after spending time in a crowded public place, or after petting animals, can minimize exposure to bacteria or viruses that can result in fever.
the thermometer is then removed and the temperature read.
not all fevers need treatment with medications.[8]
endotoxin or lps, a component of gram negative bacteria, is a potent pyrogen.
in newborns, non-shivering mechanisms are involved in increased heat production.
although alarming, the majority  of febrile seizures cause no lasting effects.
dehydration general weakness very high fevers, from 103 °f (39.4 °c) to 106 °f (41.1 °c)  and higher, may cause the following: hallucinations irritability convulsions fever-induced seizures (febrile seizures).
that's because the  viruses that cause colds and other respiratory infections thrive at cool  temperatures.
abstract ↑ gaeta gb, fusco fm, nardiello s. fever of unknown origin: a  systematic review of the literature for 1995-2004.nucl med commun.
2006  mar;27(3):205-11.abstract ↑ knockaert dc, vanderschueren s, blockmans d. fever of unknown  origin in adults: 40 years on.
sometimes additional tests are necessary to confirm a diagnosis.
extreme listlessness or irritability.
side effects of aspirin and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, such as ibuprofen, include stomach pain,  bleeding, and ulcers.
shivering actually raises the body's internal temperature (shaking muscles generate heat).
an unexplained fever is a greater cause for concern in infants and children than in adults.
sep 28;158(17):1870-81.
thus, the mechanisms of fever may have developed as an evolutionary response to infecting microbes.[4] pyrogens are substances that can cause a fever.
this  can happen to older children with severe damage to thenervous system, children  with a life-threatening bacterial infection in the blood (sepsis), and children  with a weakened immune system.
try not to touch the nose, mouth oreyes, these are the main way viral infections are transmitted.
fever: blessing or curse?
in rare instances, a malignanttumor or some forms of kidney cancer may cause a fever.
sometimes, older children can have a lower-than-normal temperature.
a sponge bath is most likely to help if it's used  shortly after a dosage of acetaminophen or ibuprofen is taken, so that the  medication can work to keep the fever down after the bath takes effect.
these may includeblood tests and x-rays.
sometimesheat exhaustion, extreme sunburn or certain inflammatory conditions such astemporal arteritis (inflammation of an artery in the head) may trigger fever as well.
therefore, consultation with a physician may be necessary before administering fever medication to small children.
adults may also use aspirin.
shivering actually raises the body's internal temperature (shaking muscles  generate heat).
for viral infections, including stomach infection (gastroenteritis) and mononucleosis, the best treatment is often rest and plenty of fluids.
the doctor may also make a recommendation about using over-the-counter  medications, such asacetaminophen (paracetamol, e.g. tylenol) or ibuprofen (e.g. advil, motrin) to lower a high fever.
most fevers go away in a relatively short time (usually within a few days).
if the fever doesn't get better or the child has a febrile  seizure, seek immediate medical care.
because the contents of glassmercury thermometers harm both humans and  the environment, they are no longer recommended.
because the contents of glassmercury thermometers harm both humans and the environment, they are no longer recommended.
any other unexplained signs or symptoms.
a fever isn't necessarily bad.
thermometers with digital readouts and those that take the temperature  quickly from the ear canal are especially useful for young children and older  adults.
consult apediatrician (children's doctor) if the baby: consult a pediatrician if the child: sometimes, older children can have a lower-than-normal temperature.
doing so may only prolong the  illness or mask underlying symptoms and make it harder to determine the cause.
try to note which part of the child's body begins to shake first.
the doctor may also make a recommendation about using over-the-counter medications, such asacetaminophen (paracetamol, e.g. tylenol) or ibuprofen (e.g. advil, motrin) to lower a high fever.
very young babies may not regulate their body  temperature well when they are ill and may become cold rather than hot.
for fever above 104 °f (40 °c) use a five- to ten-minute sponge bath of lukewarm water to try to bring  the high temperature down.
some experts believe that aggressively treating a fever may actually  interfere with the body's ability to fight an infection.
it is lower in the morning and higher in the late afternoon and evening.
what a fever could mean a fever usually means the body is responding to a viral or bacterial  infection.
one of the most effective ways to do that is also one of the  simplest, frequent hand washing.
sometimes it's not possible to identify the cause of a fever.
acetaminophen is available in liquid, chewable, and suppository forms for  children, but it's often easiest to give medications in liquid form.
if a seizure occurs: lay the child on his or her side.
in a situation where fever occurs, substances in the body calledpyrogens, discussed below, alter the activity of the regulatory system so that the body's temperature rises to a higher degree before cooling mechanisms are activated.
manybacteria thrive in an environment of around 98.6 °f (37 °c), but don't reproduce as well at a higher temperature of only one or two degrees.
a slight fever can help the body get rid of such viruses.[4] because the body loses more water with a fever, drink plenty of fluids to avoid dehydration.
don't give children aspirin because of the risk of reye syndrome.