external pyrogens include toxins (poisons) produced by infectious viruses or bacteria.
however, body temperature varies between people, with different levels of activity and at different times of the day.
prognosis • additional info what is it?
expected duration depending on its cause, a fever may disappear in a day or last for weeks.
keep a record of your current immunizations.
sustained body temperatures of 106° fahrenheit or above can cause brain damage.
in children, reduce fever by using acetaminophen or ibuprofen, together with lukewarm sponge baths.
•   when to call a professional •  prognosis •   additional info what is it?
fever develops when the hypothalamus is set to a higher-than-normal temperature.
internal pyrogens include abnormal chemicals that are produced by  tumors and proteins that are released during the normal response of the immune  system.
eat light foods that are easy to digest.
when to call a professional adults and children should seek immediate medical attention for any fever  of 104° fahrenheit or higher or for any fever accompanied by one or more of  the following: convulsion
diagnosis in pinpointing a fever's cause, your doctor may ask about: cold or flu symptoms abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting or diarrhea burning or pain with urination pain or discomfort in any part of your body contact with sick people at home, work or school the types of food you've eaten recently any recent exposure you have had to animals, including pets whether you have any implanted prosthetic or mechanical device, such as  an artificial joint or mechanical heart valve any recent surgery, cuts or large areas of broken skin chronic inflammatory conditions, such as rheumatoid arthritis
prognosis for most fevers caused by common infections, the person either recovers on their own or the doctor is able to identify and treat the cause.
a part of the brain called the hypothalamus acts as the body's thermostat.
in infants and toddlers, febrile seizures typically cause muscle rigidity and generalized convulsions that last less than 15 minutes.
when all is well in the body, the hypothalamus is set at the normal body temperature.
for example, a fever accompanied by vomiting and diarrhea may signal gastroenteritis, and a fever associated with coughing, shortness of breath and grayish-yellow phlegm may indicatepneumonia.
review this record with your doctor every year to confirm that your immunizations are up-to-date.
call sooner if you develop additional symptoms.
limit exposure to crowds and to people with known infections.
symptom checker content copyright © 2006 by president and fellows of harvard college.
specific symptoms associated with a fever often can provide clues to help  identify the fever's cause.
when all is well in the body, the hypothalamus is set at the normal body  temperature.
prevention you can reduce your risk of getting illnesses that cause fever by adopting  these healthy habits: practice good hygiene by washing your hands frequently with soap and warm  water, especially after using the toilet and before eating.
high fever can lead to symptoms of mental dysfunction, such as confusion, excessive sleepiness, irritability and convulsions (seizures).
- privacy policy - your ad choices ©2012 about.com.
call a doctor immediately if an infant younger than 3 months develops any fever.
related articles - fever - fever description - fever symptoms - fever prevention - fever ... - fever in infants in children - fever in infants symptoms in children -... - fevers and brain damage - do fevers cause brain damage - fever in children in children - fever in children symptoms in children...
cook and store foods properly to avoid food poisoning.
external pyrogens include toxins (poisons) produced by infectious viruses or  bacteria.
fluids help to cool your body and they replenish vital salts and minerals (electrolytes), which may be lost during vomiting or diarrhea.
- get plenty of rest.
depending on your symptoms and the results of your physical examination,  you may need diagnostic tests, including laboratory examination of body fluids  (blood, urine, stool or spinal fluid); special x-rays or scans; or abiopsy  (taking a sample of body tissue for laboratory examination).
take ibuprofen (advil, motrin or others), acetaminophen (tylenol) or  aspirin according to label directions.
expected duration • prevention •
when to call a professional •
this resetting of the hypothalamus is usually caused by small molecules called pyrogens in the blood.
symptoms • diagnosis •
treatment doctors often advise adults with mild to moderate fevers below 102° fahrenheit to: - drink plenty of water and fruit juices to prevent dehydration (abnormally low levels of body water).
- fever in infants in children - fever in infants symptoms in children -...
causes of fever include: hundreds of types of viruses, bacteria and parasites that cause many  illnesses, such as upper respiratory infections, pneumonia, diarrhea and  urinary tract infections chronic (long-term) conditions associated with inflammation, such as  rheumatoid arthritis severe trauma, including surgery reactions to medications or immunizations certain types of cancers symptoms common symptoms associated with fever include sweating, shivering,  headaches, muscle aches, poor appetite, rash, restlessness and general body  weakness.
convulsions triggered by fever (febrile seizures) are common among children  younger than 5 years.
fever may help to fight infection, so  there is a controversy about whether fever should be treated routinely or only  if it is particularly severe.
high fever can lead to symptoms of mental dysfunction, such as  confusion, excessive sleepiness, irritability and convulsions (seizures).
pyrogens can come from outside the body (external) or can be produced inside the body (internal).
fever develops when the hypothalamus is set to a  higher-than-normal temperature.
however,  body temperature varies between people, with different levels of activity and  at different times of the day.
these seizures usually occur at the beginning of an illness when temperature rises rapidly.
more information on harvard medical school's publications and services is available at http://www.health.harvard.edu.
a part of the new york times company.
- limit exposure to crowds and to people with known infections.
diagnosis in pinpointing a fever's cause, your doctor may ask about: - cold or flu symptoms - abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting or diarrhea - burning or pain with urination - pain or discomfort in any part of your body - contact with sick people at home, work or school - the types of food you've eaten recently - any recent exposure you have had to animals, including pets - whether you have any implanted prosthetic or mechanical device, such as an artificial joint or mechanical heart valve - any recent surgery, cuts or large areas of broken skin - chronic inflammatory conditions, such as rheumatoid arthritis - the types of medications you take - recent immunizations - recent travel, especially to a foreign country your doctor will take your temperature orally, in the ear canal or rectally.
medical textbooks differ in their definition of  the highest normal body temperature.
aspirin should not be given to infants and children younger than age 16  because of the risk of reye's syndrome, a life-threatening neurological  disorder that can develop when children take aspirin during a viral illness.
depending on the suspected site of infection, your doctor may then examine your: - skin for signs of rash or infection - lymph nodes for swelling (a sign of nearby infection) - eyes for redness or jaundice (yellowing of the whites of the eyes) - mouth and throat for signs of pharyngitis (throat infection) or a tooth abscess - cardiovascular system for heart failure or infections involving the heart - chest for lung infection - abdomen for infections of the gallbladder, intestine or appendix - joints for arthritis - genitals for sexually transmitted diseases - nervous system for encephalitis (brain infection) or meningitis (inflammation or infection involving the membranes covering the brain)
fever generally can be defined as an early morning temperature higher than 99° fahrenheit or a temperature higher than 100° fahrenheit at any time of the day.
use of content is subject to terms & conditions and medical disclaimer.
symptom checker also from about.com: - about.com - health - symptom checker - calorie count - nutrition database - advertise on about.com - our story - news & events - work at about - sitemap - all topics - reprints - help - write for about - user agreement - ethics policy - patent info.
this resetting of the hypothalamus is usually  caused by small molecules called pyrogens in the blood.
- cook and store foods properly to avoid food poisoning.
causes of fever include: - hundreds of types of viruses, bacteria and parasites that cause many illnesses, such as upper respiratory infections, pneumonia, diarrhea and urinary tract infections - chronic (long-term) conditions associated with inflammation, such as rheumatoid arthritis - severe trauma, including surgery - reactions to medications or immunizations - certain types of cancers symptoms common symptoms associated with fever include sweating, shivering, headaches, muscle aches, poor appetite, rash, restlessness and general body weakness.
fever generally can be defined as an early  morning temperature higher than 99° fahrenheit or a temperature higher than  100° fahrenheit at any time of the day.
- about.com - health - symptom checker symptom checker search send to a friend - symptom checker - lab test interpreter fever •
for example, a fever accompanied by vomiting and  diarrhea may signal gastroenteritis, and a fever associated with coughing,  shortness of breath and grayish-yellow phlegm may indicatepneumonia.
if your child has a febrile seizure, call your doctor immediately.
for a lower fever of unexplained origin, call your doctor if it does not improve after two to three days.
the types of medications you take recent immunizations recent travel, especially to a foreign country your doctor will take your temperature orally, in the ear canal or  rectally.
depending on the suspected site of infection, your doctor may then  examine your: skin for signs of rash or infection lymph nodes for swelling (a sign of nearby infection) eyes for redness or jaundice (yellowing of the whites of the eyes) mouth and throat
specific symptoms associated with a fever often can provide clues to help identify the fever's cause.
- keep a record of your current immunizations.
when to call a professional adults and children should seek immediate medical attention for any fever of 104° fahrenheit or higher or for any fever accompanied by one or more of the following: - convulsion - loss of consciousness - confusion - stiff neck - difficulty breathing - severe pain anywhere in the body (especially the head, chest or abdomen)
for signs of pharyngitis (throat infection) or a tooth  abscess cardiovascular system for heart failure or infections involving the heart chest for lung infection abdomen for infections of the gallbladder, intestine or appendix joints for arthritis genitals for sexually transmitted diseases nervous system for encephalitis (brain infection) or meningitis  (inflammation or infection involving the membranes covering the brain)
used with permission of staywell.
these seizures usually occur at the beginning of an  illness when temperature rises rapidly.
if your child has a febrile seizure, call your doctor  immediately.
convulsions triggered by fever (febrile seizures) are common among children younger than 5 years.
a febrile seizure usually is followed by a long period of sleep.
fluids help to cool your body and they replenish  vital salts and minerals (electrolytes), which may be lost during vomiting or  diarrhea.
- contact your doctor before traveling to a foreign country to receive any recommended immunizations before your trip.
if your doctor suspects that a bacterial infection is causing your fever, he or she will prescribe antibiotics.
fever may help to fight infection, so there is a controversy about whether fever should be treated routinely or only if it is particularly severe.
aspirin should not be given to infants and children younger than age 16 because of the risk of reye's syndrome, a life-threatening neurological disorder that can develop when children take aspirin during a viral illness.
a fever is an increase in body temperature above the normal range.
medical textbooks differ in their definition of the highest normal body temperature.
a febrile seizure usually is followed by a long period of  sleep.
depending on your symptoms and the results of your physical examination, you may need diagnostic tests, including laboratory examination of body fluids (blood, urine, stool or spinal fluid); special x-rays or scans; or abiopsy (taking a sample of body tissue for laboratory examination).
in infants and toddlers, febrile  seizures typically cause muscle rigidity and generalized convulsions that last  less than 15 minutes.
- swelling or inflammation of any part of the body - vaginal discharge that is discolored or foul-smelling - urinary tract symptoms (pain on urination, foul-smelling urine)
review this record with your  doctor every year to confirm that your immunizations are up-to-date.
if your doctor suspects that a bacterial infection is causing your fever,  he or she will prescribe antibiotics.
additional info american academy of family physicians (aafp) 11400 tomahawk creek parkway leawood, ks 66211-2672 phone: 913-906-6000 toll-free: 1-800-274-2237 email: email@familydoctor.org http://www.familydoctor.org/ online medical reviewer: faculty of harvard medical school date last reviewed: 12/2/2005 date last modified: 12/13/2005 source: from harvard health decision guides, harvard health publications, copyright © 2007 by president and fellows of harvard college.
prevention you can reduce your risk of getting illnesses that cause fever by adopting these healthy habits: - practice good hygiene by washing your hands frequently with soap and warm water, especially after using the toilet and before eating.
pyrogens can come from  outside the body (external) or can be produced inside the body (internal).
in  children, reduce fever by using acetaminophen or ibuprofen, together with  lukewarm sponge baths.
contact your doctor before traveling to a foreign country to receive any  recommended immunizations before your trip.
treatment doctors often advise adults with mild to moderate fevers below 102°  fahrenheit to: drink plenty of water and fruit juices to prevent dehydration (abnormally  low levels of body water).
- take ibuprofen (advil, motrin or others), acetaminophen (tylenol) or aspirin according to label directions.
internal pyrogens include abnormal chemicals that are produced by tumors and proteins that are released during the normal response of the immune system.
- eat light foods that are easy to digest.