cost can  run $60 - 120 per month.
the pain may be intermittent, with bad spells followed by periods of  relative relief.
improper balancing of the ligaments and other tissues  surrounding the joint and resulting poor joint stability is also a common  reason for failure of arthroplasty.
the surgeon performs a debridement (removal of damaged tissue) in  the joint to eliminate the loose or torn fragments that are causing pain and  inflammation.
back  to top prognosis osteoarthritis itself is not life threatening, but a person's quality of  life can significantly deteriorate as a result of pain and lost mobility.
joints joints provide flexibility, support, stability, and protection.
the drug is injected into the joint.
older adults are at higher risk for osteoarthritis.
patients who may not be good candidates are those with the following  conditions: severe neurologic, emotional, or mental disorders severe osteoporosis other chronic medical conditions obesity surgeons often prefer to delay prosthetic implantation in younger patients,  because implants wear out and the patient will need at least one revision  procedure later on.
a number of drugs are available to heal  nsaid-induced ulcers.
osteoarthritis develops when cartilage  in a joint deteriorates.
2007;56(7): 2278-2287.
pain is generally described as aching, stiffness, and loss of mobility.
other problems that can cause aches and pains in  the joints include physical injuries, infections, tendinitis, and poor  circulation.
osteoarthritis itself is not life threatening, but a person's quality of life can significantly deteriorate as a result of pain and lost mobility.
2007;146(12):868-877.
in rheumatoid arthritis, blood tests often show a specific antibody, known as rheumatoid factor, which is not present with osteoarthritis.
when pain becomes a major problem and less potent pain relievers are ineffective, doctors may try corticosteroid (steroid) injections, usually by giving the patient a shot in their joint every 3 months.
back to top different surgical procedures are available as a final measure to relieve pain and increase function in patients with osteoarthritis.
in a 2000 study, 41% of adults with less than a high school education had arthritis, compared to 21% of college graduates.
so-called cementless implants, in which the prosthesis is coated with a  porous material that allows bone to grow into and eventually adhere to the  device.
wearing orthopedic shoes or shock-absorbing soles in shoes can help during  daily activities and gentle exercise.
unfortunately, opioid abuse among young people is a major concern.
ann intern med 2007;147(3):itc8-1-itc8-16.
back to top conditions with similar  symptoms numerous conditions cause symptoms of joint aches and pains.
although osteoarthritis generally accompanies aging, osteoarthritic  cartilage is chemically different from normal cartilage of the same age.
long periods of inactivity cause the arthritic joint to stiffen and the adjoining tissue to atrophy (waste away).
in people younger than 45, osteoarthritis occurs more frequently in males  (although it is not common in younger adults).
education the incidence of osteoarthritis is highest in people with lower educational  levels.
the combination of collagen mesh and water forms a strong and slippery pad  in the joint.
promote weight loss.
the pain also may radiate to the knee, confusing the diagnosis.
mechanical aids a wide variety of devices are available to help support and protect joints: splints or braces, worn while the joint is at rest or in use, help align  joints and properly distribute weight.
during the first few days of use, the patient will experience  a warm, stinging sensation when the cream is applied.
other medical conditions that can cause osteoarthritis other causes of osteoarthritis include: bleeding disorders that cause bleeding in the joint, such as hemophilia disorders that block the blood supply near a joint, such as avascular  necrosis complications of persistent, inflammatory arthritic conditions,  particularly chronic gout, pseudogout, or rheumatoid arthritis conditions that cause iron build-up in the joints, such as hemochromatosis back to top symptoms the pain of osteoarthritis typically begins gradually and progresses slowly  over many years.
an mri exam of an arthritic joint is generally not needed, unless the doctor suspects other causes of pain.
after surgery,  patients should take certain precautions.
minimally invasive hip replacement surgery.
physical therapy and supportive devices can be helpful.
a commonly used brace for knee osteoarthritis that involves only one side  of the knee joint is called an offloading brace.
fortunately, advances in cement and  prosthetic implants are improving the implant survival rates and reducing the  need for revision procedures.
elderly patients with poorly controlled osteoarthritis often do very well after joint replacement surgery.
this procedure, which requires an extremely experienced  surgeon, uses special instruments and a shorter incision (3 - 6 inches vs. 10 -  12 inches in traditional hip replacement).
revision arthroplasty a repair procedure called arthroplasty revision may be used in cases where  the original transplant fails.
a clinical comparative study of the direct anterior with mini-posterior approach two consecutive series.
long-term, there have been rare reports of a  possibleautoimmune response, in which loose particles released from the  prosthetic device trick certain immune system factors into attacking healthy  cells.
complications can occur, and, although uncommon,  some can be life threatening.
it is used to prevent scar tissue from  developing.
bull nyu hosp jt dis.
a variation on the  traditional hip replacement is the newer procedure known as minimally invasive  hip replacement.
twitter digg facebook  more... email print rss description  an  in-depth report on the causes, diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of the most  common form of arthritis.
in people younger than 45, osteoarthritis occurs more frequently in males (although it is not common in younger adults).
a major analysis reported weak evidence on any real effect of hydrotherapy on pain or quality of life, but some patients may find comfort in this pleasant therapy.
the following are  some of the medications used in mild-to-severe cases: acetaminophen nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (nsaids) or cox-2 inhibitors capsaicin narcotic pain relievers (oxycodone, oxymorphone, or morphine) glucosamine and chondroitin (see alternative and complementary medicine section) acetaminophen acetaminophen (tylenol, anacin-3, panadol, phenaphen, valadol, and others)  is currently the first choice for treating osteoarthritis.
surgery: a recent study found that elderly patients with poorly controlled  osteoarthritis do very well after joint replacement surgery.
the patient feels pain  when using the joint.
no good evidence indicates that ginger  provides a benefit for osteoarthritis.
deterioration of cartilage.
deep blood clots can develop in the legs after this surgery.
a variation on the traditional hip replacement is the newer procedure  known as minimally invasive hip replacement.
hyaluronic acid is a naturally  occurring substance in joints, which acts as a lubricant for slow movements and  a shock absorber for fast motions.
however, a 2006 review of knee osteoarthritis studies found that pain-relief medications generally help only for the first 2 - 3 weeks of treatment.
they argue that patients who wait until they are severely disabled do not recover as completely as those who have the procedure earlier.
(stiffness from osteoarthritis  usually clears up within half an hour.)
this is the first step in preventing  or healing ulcers caused by nsaids.
although painful, the arthritic knee usually retains reasonable flexibility.
hyaluronic injections appear to be about as effective as nsaids and  corticosteroid shots for relieving pain, at least in men, and they have no  adverse effects in the stomach or intestines.
people with rheumatoid arthritis generally have morning stiffness that lasts for at least an hour.
the following joints are most frequently affected: osteoarthritis of the hand may predict the later development of osteoarthritis in the hip or knee.
anticoagulants (blood thinners) are  important for preventing blood clots.
cycling and walking are beneficial, and  swimming or exercising in water is highly recommended, for people with  arthritis.
although the average rate of osteoarthritis among older adults in the u.s. is 60%, it can vary widely among geographical regions.
the bones around the joints may feel larger than normal.
chondrocalcinosis chondrocalcinosis is a disease in which calcium crystals known as cppd  (calcium pyrophosphate dihydrate) accumulate in the joints.
osteotomy for treating  knee osteoarthritis.
those with osteoarthritis of the hip often have a restricted range of motion (particularly when trying to rotate the hip) and walk with a limp, because they slightly turn the affected leg to avoid pain.
this process may play an important  role in the development and progression of osteoarthritis.
failure of bone to grow into the porous material  is a relatively common event, a problem that does not occur with cement  prostheses.
the  technique is painless and involves the insertion of small fine needles at  select points in the body.
most hip replacement patients leave the hospital within a week and can walk with crutches within 2 - 4 weeks, recovering fully in about 3 months.
other joint surgeries (such as  shoulders, elbows, wrists, and fingers) are less common, and some arthritic  joints (in the spine, for instance) cannot yet be treated in this manner.
other causes of osteoarthritis include: the pain of osteoarthritis typically begins gradually and progresses slowly over many years.
overweight patients with osteoarthritis can lessen the shock on their joints by losing weight.
try proton-pump inhibitors (ppis).
the rates in older adults are lowest (34%) in hawaii and highest (70%) in alabama.
back to top numerous conditions cause symptoms of joint aches and pains.
the patient must understand, however, that fusing the bones makes movement of the joint impossible.
may be a useful  procedure in cases of limited knee damage.
the doctor will first use a local anesthetic because these viscous  (sticky) shots need a large needle.
complementary medicine: acupuncture appears to be a safe and may be a helpful addition to standard  therapy for some patients, such as pregnant women, who cannot take most pain  medications.
hip replacement is the most established and successful replacement procedure, followed by knee replacement.
this procedure is used most often in treating arthritis of the foot.
there have been several reported cases of serious and even lethal side effects from herbal products.
minimally invasive hip replacement can be done with 1 or 2 incisions.
it may also help improve the  strength and elasticity of knee cartilage.
proper treatment of injuries, such as surgical repair of ligament tears in the  knee with a strong rehabilitation approach, may help prevent the development of  osteoarthritis.
philadelphia, pa: saunders; 2005.
there may be a loss of sensation that leads  to an increased risk of injury from overuse.
nearly all vertebrates suffer from osteoarthritis, including porpoises and whales, as did dinosaurs.
just like a drug, herbs and supplements can affect the body's chemistry, and therefore have the potential to produce side effects that may be harmful.
long-term use of nsaids is the second most common cause of ulcers, and the rate of nsaid-caused ulcers is increasing.
nsaid-related  bleeding and stomach problems may be responsible for 107,000 hospital  admissions and 16,500 deaths each year.
other herbs and supplements ginger (zingiberaceae).
intensive education on how to protect and care for an osteoarthritic joint may  help patients avoid multiple visits to their doctor.
fluid pockets may also form within the bone marrow itself, causing  swelling.
in some cases, the nerves may become pinched, which also produces pain.
there will  not be enough fluid to withdraw if the joint is normal.
these implants are usually used for patients younger than age 65, who  are likely to need repeat surgery in their lifetime.
there are different options available for attaching it to the adjoining  bones: a cement made of polymethylmethacrylate (usually preferred for older  patients who generally have thinner bones).
some studies suggest  that immune factors called vascular endothelial growth factor (vegf) are  overproduced during the inflammatory response and in turn increase production  of mmps.
certain occupations with repeated stressful  motions (such as squatting or kneeling with heavy lifting) can contribute to  the deterioration of cartilage.
back to top risk factors
the main source of wear is from tiny  particles released from the prosthesis.
occupational changes once they have been diagnosed with osteoarthritis, patients should reduce  shock to the affected joint.
they are  important because they can bond to water, which keeps high amounts of water in  cartilage.
limitations after knee surgery include: walking distance improves in 80% of patients after knee replacement  surgery, but patients still cannot run.
specific parts of the joint: thesynovium and cartilage, provide these functions.
new developments in osteoarthritis.
due to its proven heart benefits, aspirin was excluded from these labeling revisions.
as a result, these injuries may cause a lot of pain in many  patients with osteoarthritis.
such a program involves screening  prospective patients for possible drug abuse and then regularly monitoring  those who are taking it, adjusting the dose as necessary to achieve an  acceptable balance between pain relief and side effects.
the middle joints of the  fingers can also develop osteoarthritis.
vitamins and other dietary factors calcium and vitamin d. calcium and vitamin d are important for  strong bones.
osteoarthritis of the spine is most troublesome when it occurs in the lower back or in the neck, where it can cause difficulty in swallowing.
if you have nsaid-induced  ulcers, follow these steps: switch to alternative pain relievers.
although osteoarthritis is primarily a disease of joints, bone  strength is also important, particularly in older people.
it may relieve pain and delay the need for a total knee replacement.
while several studies have shown a benefit for this treatment, a number of studies on viscosupplementation have shown little or no benefits, particularly in women, and more research is needed to determine if they are useful.
although comparable  disparities in knee arthritis were observed between african-american and  caucasian women, they might be explained by greater average weight among  african-american women.
the condition may explain why some patients with osteoarthritis benefit from colchicine, a drug used for gout and other crystal-induced joint diseases.
the 2 incision technique is more complicated and time consuming, and at the moment seems to have a higher rate of complications.
(older women should be aware of  urinary tract infections, which may require postponing surgery.)
drug manufacturers of prescription and over-the-counter nsaids must now include with their products the same boxed warning used for the cox-2 inhibitor celecoxib (celebrex).
it  uses a mechanical device that slowly moves the joint through an arc of motion  for an extended period of time.
however, preserving the meniscus, even if it is damaged, is believed to be better than removing it, since even a small amount of meniscus helps protect the joint and prevent osteoarthritis from worsening.
et al. effect of glucosamine sulfate on  hip osteoarthritis: a randomized trial.
it acts as a shock absorber.
risk factors: exercise: three types of exercise are best for people with osteoarthritis: complementary medicine: surgery: osteoarthritis, also known as degenerative joint disease, is the most common form of arthritis.
older patients and those with medical problems should always check with their  doctor before starting an exercise program.
losing 5 pounds of weight can eliminate 20 pounds of stress on the knee.
the 2 incision technique is  more complicated and time consuming, and at the moment seems to have a higher  rate of complications.
ethnicity and inheritance the rate of osteoarthritis varies among ethnic groups.
they are currently being  investigated for osteoarthritis as well.
there may be a loss of sensation that leads to an increased risk of injury from overuse.
the most common  side effects, pain at the injection site and knee pain and swelling, are  usually mild and temporary.
due to its proven heart benefits, aspirin was excluded from these  labeling revisions.
brands include  omeprazole (prilosec), esomeprazole (nexium), lansoprazole (prevacid),  rabeprazole (aciphex), and pantoprazole (protonix).
these  joints can develop bony growths known as heberden's nodes.
in any case, acupuncture appears to be a safe and beneficial addition to standard therapy for certain patients, such as pregnant women, who cannot take most pain medications.
the tissue that lines the joint can become inflamed, the ligaments can loosen, and the muscles around the joint can weaken.
rheum  dis clin n am.
2008;168(13):1430-1440.
a review of trials reported that both methods were better than placebo (sham treatments) in treating osteoarthritis of the knee, although additional well-designed studies are needed.
a variant (sometimes called percutaneous electrical nerve stimulation, or pens) applies these pulses through a small needle to acupuncture points.
treatment takes about 2 - 6 weeks.
in a knee surgery called meniscectomy, the doctor removes damaged meniscus (cartilage) after an injury.
rheumatoid arthritis affects many joints, and often occurs symmetrically on  both sides of the body.
limitations after hip surgery include: usually patients with new hips are able to walk several miles a day and  climb stairs, but they cannot run.
bone fusion is most often done in the  spine and in the small joints of the hands and feet.
a small amount of capsaicin must be applied to the area of inflammation about  four times a day.
joint replacement surgery in elderly patients with severe osteoarthritis of the hip or knee: decision making, postoperative recovery, and clinical outcomes.
osteoarthritis frequently  strikes the weight-bearing joints in one or both hips.
back to top highlights overview: osteoarthritis, also known as degenerative joint disease, is the most  common form of arthritis.
the effect of alendronate on progression of spinal osteophytes and disc space narrowing.
a number of drugs are available to heal nsaid-induced ulcers.
cartilage in older people is about  70% water.
symptoms by location hand.
coxibs inhibit an inflammation-promoting enzyme called cox-2.
according to this theory, the cartilage absorbs the immune factors released in this process.
in spite of short-term success, longer experience with this method suggests it may not be superior to cement prostheses.
[epub ahead of print] neogi t, nevitt mc, ensrud ke, et al.
topical nsaids delivered in gels, creams, or patches do not appear to  provide any long-term benefits in reducing arthritic pain.
uncemented arthroplasty using porous material has shown good results for  the hip, although it may be less successful for knee replacement.
bony projections, cysts, or erosions are visible.
inflammation probably plays at most a minor role in the formation of osteoarthritis and is more likely to be a result -- not a cause -- of the disease.
in any  case, acupuncture appears to be a safe and beneficial addition to standard  therapy for certain patients, such as pregnant women, who cannot take most pain  medications.
if the doctor can  withdraw fluid, problems are likely, and the fluid will be tested for factors  that might confirm or rule out osteoarthritis: cartilage cells in the fluid are signs of osteoarthritis.
there has been some question about the role of strenuous exercise in osteoarthritis.
rheumatoid arthritis affects many joints, and often occurs symmetrically on both sides of the body.
this is the only skin preparation that does more than just mask pain or reduce it temporarily.
people in occupations with repetitive and  stressful movement should find ways to reduce trauma.
other factors may be present that suggest different arthritic conditions,  including lyme disease and rheumatoid arthritis.
osteoarthritis of the hand may predict the later development of  osteoarthritis in the hip or knee.
in general, studies report reoperation  rates of over 30% after 10 years.
it is common in joints of the fingers, feet, knees, hips, and spine.
click the icon to see an illustrated series detailing knee joint replacement  surgery.
there are two types of narcotics: although the use of narcotics for arthritic pain is controversial, many studies have suggested that they are rarely addictive for pain sufferers except among patients with a history of substance abuse.
more than 650,000 of these procedures are done on arthritic knees each year in the u.s., and about half of patients report less pain after the procedure.
most hip replacement patients leave the hospital within a week  and can walk with crutches within 2 - 4 weeks, recovering fully in about 3  months.
this sensation goes away,  and pain relief usually begins within 1 - 2 weeks.
range-of-motion exercises increase the amount of movement in a joint and  muscle.
opioids may have a place in  osteoarthritis treatment when milder drugs are not effective or appropriate.
long-term effects are still unknown, but studies of up to 3 years have reported no significant side effects.
hyaluronic acid injections (viscosupplementation) shots of hyaluronic acid (such as hyalgan, synvisc, artzal, and nuflexxa)  into the joint -- a procedure called viscosupplementation -- are one of the  recommended treatments for osteoarthritis.
the symptoms are often worse when resuming activities after periods of no  activity.
according  to one study, the optimal treatment length is 40 minutes.
back to top surgery different surgical procedures are available as a final measure to relieve  pain and increase function in patients with osteoarthritis.
patients are usually advised not to have more than two or three injections a year, since there is some concern that repeated injections over the long term may be harmful.
capsaicin is a component of hot red peppers and may bring pain relief when used as a skin cream (zostrix).
limitations after hip surgery include: limitations after knee surgery include: failure rates.
weight reduction overweight patients with osteoarthritis can lessen the shock on their  joints by losing weight.
osteoarthritis also tends to favor specific joints over others in certain ethnic groups.
as a result, it becomes increasingly prone to damage from repetitive  use and injury.
some theories on how the inflammatory response may contribute to osteoarthritis involve overproduction of enzymes called matrix metalloproteinases or mmps (also called collagenases).
because  acetaminophen has fewer side effects, most experts suggest trying this drug  first, then switching to an nsaid if acetaminophen does not provide sufficient  pain relief.
2006;88 suppl 1 pt 2:221-233.
such a program involves screening prospective patients for possible drug abuse and then regularly monitoring those who are taking it, adjusting the dose as necessary to achieve an acceptable balance between pain relief and side effects.
pain develops slowly,  usually in the groin and on the outside of the hips, or sometimes in the  buttocks.
hyaluronic acid is a naturally occurring substance in joints, which acts as a lubricant for slow movements and a shock absorber for fast motions.
bone fusion is most often done in the spine and in the small joints of the hands and feet.
there is a 1% chance of death within 3 months of  an initial procedure and a 2.6% risk after a repeat procedure.
specific complications include the following: deep blood clots in the legs (known as deep vein thrombosis) and pulmonary  embolism.
more research is needed to confirm benefits and  long-term risks.
(stiffness from osteoarthritis usually clears up within half an hour.)
meta-analysis: acupuncture for osteoarthritis of the knee.
try misoprostol or diclofenac sodium/misoprostol (arthrotec).
a number of other blood tests may help identify other rheumatological  illnesses.
the studies of thousands of patients with chronic osteoarthritis pain compared acupuncture to conventional treatment (such as physical therapy and anti-inflammatory drugs).
click the icon to see an illustrated series detailing knee arthroscopy surgery.
longer-term studies are needed to determine if these benefits are continuous.
charcot's joint occurs when an underlying disease, usually diabetes, causes nerve damage in the joint, which leads to swelling, bleeding, increased temperature, and changes in bone.
occurs in about 3.1% of first hip procedures.
the patient also wears  specially fitted elastic stockings to help prevent clots.
click the icon to  see an image of osteoporosis.
for  example, in one study, wearing insoles plus elastic straps supporting the ankle  joint helped overweight women with osteoarthritis in the knee.
osteoarthritis in the knee may cause a crackling-like noise (called  crepitus) when moved.
for patients with arthritis in the hip or  knees, exercises that strengthen the muscles of the upper leg are important.
some experts suggest, however, that joint replacement should be considered earlier rather than as a last resort.
the patient is mobile during this period.
tests of the synovial fluid if the diagnosis is uncertain or infection is suspected, a doctor may  attempt to withdraw synovial fluid from the joint using a needle.
people with jobs that require kneeling or  squatting for more than an hour a day are at high risk for knee osteoarthritis.
the surgeon removes the ball and socket joint that joins the pelvis and  thigh bone (femur) and replaces it with an artificial joint (a prosthesis).
some theories on how the inflammatory response may contribute to  osteoarthritis involve overproduction of enzymes called matrix  metalloproteinases or mmps (also called collagenases).
however, being obese also increases the risk for osteoarthritis in the fingers as well as the knees and hips, suggesting that being overweight may contribute to osteoarthritis in other ways.
these studies showed positive  results lasting for up to 6 months after treatment.
the primary indications for surgery are pain and  significant limitations of movement, including walking, that cannot be treated  by less invasive therapies.
if other  drugs are inappropriate, misoprostol protects against the major intestinal  toxicity of nsaids.
osteoarthritis may affect the cartilage in the disks that  form cushions between the bones of the spine, the moving joints of the spine  itself, or both.
some experts recommend cement implants over cementless ones for total knee arthroplasty.
the synovium is the fluid-filled lining of a joint.
hydrotherapy, also called spa therapy or balneotherapy, is an ancient therapy that uses bathing in mineral baths for soothing pain.
however, a 2006  review of knee osteoarthritis studies found that pain-relief medications  generally help only for the first 2 - 3 weeks of treatment.
capsaicin seems to reduce a substance in the body, known as substance p, which contributes both to inflammation and the delivery of pain impulses from the central nervous system.
in general, studies report reoperation rates of over 30% after 10 years.
in this disorder, a joint loses cartilage, the slippery material that cushions the ends of bones, over time.
progression of pain is usually gradual.
infections at the pin site are the most common complications.
because acetaminophen has fewer side effects, most experts suggest trying this drug first, then switching to an nsaid if acetaminophen does not provide sufficient pain relief.
osteoarthritis sometimes develops  years after a single traumatic injury to or near a joint.
people under age 40 may have the condition with no symptoms at all.
one study reported that people whose knees bent inward ("knock-kneed") or outward ("bow-legged"), for example, were more likely to have progressive osteoarthritis of the knee.
cartilage loss is suggested by certain characteristics of the images: if the doctor suspects other conditions, or if the diagnosis is uncertain, additional tests are necessary.
arthroscopy is most likely to benefit people with evidence of bone and  cartilage fragments in the joint, or patients whose joints lock or catch with  movement.
however, some studies suggest that building up thigh muscles may worsen osteoarthritis in people whose knees are misaligned (for instance those who are "bow-legged" or "knock-kneed").
the study, which  followed patients at a veterans affairs hospital for 2 years, has called into  serious question whether the popular procedure has any real benefits for  osteoarthritis beyond what might be achieved by a placebo response.
strengthening exercises include isometric  exercises (pushing or pulling against static resistance).
in a 2000 study, 41% of adults with less than a high school education  had arthritis, compared to 21% of college graduates.
it was the first drug approved for preventing nsaid-induced  ulcers.
some experts encourage patients to emphasize strengthening leg muscles as a first treatment step, before using pain relievers.
many experts believe that osteoarthritis results from a genetic susceptibility that causes some biological response to injuries to the joint, which in turn leads to progressive deterioration of cartilage.
many experts now recommend that patients use oral nsaids for only a short  period of time.
serious adverse reactions are rare.
it involves scraping the surfaces of the hip joint and  femur and placing a metal cap over the bone.
however, there are some concerns that glucosamine may affect insulin and blood sugar (glucose) metabolism.
meta-analysis: acupuncture for  osteoarthritis of the knee.
there is a 1% chance of death within 3 months of an initial procedure and a 2.6% risk after a repeat procedure.
the procedure involves a small  incision and insertion of small implants.
however, preserving the meniscus, even if it is  damaged, is believed to be better than removing it, since even a small amount  of meniscus helps protect the joint and prevent osteoarthritis from worsening.
because there are usually no gastrointestinal symptoms from nsaids until bleeding begins, doctors cannot predict which patients taking these drugs will develop bleeding.
orthop clin north am.
while many patients find that joint  replacement provides remarkable pain relief and restores some mobility, they  need time to adjust to the artificial joint.
back to top osteoarthritis is often visible in x-rays.
(patients with osteoarthritis should avoid high-impact sports, such as jogging, tennis, and racquetball.)click the icon to see an image of exercise.
narcotics, pain-relieving and sleep-inducing drugs that act on the central nervous system, are the most powerful medications available for the management of moderate-to-severe pain.
the patient must understand, however, that fusing the bones  makes movement of the joint impossible.
accurate  placement of the needle directly into the knee joint space is important and may  be difficult, even for experienced doctors, if there is no fluid build-up in  the joint.
tramadol for osteoarthritis: a systematic review and metaanalysis.
osteoarthritis affects joints differently depending on their  location in the body.
a 2 yr longitudinal  radiographic study examining the effect of a bisphosphonate (risedronate) upon  subchondral bone loss in osteoarthritic knee patients.
once in the cartilage, these immune factors suppress cartilage cell growth, and  activate mmps.
patients need to avoid weight-bearing activities for about 48 hours after  each shot.
physical  therapists or other trained health professionals should apply the tape.
there will not be enough fluid to withdraw if the joint is normal.
the differences may be due to different approaches, and standardized methods are needed before any benefits can be shown.
the marrow, which runs up through the center of the bone, is rich in  nerve fibers.
inflammation probably plays at most a minor role in the formation of  osteoarthritis and is more likely to be a result -- not a cause -- of the  disease.
it is important to note that a negative x-ray does not rule out  osteoarthritis.
some experts encourage patients to emphasize strengthening leg muscles as a  first treatment step, before using pain relievers.
specially designed hip protectors, worn under the clothes, can also  protect against hip fractures in elderly patients with impaired mobility who  are apt to fall.
it has been marketed as a remedy for both depression and  arthritis, but scientific evidence supporting these claims is scant.
j  arthroplasty. 2008
long-term use of nsaids does not actually delay the progression  of osteoarthritis and may increase patients' risk of side effects.
patients are usually advised not to have more than two or three injections  a year, since there is some concern that repeated injections over the long term  may be harmful.
the specific procedure depends on whether the bone defects that occurred arecontained or uncontained.
it is equally or even more, effective than some of the ppis, but it  does not heal existing ulcers and has more side effects than ppis.
early trials indicate it may be  as effective, and safer, than either nsaids or cox-2 inhibitors.
s-adenosylmethionine (same).
it is used to prevent scar tissue from developing.
patients in the national institute of health's gait trial took 1,500 mg of glucosamine and 1,200 mg of chondroitin.
any pre-existing infection must be  treated and cured before surgery is performed.
furthermore, many factors associated with a sedentary life (muscle weakness, obesity) are associated with a higher risk for osteoarthritis.
failure of bone to grow into the porous material is a relatively common event, a problem that does not occur with cement prostheses.
exercise helps: exercise especially helps patients with mild-to-moderate osteoarthritis in the hip or in the knee.
in a knee surgery called meniscectomy, the doctor removes damaged meniscus  (cartilage) after an injury.
a review of clinical  trial data, published in 2004, suggested that guidelines that recommend topical  nsaids for treatment of osteoarthritis should be revised.
hydrotherapy hydrotherapy, also called spa therapy or balneotherapy, is an ancient  therapy that uses bathing in mineral baths for soothing pain.
rofecoxib (vioxx) and valdecoxib (bextra) have been withdrawn from the united  states market.
nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (nsaids) block prostaglandins, the substances that dilate blood vessels and cause inflammation and pain.
continuous  passive motion (cpm) is an effective regimen for knee replacement patients.
osteoarthritis develops when cartilage in a joint deteriorates.
it can cause nausea but does not cause severe gastrointestinal problems, as nsaids can.
studies suggest that an exercise program  started before surgery and resumed afterward can improve recovery.
oarsi recommendations for the  management of hip and knee osteoarthritis, part ii: oarsi evidence-based,  expert consensus guidelines.
specific  parts of the joint: thesynovium and cartilage, provide these  functions.
synovial fluid is a lubricating liquid that supplies nutrients and oxygen  to cartilage.
long periods of inactivity cause the  arthritic joint to stiffen and the adjoining tissue to atrophy (waste away).
the inflammatory response plays an important role in rheumatoid arthritis and other muscle and joint problems associated with autoimmune diseases.
posterolateral minimal incision for total hip replacement:  technique and early results.
one study reported that people whose  knees bent inward ("knock-kneed") or outward  ("bow-legged"), for example, were more likely to have progressive  osteoarthritis of the knee.
aerobic (endurance) exercise.
experience with a placebo-controlled randomized  clinical trial of a disease-modifying drug for osteoarthritis: the doxycycline  trial.
the joint at the base of the thumb,  where the thumb joint connects with the wrist, is the second most common  location.
whether it has any benefit for older patients with osteoarthritis is not yet known.
unless alleviated by medication or  corrected by surgery, a patien with advanced osteoarthritis may avoid even  relatively low-impact activities, such as walking.
the technique is painless and involves the insertion of small fine needles at select points in the body.
this drug  class was initially thought to provide benefits equal to nsaids but cause less  gastrointestinal distress.
those  with osteoarthritis of the hip often have a restricted range of motion  (particularly when trying to rotate the hip) and walk with a limp, because they  slightly turn the affected leg to avoid pain.
osteoarthritis may affect the cartilage in the disks that form cushions between the bones of the spine, the moving joints of the spine itself, or both.
however, it rarely causes  symptoms in this location.
for many years,  researchers in the u.s. have been studying whether these dietary supplements  really work for relieving osteoarthritis pain.
they  argue that patients who wait until they are severely disabled do not recover as  completely as those who have the procedure earlier.
losing 5 pounds of weight can  eliminate 20 pounds of stress on the knee.
the most common side effects, pain at the injection site and knee pain and swelling, are usually mild and temporary.
glucosamine hydrochloride and chondroitin sulfate are natural substances that are part of the building blocks found in and around cartilage.
knees, for example, sustain an impact three to five times the body weight when descending stairs.
resection arthroplasty.
rather, it affects one or several joints.
click the icon to see an illustrated series detailing hip joint replacement surgery.
exercise joints need motion to stay healthy.
chondrocytes, the basic cartilage cells, are critical for  balance and function.
about 1 in 4 people will develop hip arthritis over the course  of their lifetime.
in one study, although men in both groups had equal  risks for arthritic knees, african-american men were more likely to have  arthritis in both knees and to have more severe cases.
for patients with arthritis in the hip or knees, exercises  that strengthen the muscles of the upper leg are important.
older patients and those with medical problems should always check with their doctor before starting an exercise program.
[for more information, seein-depth report #53:  weight loss and diet.]
more than 650,000 of these  procedures are done on arthritic knees each year in the u.s., and about half of  patients report less pain after the procedure.
unicompartmental knee arthroplasty (also called unicondylar knee arthroplasty) may be a useful procedure in cases of limited knee damage.
cochrane database syst rev.  2008;(1):cd005118.
in addition to exercise, manipulation of muscles and joints by a trained  therapist may be helpful.
click the icon to see an image of the hip joint.
the negative effects of osteoarthritis on activities and physical and mental health are significant regardless of age, educational level, or gender.
strengthening the thigh muscles is certainly protective for people who have not yet developed osteoarthritis.
acetaminophen may be  less effective than nsaids in reducing moderate-to-severe pain.
some patients experience severe itching.
sun bh, wu cw, kalunian kc.
patients with diabetes should not take glucosamine without first talking to  their doctors.
in addition to exercise, manipulation of muscles and joints by a trained therapist may be helpful.
the surgeon removes the ball and socket joint that joins the pelvis and thigh bone (femur) and replaces it with an artificial joint (a prosthesis).
people with rheumatoid arthritis generally have morning  stiffness that lasts for at least an hour.
a new prosthesis  must be re-implanted at a later time.
this response causes specific immune factors, called cytokines, to gather in injured areas and cause inflammation and damage to body tissue and cells.
the safety records of both substances appear excellent.
people with jobs that require kneeling or squatting for more than an hour a day are at high risk for knee osteoarthritis.
exercise helps: reduce stiffness and increase flexibility.
however, being obese also increases the risk for  osteoarthritis in the fingers as well as the knees and hips, suggesting that  being overweight may contribute to osteoarthritis in other ways.
other joint surgeries (such as shoulders, elbows, wrists, and fingers) are less common, and some arthritic joints (in the spine, for instance) cannot yet be treated in this manner.
complications can occur, and, although uncommon, some can be life threatening.
the shots are also expensive.
adjusting the work area  or substituting tasks that produce less stress on joints helps reduce shock.
capsaicin seems to reduce a  substance in the body, known as substance p, which contributes both to  inflammation and the delivery of pain impulses from the central nervous system.
rather, it affects one  or several joints.
they are better able to  perform daily chores and remain more independent than their inactive peers.
the effects of the inflammatory response in osteoarthritis are likely to be different, and less severe, from those in rheumatoid arthritis.
sports that definitely pose a higher risk for  osteoarthritis have repetitive or direct joint impact (such as football), joint  twisting, or both (baseball pitching, soccer).
the rate is  much higher (14.4%) in revision operations.
hemicallotasis is a procedure for the knee that  may be a less invasive alternative to osteotomy.
it also worsens osteoarthritis once deterioration begins.
lambert rg, hutchings ej, grace mg, et al.
only slightly more than half of patients report improvement in stair  climbing.
among the groups at high risk for bleeding are elderly people, anyone with a history of ulcers or digestive tract bleeding, patients with serious heart conditions, alcohol abusers, and those on certain medications, such anticoagulants ("blood thinners"), corticosteroids, or bisphosphonates (drugs used for osteoporosis).click
this ball-and-socket cup is positioned to form the  new joint.
clinical trials of gene therapies that either fight joint degradation or  strengthen cartilage are in very early stages.
hammering away at deteriorating cartilage is  likely to speed up the degeneration.
however, there are some concerns  that glucosamine may affect insulin and blood sugar (glucose) metabolism.
click the icon to see an image of the spine.
studies suggest that an exercise program started before surgery and resumed afterward can improve recovery.
this procedure is used most often in treating  arthritis of the foot.
although painful, the arthritic knee usually retains reasonable  flexibility.
it has been marketed as a remedy for both depression and arthritis, but scientific evidence supporting these claims is scant.
joints provide flexibility, support, stability, and protection.
those at highest risks for complications are elderly adults, men (compared to women), african-americans, and those with serious medical conditions.
newer, longer-lasting materials, however, may help reduce the rate of revision operations.
if the diagnosis is uncertain or infection is suspected, a doctor may attempt to withdraw synovial fluid from the joint using a needle.
interestingly, moving to a warm climate does not seem to make much difference.
manheimer e, linde k, lao l, et al.
cepeda ms, camargo f, et al.
rofecoxib (vioxx) and valdecoxib (bextra) have been withdrawn from the united states market.
in one review, a combination of physical therapy and cpm were more  beneficial than physical therapy alone.
rheumatoid arthritis also does not usually show up in the fingertips where  osteoarthritis is common.
others that may be beneficial include sucralfate  (or h2 blockers), such as famotidine (pepcid ac), cimetidine (tagamet),  ranitidine (zantac).
the effects of the inflammatory  response in osteoarthritis are likely to be different, and less severe, from  those in rheumatoid arthritis.
legs of unequal length or skewed feet can cause jerky movement and may cause osteoarthritis.
back to top www.rheumatology.org -- american college of rheumatology www.arthritis.org -- arthritis foundation www.niams.nih.gov -- national institute of arthritis and musculoskeletal  and skin diseases www.aaos.org -- american academy of orthopaedic surgeons www.fda.gov/cder/drug/infopage/cox2 -- fda nsaid and cox-2 inhibitor  information back to top references bal bs, haltom d, aleto t, et al.
hyaluronic injections appear to be about as effective as nsaids and corticosteroid shots for relieving pain, at least in men, and they have no adverse effects in the stomach or intestines.
arthroscopy is performed to clean out bone and cartilage fragments that, in theory at least, may cause pain and inflammation.
it  poses far less of a risk for gastrointestinal problems than nsaids and does not  appear to increase the risk for miscarriage (as nsaids do), even when used  regularly.
genetic factors researchers report a high correlation of osteoarthritis between parents and  children, and between siblings.
knee replacement, in fact, has a slightly better  long-term success rate than hip replacement.
when two joints, such as both knees, need to be replaced, having the operations done sequentially rather than at the same time may result in fewer complications.
proton-pump inhibitors  are the most effective drugs.
in one study, older adults who practiced the gentle movement,  breathing, and meditation exercises of tai chi for 10 weeks reported less pain  than their peers who did not learn the technique.
however,  some studies suggest that building up thigh muscles may worsen osteoarthritis  in people whose knees are misaligned (for instance those who are  "bow-legged" or "knock-kneed").
five percent of people who leave the work force do so because of osteoarthritis.
in one clinical trial, patients  experienced a 40% reduction in pain within a few days.
poorly fitting or improperly used braces or splints  can cause more harm than good.
it involves scraping the surfaces of the hip joint and femur and placing a metal cap over the bone.
it is important to note that a negative x-ray does not rule out osteoarthritis.
obesity obesity, defined as being 20% over one's healthy weight, places people  (particularly women) at increased risk for osteoarthritis.
depending on  the number of other medical problems present, older patients should also be  assessed for hip replacement procedures.
the meniscus, the cartilage pad between the  joint formed by the thighbone and the shinbone, plays an important role in  protecting this joint.
osteoarthritis sometimes develops years after a single traumatic injury to or near a joint.
early complications of primary total hip replacement performed with a two-incision minimally invasive technique.
eventually, large amounts of cartilage are destroyed, leaving the ends of  the bone within the joint unprotected.
it does have some adverse effects, however, and the daily dose should not exceed 4 grams (4,000 mg).
a combination of tramadol and acetaminophen (ultracet) is now available and provides more rapid pain relief than tramadol alone, with more long-lasting benefits than acetaminophen.
the procedure preserves much of  the bone, so that a standard hip replacement can be done years later if needed.
a repair procedure called arthroplasty revision may be used in cases where the original transplant fails.
older  adults are at higher risk for osteoarthritis.
drug manufacturers of prescription and over-the-counter nsaids must now  include with their products the same boxed warning used for the cox-2 inhibitor  celecoxib (celebrex).
back to top lifestyle changes many doctors suggest first trying lifestyle changes to reduce stress on  affected joints.
experience with a placebo-controlled randomized clinical trial of a disease-modifying drug for osteoarthritis: the doxycycline trial.
osteoarthritis of the hand occurs most often in older women  and may be inherited within families.
click the icon to see an image of  exercise.
this pad cushions the ends of the bones in the joint during muscle movement.
click the icon to see an illustrated series detailing knee joint replacement surgery.
risk factors: in people younger than 45, osteoarthritis occurs more frequently in males.
the tissue that lines the joint can become inflamed, the ligaments  can loosen, and the muscles around the joint can weaken.
if a second arthroplasty is required, the potential for complications is  magnified: more bone is cut, more blood is lost, and the operation takes  longer.
high uric acid in the fluid is an indication of gout.
in this procedure, arthroscopy is used to first remove cartilage in eroded areas.
rheumatology (oxford) .
click the icon to see an image of osteoporosis.
s-adenosylmethionine (same, pronounced "sammy") is a synthetic form of a natural byproduct of the amino acid methionine.
mutations in this gene may also play a role in osteoarthritis.
likewise, some people may have minimal symptoms even though an x-ray clearly shows they have arthritis.
cochrane database syst rev. 2007;(3):cd004019.
hammering away at deteriorating cartilage is likely to speed up the degeneration.
others that may be beneficial include sucralfate (or h2 blockers), such as famotidine (pepcid ac), cimetidine (tagamet), ranitidine (zantac).
joint damage from injuries or recurrent stress to the joint is the starting point in the osteoarthritis disease process.
cartilage is one of the few tissues in the body that does not have its own blood supply.
its effects on osteoarthritis  pain are less clear, and side effects of long-term treatment with tetracycline  are unknown.
autologous chondrocyte implantation, also  called chondroplasty or the carticel approach, is used for knees damaged by  injuries.
the effect of alendronate on  progression of spinal osteophytes and disc space narrowing.
kelley's textbook of  rheumatology, 7th ed.
however, inflammation may play an important role in the progression of osteoarthritis and in its chronic nature.
the joint's  range of motion is often reduced, and normal movement is often painful.
patients with diabetes should not take glucosamine without first talking to their doctors.
the erythrocyte sedimentation rates (esr, or "sed rate")  indicates inflammatory arthritis or related conditions, such as rheumatoid  arthritis or systemic lupus erythematosus.
the  negative effects of osteoarthritis on activities and physical and mental health  are significant regardless of age, educational level, or gender.
some researchers are  combining lllt with transcutaneous electric nerve stimulation (tens).
x-rays of joints affected with rheumatoid arthritis show changes in the bones that differ from those occurring in osteoarthritis.
the meniscus, the cartilage pad between the joint formed by the thighbone and the shinbone, plays an important role in protecting this joint.
patients  tend to stop using it.
although osteoarthritis can  occasionally cause swollen, red joints, this appearance is much more typical of  rheumatoid arthritis and other types of inflammatory arthritis.
the study, which followed patients at a veterans affairs hospital for 2 years, has called into serious question whether the popular procedure has any real benefits for osteoarthritis beyond what might be achieved by a placebo response.
improve strength, which in turn improves balance and endurance.
there are dozens of nsaids available: many experts now recommend that patients use oral nsaids for only a short period of time.
osteoarthritis also can develop in the acromioclavicular (ac) joint, which is between the shoulder blade and the collarbone.
a metal shaft, or stem, with a polished metal ball at the top, is inserted  into the narrow center of the femur.
osteoarthritis of the hip can be treated with heating pads.
for example, mutations in the ank gene  may be important in some cases.
about 1 in 4 people will develop hip arthritis over the course of their lifetime.
large amounts of mmps break down collagen, the building blocks of cartilage.
an mri exam of an arthritic joint is generally not needed, unless the  doctor suspects other causes of pain.
a variation on the traditional hip replacement is the newer procedure known as minimally invasive hip replacement.
just like a drug, herbs and  supplements can affect the body's chemistry, and therefore have the potential  to produce side effects that may be harmful.
if an ice pack is not available, a package of frozen vegetables works just as well.
although many studies report positive results, including improved quality of life, very few of them have been rigorously conducted.
it  is composed of two pieces: a cup-like device fits in the hip socket (called the acetabula),  which has been hollowed out.
oarsi recommendations for the management of hip and knee osteoarthritis, part ii: oarsi evidence-based, expert consensus guidelines.
aside from the surgeon's skill and the patient's underlying condition, the success rate depends on the kind and degree of activity the joint receives following replacement surgery.
licofelone is a drug that inhibits both the cox enzyme plus an  inflammatory substance called lipoxygenase 5.
only heart disease has a greater impact on work.
some people have muscle spasm and contractions in the tendons.
both nsaids and cox-2 inhibitors are equally effective for pain relief and pose similar risks for heart attacks.
several genes that might contribute to an inherited risk are under investigation.
they are better able to perform daily chores and remain more independent than their inactive peers.
the bone is then reshaped to remove the deformity.
prescription nsaids include ibuprofen (motrin), naproxen (naprosyn,  anaprox), flurbiprofen (ansaid), diclofenac (voltaren, cataflam), tolmetin  (tolectin), ketoprofen (orudis, oruvail), nabumetone (relafen), dexibuprofen  (seractil), indomethacin (indocin), meloxicam (mobic, generic).
celecoxib (celebrex) is still available, but patients should  discuss with their doctors whether this drug is appropriate and safe for them.
only heart  disease has a greater impact on work.
rheumatoid arthritis begins in the synovial membrane rather than the cartilage.
those at highest risks for complications are  elderly adults, men (compared to women), african-americans, and those with  serious medical conditions.
the joint  loses proteoglycan molecules and other tissues.
because long-term use of corticosteroids has many potentially serious side effects, steroid medications are never given by mouth or systemically for the treatment of osteoarthritis.
the following are some examples: older african-american men are about 33% more likely than caucasian men to  have hip osteoarthritis.
tramadol (ultram) is a pain reliever that has been used as an alternative to opioids.
posterolateral minimal incision for total hip replacement: technique and early results.
some researchers suggest that a number of people have anatomical abnormalities, such as mismatched surfaces on the joints, which could be damaged over time.
knee replacement, in fact, has a slightly better long-term success rate than hip replacement.
genetic factors may be involved in about half of osteoarthritis cases in the hands and hips, and in a somewhat lower percentage of cases in the knee.
however,  physicians often neglect to suggest this option to older patients.
surgical expertise is important for  avoiding this complication.
it may provide more stability, a faster recovery, and greater range of motion, making it a potentially good option for young, physically active patients.
nsaid-related bleeding and stomach problems may be responsible for 107,000 hospital admissions and 16,500 deaths each year.
in one review, a combination of physical therapy and cpm were more beneficial than physical therapy alone.
although the following is mostly a description of hip replacement surgery, the principles are similar for other arthroplasty surgeries.
healing existing ulcers.
joint movement may cause a crackling sound.
whether it has any benefit for older patients with  osteoarthritis is not yet known.
a combination of tramadol and acetaminophen (ultracet) is now  available and provides more rapid pain relief than tramadol alone, with more  long-lasting benefits than acetaminophen.
another theory suggests that the inflammatory response is triggered by the  changes and injuries in the bone that occur during osteoarthritis.
however, several high-quality studies involving large numbers of patients have indicated that, in general, glucosamine and chondroitin do not seem to provide any more help than a placebo for the symptoms of osteoarthritis.
the greater the weight loss, the greater the benefit.
when a joint is inflamed (particularly in the knee) applying  ice for 20 - 30 minutes can be effective.
always  check with your doctor before using any herbal remedies or dietary supplements.
these include uneven leg lengths, nerve damage that  can cause numbness or weakness, urinary tract infections, delayed healing, and  allergic reactions to the metal.
several genes that might contribute to an  inherited risk are under investigation.
these drugs help reduce nsaid-induced  ulcer rates by as much as 80% compared with no treatment.
the studies of thousands of patients with chronic  osteoarthritis pain compared acupuncture to conventional treatment (such as  physical therapy and anti-inflammatory drugs).
extracts of  these substances have been used in europe for more than a decade to reduce pain  and improve mobility in patients with osteoarthritis.
joint replacement surgery in elderly  patients with severe osteoarthritis of the hip or knee: decision making,  postoperative recovery, and clinical outcomes.
according to  this theory, the cartilage absorbs the immune factors released in this process.
it is best  used in heavier adults who are under 60 years old.
mutations in the ank gene may result in lower pyrophosphate levels in the joint, leading to accumulation of mineral deposits and arthritis.
cartilage transplants.
genetic factors may be involved in about half  of osteoarthritis cases in the hands and hips, and in a somewhat lower  percentage of cases in the knee.
joint replacement (arthroplasty) when osteoarthritis becomes so severe that pain and immobility make normal  functioning impossible, many people become candidates for artificial  (prosthetic) joint implants using a procedure called arthroplasty.
because long-term use of  corticosteroids has many potentially serious side effects, steroid medications  are never given by mouth or systemically for the treatment of osteoarthritis.
back to  top introduction osteoarthritis, also known as degenerative joint disease, is the most  common form of arthritis.
experts recommend that patients try lifestyle changes (exercise and weight loss), braces, and medication before having knee surgery.
for example, mutations in the ank gene may be important in some cases.
click the icon to see an illustrated series detailing knee  arthroscopy surgery.
strengthening the thigh  muscles is certainly protective for people who have not yet developed  osteoarthritis.
it can cause nausea but does not cause  severe gastrointestinal problems, as nsaids can.
certain surgical  procedures can help relieve pain if medications fail.
large amounts of mmps  break down collagen, the building blocks of cartilage.
something as  simple as sleeping on a bad mattress or as serious as cancer can mirror  symptoms of osteoarthritis.
there are different options available for attaching it to the adjoining bones: minimally invasive hip replacement surgery.
isometric training builds muscle strength while burning fat, helps maintain bone density, and improves digestion.
uncemented arthroplasty using porous material has shown good results for the hip, although it may be less successful for knee replacement.
a ceramic implant may prove to last longer than other materials and be a safe option for younger patients.
osteoarthritis: the disease process deterioration of cartilage.
mutations in the ank gene may result in lower  pyrophosphate levels in the joint, leading to accumulation of mineral deposits  and arthritis.
arthroscopy is most likely to benefit people with evidence of bone and cartilage fragments in the joint, or patients whose joints lock or catch with movement.
the biological factors leading to the deterioration of cartilage in osteoarthritis are not entirely understood.
this essential protein in cartilage forms a mesh to give the  joint support and flexibility.
if patients fail to improve on a home program, a  referral to a physical therapist may be beneficial.
these exercises increase the amount of  movement in a joint and muscle.
arthroscopy arthroscopy is performed to clean out bone and cartilage fragments that, in  theory at least, may cause pain and inflammation.
many of these devices allow  some movement within the affected joint and do not restrict nearby joints.
research and debate continues on whether arthroscopy provides true benefits for those with osteoarthritis and, if so, which patients may benefit the most from it.
joints need motion to stay healthy.
(artificial knee joints generally have a range of motion of just 110  degrees.)
there has been some question about the role of strenuous  exercise in osteoarthritis.
elevated uric acid levels in the blood may indicate gout.
always check with your doctor before using any herbal remedies or dietary supplements.
advanced disease may result in numbness and muscle weakness.
if the affected joint cannot be replaced, surgeons can perform a procedure called arthrodesis that eliminates pain by fusing the bones together.
while full recovery may take older patients  longer than younger people, the long-term outcome of the surgery is excellent,  and leads to significant improvements in pain and quality of life.
it is recommended for relatively sedentary patients who are 60 years or older and not obese.
the following are some of the medications used in mild-to-severe cases: acetaminophen (tylenol, anacin-3, panadol, phenaphen, valadol, and others) is currently the first choice for treating osteoarthritis.
a high white blood cell count is a sign of infection.
such individuals should  check with a physical therapist for the best options.
some patients experience  severe itching.
the cartilage is a slippery tissue that coats the ends of  the bones.
the procedure involves a small incision and insertion of small implants.
specific complications include the following: rehabilitation.
a moderate exercise program that includes low-impact aerobics and power and strength training has benefits for osteoarthritic patients, even if exercise does not slow down the disease progression.
in high amounts, it also may have anti-inflammatory effects.
in addition, the body's ability to  repair cartilage decreases with increasing age.
corticosteroid shots  are useful only if inflammation is present in the joint.
x-rays of joints affected with rheumatoid arthritis show changes in the  bones that differ from those occurring in osteoarthritis.
2007;357(14): 1413-1421.
abnormal stress or injuries joint damage from injuries or recurrent stress to the joint is the starting  point in the osteoarthritis disease process.
hip  replacement is the most established and successful replacement procedure,  followed by knee replacement.
the results have been good to excellent, although long-term benefits are questionable.
the patients report less pain and  are usually able to go home within 48 hours after surgery.
likewise, some people may have minimal symptoms even though an  x-ray clearly shows they have arthritis.
it is recommended for relatively  sedentary patients who are 60 years or older and not obese.
osteoarthritis of the hip.
tetracycline antibiotics, such as doxycycline, may have a role to play in  treating osteoarthritis.
the joints are less inflamed than in other arthritic conditions.
the process is usually slow.
these exercises help control weight and may reduce inflammation in some joints.
common side effects include anxiety, constipation, nausea and vomiting, dizziness, drowsiness, paranoia, urinary retention, restlessness, and labored or slow breathing.
osteoarthritis is less common in the shoulder area than in  other joints, but it may develop in the shoulder joint (the glenohumeral  joint).
shots of hyaluronic acid (such as hyalgan, synvisc, artzal, and nuflexxa) into the joint -- a procedure called viscosupplementation -- are one of the recommended treatments for osteoarthritis.
a wide variety of devices are available to help support and protect joints: many medications are available for relieving the symptoms of osteoarthritis.
another theory suggests that the inflammatory response is triggered by the changes and injuries in the bone that occur during osteoarthritis.
the cartilage is a slippery tissue that coats the ends of the bones.
such individuals should check with a physical therapist for the best options.
such ulcers are also more likely to  bleed than those caused by the bacteriah. pylori.
more research is needed to confirm benefits and long-term risks.
according to one study, the optimal treatment length is 40 minutes.
j bone joint surg am.
the inflammatory response  plays an important role in rheumatoid arthritis and other muscle and joint  problems associated with autoimmune diseases.
inflammatory response and matrix metalloproteinases the inflammatory response is an overreaction of the immune system to an  injury or other assault in the body, such as an infection.
when osteoarthritis becomes so severe that pain and immobility make normal functioning impossible, many people become candidates for artificial (prosthetic) joint implants using a procedure called arthroplasty.
surgical expertise is important for avoiding this complication.
high dosages  of nsaids can cause heart problems (such as increased blood pressure), kidney  problems, and stomach bleeding.
furthermore, many factors  associated with a sedentary life (muscle weakness, obesity) are associated with  a higher risk for osteoarthritis.
acetaminophen may be less effective than nsaids in reducing moderate-to-severe pain.
if a second arthroplasty is required, the potential for complications is magnified: more bone is cut, more blood is lost, and the operation takes longer.
however, no strong evidence to date supports  its use.
(patients with osteoarthritis should avoid high-impact sports, such  as jogging, tennis, and racquetball.)
physical therapy takes about 6 weeks to rebuild adjoining muscle and strengthen surrounding ligaments.
some research indicates that obesity may produce an inflammatory response, which is now a major suspect in age-related diseases -- not only osteoarthritis but also heart disease.
in such cases, it is most often associated with a previous injury, and patients gradually develop pain and stiffness in the back of the shoulder.
it sometimes occurs in the wrist, elbows, shoulders, and jaw, but it is  not common in these locations.
newer, longer-lasting materials, however, may help reduce  the rate of revision operations.
some examples include: a number of other blood tests may help identify other rheumatological illnesses.
in such cases, it is most often associated with a previous injury, and  patients gradually develop pain and stiffness in the back of the shoulder.
older cement prostheses have a particularly high rate of bone loss and loosening due to cement deterioration.
it is composed of two pieces: the prosthesis is usually made of a metal alloy and plastic.
in addition to  pain relief, licofelone may actually slow down the progression of  osteoarthritis.
there are also other causes, such as some birth defects, trauma, and metabolic disorders.
osteotomy for treating knee osteoarthritis.
nearly all vertebrates suffer from osteoarthritis,  including porpoises and whales, as did dinosaurs.
the risks are  highest in the first 3 months.
this response causes  specific immune factors, called cytokines, to gather in injured areas and cause  inflammation and damage to body tissue and cells.
for many years, researchers in the u.s. have been studying whether these dietary supplements really work for relieving osteoarthritis pain.
wrapping the knee with special therapeutic tape that provides support to  specific parts of the joint may be effective.
research  and debate continues on whether arthroscopy provides true benefits for those  with osteoarthritis and, if so, which patients may benefit the most from it.
obesity, defined as being 20% over one's healthy weight, places people (particularly women) at increased risk for osteoarthritis.
canes, crutches, or walkers offer benefits to patients with advanced  arthritis.
a number of rare genetic diseases attack the joints.
the joint's range of motion is often reduced, and normal movement is often painful.
best success rates are with a specific approach into the kneecap  called the lateral midpatellar.
it is important  to consult with a doctor about how to use elastic supports.
among the groups at high risk for bleeding are elderly people, anyone with  a history of ulcers or digestive tract bleeding, patients with serious heart  conditions, alcohol abusers, and those on certain medications, such  anticoagulants ("blood thinners"), corticosteroids, or  bisphosphonates (drugs used for osteoporosis).
corticosteroids when pain becomes a major problem and less potent pain relievers are  ineffective, doctors may try corticosteroid (steroid) injections, usually by  giving the patient a shot in their joint every 3 months.
a firm mattress also often proves beneficial.
patients receive a series of three to five shots spread a week apart.
steroid injection for  osteoarthritis of the hip: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial.
low-level laser therapy (lllt) generates extremely pure light in a single wavelength.
when  two joints, such as both knees, need to be replaced, having the operations done  sequentially rather than at the same time may result in fewer complications.
many patients who begin an aerobic or resistance exercise program report less disability and pain.
they are used most frequently to treat  arthritic hands, wrists, knees, ankles, and feet.
there are no current recommended dosages.
it has a number of essential parts, including:click the icon to see an image of the synovial membrane and cartilage in the knee joint.
low-impact workouts also help  stabilize and support the joint.
high dosages of nsaids can cause heart problems (such as increased blood pressure), kidney problems, and stomach bleeding.
the safety records of both substances appear  excellent.
osteoarthritis cartilage.
another gene, called the osteoprotegerin gene, is important in regulating  bone and cartilage formation.
even with these  procedures, however, joint replacement may still be needed later on.
the use of such drugs may be beneficial when included as part of a  comprehensive pain management program.
during the first few days of use, the patient will experience a warm, stinging sensation when the cream is applied.
[epub ahead of print] pelletier jp, martel-pelletier j. dmoad developments: present and future.
the increase in exercise  intensity by young girls, including increased incidence of significant  injuries, has raised concerns that we may see an increase in the incidence of  future osteoarthritis.
corticosteroid shots are useful only if inflammation is present in the joint.
these joints may develop small, solid  lumps (nodules) known as bouchard's nodes.
although the following is mostly a description of hip replacement surgery,  the principles are similar for other arthroplasty surgeries.
although many  studies report positive results, including improved quality of life, very few  of them have been rigorously conducted.
celecoxib (celebrex) is still available, but patients should discuss with their doctors whether this drug is appropriate and safe for them.
no good evidence indicates that ginger provides a benefit for osteoarthritis.
osteoarthritis also tends to favor specific joints over  others in certain ethnic groups.
some experts recommend cement implants over cementless ones for  total knee arthroplasty.
low-level laser therapy low-level laser therapy (lllt) generates extremely pure light in a single  wavelength.
intensive education on how to protect and care for an osteoarthritic joint may help patients avoid multiple visits to their doctor.
chondrocalcinosis has been called pseudogout or  pseudo-osteoarthritis, the latter particularly when it affects the knees.
a 2 yr longitudinal radiographic study examining the effect of a bisphosphonate (risedronate) upon subchondral bone loss in osteoarthritic knee patients.
the study could not account for the differences among  men, however.
(dependence  and abuse have been reported, however.)
advanced disease may result in numbness and  muscle weakness.
in resection arthroplasty, a false joint of scar tissue is created.
physical therapy takes about 6 weeks to rebuild adjoining muscle and  strengthen surrounding ligaments.
about 60% of people with osteoarthritis have mineral deposits in their cartilage.
however,  several high-quality studies involving large numbers of patients have indicated  that, in general, glucosamine and chondroitin do not seem to provide any more  help than a placebo for the symptoms of osteoarthritis.
the prevalence of osteoarthritis increases with age.
although the use of narcotics for arthritic pain is controversial, many  studies have suggested that they are rarely addictive for pain sufferers except  among patients with a history of substance abuse.
as the disease progresses and more tissue is lost, the cartilage starts to  get hard.
the ank gene regulates pyrophosphate, a  chemical that inhibits the formation of mineral deposits, and may protect the  cartilage in joints.
herbs and supplements generally, manufacturers of herbal remedies and dietary supplements do not  need fda approval to sell their products.
porous hip prostheses  are more likely to produce thigh pain than cement implants, although advanced  techniques using a tapered shaft are reducing this complication.
for example, they should take  antibiotics before invasive dental procedures or other surgery because bacteria  can be introduced into the bloodstream and infect the areas around the  artificial joints.
thigh pain can occur after hip replacement.
in addition, the body's ability to repair cartilage decreases with increasing age.
as the body tries to repair damage to the cartilage, problems can  develop: clusters of damaged cells or fluid-filled cysts may form around the bony  areas or near the fissures in the cartilage.
asians appear to have a higher incidence of osteoarthritis in the knee, an  equal risk for osteoarthritis in the spine, and a lower risk for osteoarthritis  in the hips compared to caucasians.
some research suggests that women may also experience greater muscle and joint pain, in general, than men.
early complications of primary total hip  replacement performed with a two-incision minimally invasive technique.
some studies suggest that immune factors called vascular endothelial growth factor (vegf) are overproduced during the inflammatory response and in turn increase production of mmps.
workers at higher risk.
fissures and pits appear in the cartilage.
they  are usually made from lightweight metal, leather, elastic, foam, and moldable  plastic with easy-to-use velcro straps.
according to one study, people who live in warmer places are actually more sensitive to small shifts in temperature than people who live in cold damp climates, and they feel pain as readily as their northern peers do in response to larger temperature shifts.
back to top many doctors suggest first trying lifestyle changes to reduce stress on affected joints.
when a joint is inflamed (particularly in the knee) applying ice for 20 - 30 minutes can be effective.
certain occupations with repeated stressful motions (such as squatting or kneeling with heavy lifting) can contribute to the deterioration of cartilage.
exercise: three types of exercise are best for people with  osteoarthritis: strengthening exercises, which include isometric exercises (pushing or  pulling against static resistance).
once they have been diagnosed with osteoarthritis, patients should reduce shock to the affected joint.
osteoarthritis is less common in the shoulder area than in other joints, but it may develop in the shoulder joint (the glenohumeral joint).
as the disease advances, the pain may  occur even when the joint is at rest.
cycling and walking are beneficial, and swimming or exercising in water is highly recommended, for people with arthritis.
any incidence of unexplained weight loss and fatigue may be symptoms of  this uncommon event.
osteoarthritis can generally be distinguished from other joint diseases by considering several factors together: below are a few of the most common disorders that can be confused with, or may even accompany, osteoarthritis.
this is the  most common symptom of osteoarthritis.
mutations in this gene may also play a role in  osteoarthritis.
arthroscopic debridement for knee osteoarthritis.
cochrane database syst rev. 2008;(1):cd005118.
patients who take high doses of this drug for long  periods are at risk for liver damage, particularly if they drink alcohol and do  not eat regularly.
long-term effects are still unknown, but studies of up to 3 years  have reported no significant side effects.
prosthetic hips should not be flexed beyond 90 degrees, so patients must  learn new ways to perform activities requiring bending down (like tying a shoe).
click the icon to  see an image of the knee joint.
generally, manufacturers of herbal remedies and dietary supplements do not need fda approval to sell their products.
a major analysis indicated that drug therapy is generally more effective than non-drug treatments (surgery, acupuncture).
exercise especially helps patients with mild-to-moderate osteoarthritis in  the hip or in the knee.
experts recommend that patients try lifestyle changes (exercise and weight  loss), braces, and medication before having knee surgery.
blood test results may help identify other causes of arthritis (if present) besides osteoarthritis.
acetaminophen is inexpensive and generally safe.
genes that determine the angles, amount of force, and other structural  factors in the hip joints, or genes that regulate the chemistry in the joints,  may account for ethnic differences.
it also worsens  osteoarthritis once deterioration begins.
cartilage loss is suggested by  certain characteristics of the images: the normal space between the bones in a joint is narrowed.
while many patients find that joint replacement provides remarkable pain relief and restores some mobility, they need time to adjust to the artificial joint.
tramadol for osteoarthritis: a systematic  review and metaanalysis.
accurate placement of the needle directly into the knee joint space is important and may be difficult, even for experienced doctors, if there is no fluid build-up in the joint.
some examples include: elevated levels of rheumatoid factor (specific antibodies in the synovium)  are usually found in patients with rheumatoid arthritis
long-term use of nsaids does not actually delay the progression of osteoarthritis and may increase patients' risk of side effects.
the surgeon attaches the knee  with pins to an external frame-like device that lengthens the deformed part of  the knee over several weeks.
however, when acupuncture  treatment was compared to sham acupuncture, any benefit was minimal.
scientists now believe osteoarthritis results from a combination of genetic problems and joint injuries.
patients are also generally older and more vulnerable to complications.
osteoarthritis of the hand occurs most often in older women and may be inherited within families.
people in occupations with repetitive and stressful movement should find ways to reduce trauma.
infection is a major cause of early failure and  always requires revision.
patients who rely on painkilling drugs may overuse knees, which do not have muscle tissue sufficiently strong enough to protect the joints from further damage.
ginger (zingiberaceae).
the following joints are most frequently  affected: distal interphalangeal (dip) joint.
these large molecules help make up cartilage.
the results have been good to excellent, although long-term  benefits are questionable.
in one study, older adults who practiced the gentle movement, breathing, and meditation exercises of tai chi for 10 weeks reported less pain than their peers who did not learn the technique.
the patients report less pain and are usually able to go home within 48 hours after surgery.
transcutaneous electric nerve stimulation transcutaneous electric nerve stimulation (tens) uses low-level electrical  pulses to suppress pain.
some experts suggest, however, that joint  replacement should be considered earlier rather than as a last resort.
interestingly, moving to a warm climate does not seem to make much  difference.
the primary reason for implant failure is osteolysis (bone  destruction) caused by long-term wear.
cicero af, laghi l. activity and potential role of licofelone in the management of osteoarthritis.
isometric training  builds muscle strength while burning fat, helps maintain bone density, and  improves digestion.
in general, the highest prevalence of arthritis in the united states occurs in the central and northwestern states.
a ceramic  implant may prove to last longer than other materials and be a safe option for  younger patients.
the rates in older  adults are lowest (34%) in hawaii and highest (70%) in alabama.
there are two types of narcotics: opiates, which are derived from natural opium (morphine and codeine) opioids, which are synthetic drugs.
minimally invasive  hip replacement can be done with 1 or 2 incisions.
bone cells may respond to damage by multiplying, growing, and forming  dense, misshapen plates around exposed areas.
the procedure may ease symptoms and slow disease progression.
buckland-wright jc, messent ea, bingham co 3rd, et al.
cartilage is one of the few tissues in the body that does not have  its own blood supply.
pain develops slowly, usually in the groin and on the outside of the hips, or sometimes in the buttocks.
in the u.s., caucasians and african-americans have higher rates of arthritis than hispanics or other ethnic groups.
if an ice pack is not available, a  package of frozen vegetables works just as well.
proton-pump inhibitors are the most effective drugs.
sports that definitely pose a higher risk for osteoarthritis have repetitive or direct joint impact (such as football), joint twisting, or both (baseball pitching, soccer).
the procedure uses special instruments and a shorter incision (3 -  6 inches vs. 10 - 12 inches in traditional hip replacement).
relief from pain and inflammation is of short duration, and this treatment is rarely used for chronic osteoarthritis.
in high amounts, it also may have  anti-inflammatory effects.
et al. effect of glucosamine sulfate on hip osteoarthritis: a randomized trial.
once in the cartilage, these immune factors suppress cartilage cell growth, and activate mmps.
aerobic, or endurance, exercises help control weight and may reduce  inflammation in some joints.
cox-2 inhibitors (coxibs) coxibs inhibit an inflammation-promoting enzyme called cox-2.
rheumatoid arthritis begins  in the synovial membrane rather than the cartilage.
in some cases, the nerves may become  pinched, which also produces pain.
being obese increases the risk.
zhang w, moskowitz rw, nuki g, et al.
a doctor can usually differentiate between the two disorders, however, because chondrocalcinosis usually damages other joints (such as wrists, elbows, and shoulders) that are not normally affected by osteoarthritis.
it normally occurs earlier  in life than osteoarthritis, often striking people in their 30s and 40s.
osteoarthritis may be confused with rheumatoid arthritis, particularly when osteoarthritis affects multiple joints in the body.
wound infection occurs in about 0.2% of joint replacements and  requires prompt removal of the implant to treat the infection.
back to top diagnosis osteoarthritis is often visible in x-rays.
overview: osteoarthritis, also known as degenerative joint disease, is the most common form of arthritis.
after age 45, it develops more  often in females.
osteoarthritis  of the hip can be treated with heating pads.
other complications.
(dependence and abuse have been reported, however.)
as the body tries to repair damage to the cartilage, problems can develop: unlike some other types of arthritis, such as rheumatoid arthritis, osteoarthritis does not spread through the entire body.
the patient is urged and aided into getting out of bed and walking the day after surgery.
however, inflammation may play an important role in the progression of  osteoarthritis and in its chronic nature.
kelley's textbook of rheumatology, 7th ed.
osteoarthritis also can develop in the acromioclavicular (ac) joint, which is  between the shoulder blade and the collarbone.
patients in the  national institute of health's gait trial took 1,500 mg of glucosamine and  1,200 mg of chondroitin.
it is a long-term disease of the joint cartilage and bone, commonly thought to result from "wear and tear" on a joint.
the increase in exercise intensity by young girls, including increased incidence of significant injuries, has raised concerns that we may see an increase in the incidence of future osteoarthritis.
back to top alternative and complementary medicine glucosamine hydrochloride and chondroitin sulfate are natural substances  that are part of the building blocks found in and around cartilage.
laupattarakasem w, laopaiboon m, laupattarakasem p, et al.
the affected joint in patients with osteoarthritis will generally be tender to pressure right along the joint line.
if patients fail to improve on a home program, a referral to a physical therapist may be beneficial.
it normally occurs earlier in life than osteoarthritis, often striking people in their 30s and 40s.
other cartilage transplant procedures are also under study.
initial results from clinical trials suggest that  doxycycline may help delay joint space narrowing.
hip resurfacing is a surgical alternative to  total hip replacement.
nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (nsaids) nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (nsaids) block prostaglandins, the  substances that dilate blood vessels and cause inflammation and pain.
however, it rarely causes symptoms in this location.
elderly patients with poorly controlled osteoarthritis often do very well  after joint replacement surgery.
the use of such drugs may be beneficial when included as part of a comprehensive pain management program.
2008;16(2):137-162.back to top treating major depression meditation and stress cravings and weight loss your rights as a patient flu overview sleep and pain flu prevention the role of a caregiver how to quit for good cold and flu smarts for kids diet & energy choosing bone density tests bmi calculator calcium calculator diabetes risk quiz heart attack risk calculator calories burned calculator colon cancer risk quiz
the primary indications for surgery are pain and significant limitations of movement, including walking, that cannot be treated by less invasive therapies.
investigational therapies researchers are studying various drugs that may provide pain relief or stop  the disease process itself: the treatments below are still experimental, and  may not be available to patients in the united states.
both nsaids and cox-2 inhibitors are equally effective for pain relief and  pose similar risks for heart attacks.
a major analysis reported weak evidence  on any real effect of hydrotherapy on pain or quality of life, but some  patients may find comfort in this pleasant therapy.
steroid injection for osteoarthritis of the hip: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial.
patients who rely on  painkilling drugs may overuse knees, which do not have muscle tissue  sufficiently strong enough to protect the joints from further damage.
improper balancing of the ligaments and other tissues surrounding the joint and resulting poor joint stability is also a common reason for failure of arthroplasty.
botulinum toxin type a (botox) injections are being investigated for  patients with knee osteoarthritis.
other cartilage transplant procedures are also  under study.
for patients with arthritis in the hip or knees, exercises that strengthen the muscles of the upper leg are important.
some research suggests that women may also experience greater  muscle and joint pain, in general, than men.
this procedure, which requires an extremely experienced surgeon, uses special instruments and a shorter incision (3 - 6 inches vs. 10 - 12 inches in traditional hip replacement).
common side effects  include anxiety, constipation, nausea and vomiting, dizziness, drowsiness,  paranoia, urinary retention, restlessness, and labored or slow breathing.
if the doctor suspects other conditions, or if the diagnosis is uncertain,  additional tests are necessary.
these drugs may not be as effective for women as they  are for men.
a reassuring study found no greater disease progression in people who had injections every 3 months for 2 years compared to those who were given sham injections on the same schedule.
the joint is usually stable  until the disease reaches an advanced stage when the knee becomes enlarged and  swollen.
fortunately, advances in cement and prosthetic implants are improving the implant survival rates and reducing the need for revision procedures.
the patient is urged and aided into getting out of bed and walking the day  after surgery.
these exercises increase the amount of movement in a joint and muscle.
osteoarthritis of the spine is most troublesome when it occurs  in the lower back or in the neck, where it can cause difficulty in swallowing.
click the icon to see an  image of a dislocated hip.
other problems that can cause aches and pains in the joints include physical injuries, infections, tendinitis, and poor circulation.
however, following numerous reports of cardiovascular events, as well as skin rashes and other adverse effects, the fda has been re-evaluating the relative risks and benefits of this drug class.
acupuncture is being increasingly used to reduce osteoarthritis pain.
knees, for example, sustain an impact three to five  times the body weight when descending stairs.
cartilage contains a lot of water, which decreases with age.
a rigorous 2002 trial, however, found that arthroscopic knee surgery was no  more effective than sham surgery (in which surgeons only pretended to operate  on the knee) for relief of osteoarthritic pain or stiffness.
recreational weight-bearing exercise (walking, jogging), done by middle-aged and elderly people, neither prevents osteoarthritis nor increases risk.
a review of trials reported that  both methods were better than placebo (sham treatments) in treating  osteoarthritis of the knee, although additional well-designed studies are  needed.
the specific procedure depends on whether the  bone defects that occurred arecontained or uncontained.
complicating the process are abnormalities in the bone around arthritic  joints.
in the early stages of disease, the surface of the cartilage, or the  synovium (joint lining) in some people, becomes inflamed and swollen.
as a result, the bone beneath the cartilage changes and develops bony overgrowth.
the greater the weight loss, the  greater the benefit.
if only a certain section (the medial compartment) of the knee is damaged and deformed by osteoarthritis, the surgeon may choose to perform an osteotomy: hemicallotasis.
anticoagulant therapy is given during the  hospital stay and continued for several weeks at home.
chondrocalcinosis has been called pseudogout or pseudo-osteoarthritis, the latter particularly when it affects the knees.
these studies showed positive results lasting for up to 6 months after treatment.
there are also other causes, such as some birth defects, trauma, and metabolic  disorders.
this joint then begins to lose  water.
some occupations with repeated stressful motions can contribute to the  deterioration of cartilage.
a  moderate exercise program that includes low-impact aerobics and power and  strength training has benefits for osteoarthritic patients, even if exercise  does not slow down the disease progression.
osteoarthritis is commonly identified by the following symptoms: pain that worsens during activity and gets better during rest.
drugs for prevention nsaid-induced ulcers.
opioids may have a place in osteoarthritis treatment when milder drugs are not effective or appropriate.
regular and moderate exercise, however, is important for everyone and does not increase the risk for osteoarthritis.
gregory pj, sperry m, wilson af.
the differences may be due to different  approaches, and standardized methods are needed before any benefits can be  shown.
this surgeion must be extremely  experienced.
the following are some examples: genes that determine the angles, amount of force, and other structural factors in the hip joints, or genes that regulate the chemistry in the joints, may account for ethnic differences.
a reassuring study found no greater disease progression in  people who had injections every 3 months for 2 years compared to those who were  given sham injections on the same schedule.
it retains important knee ligaments,  which preserve more movement than a total knee replacement.
side effects are the same as for each  of these drugs.
a clinical comparative study of  the direct anterior with mini-posterior approach two consecutive series.
in general, the  highest prevalence of arthritis in the united states occurs in the central and  northwestern states.
three types of exercise are best for people with osteoarthritis: strengthening exercise.
acupuncture acupuncture is being increasingly used to reduce osteoarthritis pain.
this pad cushions the ends of the bones in the joint during  muscle movement.
patients with knee  injuries may be up to five times more likely to have osteoarthritis in the  injured knee than those without injuries, and patients with hip injuries may be  more than three times more likely to develop arthritis in the injured hip.
click the icon to see an image of cholesterol.
any brace, splint, or other device for  joint protection should be custom-fitted by a physical or occupational  therapist, or an orthotist.
these exercises help control weight  and may reduce inflammation in some joints.
unicompartmental knee  arthroplasty (also called unicondylar knee arthroplasty)
in people with known osteoarthritis, researchers may look for certain  factors in synovial fluid (sulfated glycosaminoglycan, keratin sulfate, and  link protein) that can suggest a more or less severe condition.
five percent of people who leave the work  force do so because of osteoarthritis.
jobs that involve lifting, climbing stairs, or walking also pose some risk.
they include oxycodone (such as  percodan, percocet, roxicodone, and oxycontin), hydrocodone (vicodin),  oxymorphone (numorphan), and fentanyl (duragesic)
as chondrocytes (the cells that make up cartilage) age, they lose their ability to make repairs and produce more cartilage.
in general, they are stretching exercises.
charcot's joint charcot's joint occurs when an underlying disease, usually diabetes, causes  nerve damage in the joint, which leads to swelling, bleeding, increased  temperature, and changes in bone.
heel wedges in the shoes can sometimes  help patients avoid knee replacement surgery.
dietary supplements for osteoarthritis.
although osteoarthritis is primarily a disease of joints, bone strength is also important, particularly in older people.
a major analysis indicated that drug therapy is generally more  effective than non-drug treatments (surgery, acupuncture).
arthrotec is a combination of misoprostol and the nsaid  diclofenac.
low-impact workouts also help stabilize and support the joint.
if you have nsaid-induced ulcers, follow these steps: healing existing ulcers.
many patients who begin an aerobic or resistance  exercise program report less disability and pain.
hip resurfacing is a surgical alternative to total hip replacement.
this sensation goes away, and pain relief usually begins within 1 - 2 weeks.
it may provide more stability, a faster recovery, and greater range of motion,  making it a potentially good option for young, physically active patients.
this  poses a very small risk (0.9%) for pulmonary embolism -- a dangerous condition  in which the clot travels to the lungs.
location of osteoarthritis unlike some other types of arthritis, such as rheumatoid arthritis,  osteoarthritis does not spread through the entire body.
relief from pain and  inflammation is of short duration, and this treatment is rarely used for  chronic osteoarthritis.
some researchers are combining lllt with transcutaneous electric nerve stimulation (tens).
three types of exercise are best for people with osteoarthritis: strengthening exercise range-of-motion exercise aerobic, or endurance, exercise strengthening exercise.
osteoarthritis can generally be distinguished from other joint diseases by  considering several factors together: osteoarthritis usually occurs in older people and is located in only one  or a few joints.
if the doctor can withdraw fluid, problems are likely, and the fluid will be tested for factors that might confirm or rule out osteoarthritis:
this boxed warning emphasizes an increased risk for cardiovascular events and gastrointestinal bleeding in people taking these drugs.
nakata k, nishikawa m, yamamoto k, et al.
if the affected joint cannot be replaced, surgeons  can perform a procedure called arthrodesis that eliminates pain by fusing the  bones together.
it poses far less of a risk for gastrointestinal problems than nsaids and does not appear to increase the risk for miscarriage (as nsaids do), even when used regularly.
osteoarthritis is particularly debilitating in the  weight-bearing joints of the knees.
bisphosphonates such as alendronate (fosamax) and risedronate (actonel)  help prevent bone loss in people with osteoporosis.
the surgeon attaches the knee with pins to an external frame-like device that lengthens the deformed part of the knee over several weeks.
no treatment can cure osteoarthritis, and none can alter its progression with certainty, but many available treatments can relieve symptoms and significantly improve the quality of life.
it has opioid-like properties but is not as addictive.
however, following numerous reports of  cardiovascular events, as well as skin rashes and other adverse effects, the  fda has been re-evaluating the relative risks and benefits of this drug class.
in another blood test, levels of a factor called erythrocyte sedimentation rate (esr) are often elevated in rheumatoid arthritis, but they are generally normal in osteoarthritis.
such ulcers are also more likely to bleed than those caused by the bacteriah. pylori.
this condition  affects about 25% of the population and can accompany and even worsen  osteoarthritis.
the first joint below the  fingertips is the most common location of osteoarthritis of the hand.
in the u.s., osteoarthritis affects about 12.1% of adults over 25 (21  million people).
about  85% of cartilage is water in young people.
these drugs may not be as effective for women as they are for men.
unicompartmental knee arthroplasty.
s-adenosylmethionine (same,  pronounced "sammy") is a synthetic form of a natural byproduct of the  amino acid methionine.
osteoarthritis in any of these locations can cause pain, muscle spasms, and diminished mobility.
the risks are highest in the first 3 months.
as a result, the bone beneath the cartilage changes and develops bony  overgrowth.
however, when acupuncture treatment was compared to sham acupuncture, any benefit was minimal.
it does not produce heat and is painless.
extracts of these substances have been used in europe for more than a decade to reduce pain and improve mobility in patients with osteoarthritis.
best success rates are with a specific approach into the kneecap called the lateral midpatellar.
infection is a major cause of early failure and always requires revision.
2008;148(4):268-277.
the prosthesis is usually made of a metal alloy and plastic.
click the icon to see an image of the knee joint.
nsaid-induced ulcers and gastrointestinal bleeding long-term use of nsaids is the second most common cause of ulcers, and the  rate of nsaid-caused ulcers is increasing.
at the margins of the joint, the bone may produce outcroppings, on which  new cartilage cells (chondrocytes) multiply and grow abnormally.
recreational weight-bearing  exercise (walking, jogging), done by middle-aged and elderly people, neither  prevents osteoarthritis nor increases risk.
scientists now believe osteoarthritis results from a  combination of genetic problems and joint injuries.
blood tests blood test results may help identify other causes of arthritis (if present)  besides osteoarthritis.
in resection arthroplasty, a false joint  of scar tissue is created.
many experts believe that  osteoarthritis results from a genetic susceptibility that causes some  biological response to injuries to the joint, which in turn leads to  progressive deterioration of cartilage.
if people cannot change drugs, they should  use the lowest nsaid dose possible.
because there are usually no  gastrointestinal symptoms from nsaids until bleeding begins, doctors cannot  predict which patients taking these drugs will develop bleeding.
below are a few of the most common disorders that can be confused with, or  may even accompany, osteoarthritis.
legs of unequal length or skewed feet can cause jerky  movement and may cause osteoarthritis.
[for more information, seein-depth report #53: weight loss and diet.] calcium and vitamin d. calcium and vitamin d are important for strong bones.
chondrocalcinosis is a disease in which calcium crystals known as cppd (calcium pyrophosphate dihydrate) accumulate in the joints.
according to one study, people who live in warmer places are  actually more sensitive to small shifts in temperature than people who live in  cold damp climates, and they feel pain as readily as their northern peers do in  response to larger temperature shifts.
it may relieve pain  and delay the need for a total knee replacement.
the procedure preserves much of the bone, so that a standard hip replacement can be done years later if needed.
in the u.s.,  caucasians and african-americans have higher rates of arthritis than hispanics  or other ethnic groups.
they wore the tape for 3  weeks, and pain relief continued for 3 more weeks following treatment.
obesity places people (particularly women) at a higher risk for  osteoarthritis.
earlier studies indicated a potential benefit from these agents.
in this disorder, a joint  loses cartilage, the slippery material that cushions the ends of bones, over  time.
as  chondrocytes (the cells that make up cartilage) age, they lose their ability to  make repairs and produce more cartilage.
in another blood test, levels  of a factor called erythrocyte sedimentation rate (esr) are often elevated in  rheumatoid arthritis, but they are generally normal in osteoarthritis.
click the icon to see an  image of osteoarthritis.
back to top causes the biological factors leading to the deterioration of cartilage in  osteoarthritis are not entirely understood.
this higher risk is due to increased weight on the joints.
one study found that patients taking arthrotec had 65 - 80% fewer  ulcers than those who took nsaids alone.
a  doctor can usually differentiate between the two disorders, however, because  chondrocalcinosis usually damages other joints (such as wrists, elbows, and  shoulders) that are not normally affected by osteoarthritis.
older cement prostheses have a particularly high rate of bone loss and  loosening due to cement deterioration.
click the icon to see an  image of a gastric ulcer.
it does have some adverse effects, however, and the daily dose should not  exceed 4 grams (4,000 mg).
while full recovery may take older patients longer than younger people, the long-term outcome of the surgery is excellent, and leads to significant improvements in pain and quality of life.
no treatment can cure  osteoarthritis, and none can alter its progression with certainty, but many  available treatments can relieve symptoms and significantly improve the quality  of life.
rozendaal rm, koes bw, van osch gj,
osteoarthritis is particularly debilitating in the weight-bearing joints of the knees.
[for more information, seein-depth report #53: weight control  and diet.] work and leisure factors because injuries can trigger the disease process, people whose work or  leisure activities place them at risk for muscle and joint injuries may face a  higher risk for osteoarthritis later on.
cost can run $60 - 120 per month.
the best examples are yoga and tai chi, which focus on flexibility, balance, and proper breathing.
the incidence of osteoarthritis is highest in people with lower educational levels.
researchers are studying various drugs that may provide pain relief or stop the disease process itself: the treatments below are still experimental, and may not be available to patients in the united states.
although osteoarthritis generally accompanies aging, osteoarthritic cartilage is chemically different from normal cartilage of the same age.
complicating the process are abnormalities in the bone around arthritic joints.
the inflammatory response is an overreaction of the immune system to an injury or other assault in the body, such as an infection.
this process may play an important role in the development and progression of osteoarthritis.
there are  dozens of nsaids available: over-the-counter nsaids include aspirin, ibuprofen (such as advil, nuprin,  motrin ib, and rufen), naproxen (such as aleve and naprosyn), ketoprofen (such  as actron and orudis kt).
other joint procedures resection arthroplasty.
another gene, called the osteoprotegerin gene, is important in regulating bone and cartilage formation.
cicero af, laghi l. activity and potential role of licofelone in the  management of osteoarthritis.
unless alleviated by medication or corrected by surgery, a patien with advanced osteoarthritis may avoid even relatively low-impact activities, such as walking.
rheumatoid arthritis osteoarthritis may be confused with rheumatoid arthritis, particularly when  osteoarthritis affects multiple joints in the body.
arthroscopic  debridement for knee osteoarthritis.
patients are barely aware of the sensation.
a rigorous 2002 trial, however, found that arthroscopic knee surgery was no more effective than sham surgery (in which surgeons only pretended to operate on the knee) for relief of osteoarthritic pain or stiffness.
back to top in the u.s., osteoarthritis affects about 12.1% of adults over 25 (21 million people).
patients afflicted with osteoarthritis of the hands can relieve pain with hot soaks and warm paraffin application.
the  best examples are yoga and tai chi, which focus on flexibility, balance, and  proper breathing.
hemicallotasis is a procedure for the knee that may be a less invasive alternative to osteotomy.
click the icon to see an image of  osteoarthritis vs. rheumatoid arthritis.
harris ed jr., barnett gd, budd rc, et al., eds.
patients afflicted with osteoarthritis of the hands  can relieve pain with hot soaks and warm paraffin application.
in rheumatoid  arthritis, blood tests often show a specific antibody, known as rheumatoid  factor, which is not present with osteoarthritis.
these drugs include warfarin and  low-molecular weight heparin.
the patient feels pain when using the joint.
reduce stress and improve feelings of well being, which helps patients  cope with the emotional burden of pain.
hamel mb, toth m, legedza a, et al.
there is an abnormal increase in bone density.
patients who take high doses of this drug for long periods are at risk for liver damage, particularly if they drink alcohol and do not eat regularly.
this is the only skin preparation that does  more than just mask pain or reduce it temporarily.
there have been several reported  cases of serious and even lethal side effects from herbal products.
this higher risk is due to increased  weight on the joints.
limitations after surgery.
if only a certain section (the medial compartment) of  the knee is damaged and deformed by osteoarthritis, the surgeon may choose to  perform an osteotomy: the surgeon opens the knee.
pain seems to increase in humid weather.
it has a number of essential parts, including: click  the icon to see an image of the synovial membrane and cartilage in the knee  joint.
patients who may not be good candidates are those with the following conditions: surgeons often prefer to delay prosthetic implantation in younger patients, because implants wear out and the patient will need at least one revision procedure later on.
this condition affects about 25% of the population and can accompany and even worsen osteoarthritis.
transcutaneous electric nerve stimulation (tens) uses low-level electrical pulses to suppress pain.
it uses a mechanical device that slowly moves the joint through an arc of motion for an extended period of time.
osteoarthritis affects joints differently depending on their location in the body.
osteoarthritis frequently strikes the weight-bearing joints in one or both hips.
a small amount of capsaicin must be applied to the area of inflammation about four times a day.
uncontained defects are more severe and may require a large bone graft or  specially constructed implants to restore bone.
although osteoarthritis can occasionally cause swollen, red joints, this appearance is much more typical of rheumatoid arthritis and other types of inflammatory arthritis.
about 60% of people with osteoarthritis have mineral  deposits in their cartilage.
although the average rate of osteoarthritis among older adults in the u.s.  is 60%, it can vary widely among geographical regions.
physical and anatomical factors some researchers suggest that a number of people have anatomical  abnormalities, such as mismatched surfaces on the joints, which could be  damaged over time.
narcotics narcotics, pain-relieving and sleep-inducing drugs that act on the central  nervous system, are the most powerful medications available for the management  of moderate-to-severe pain.
click the icon to see an  image of cholesterol.
the condition may  explain why some patients with osteoarthritis benefit from colchicine, a drug  used for gout and other crystal-induced joint diseases.
in the clinic: osteoarthritis.
studies report widely varying results, with some showing significant reductions in pain and others reporting no effect.
proximal interphalangeal (pip) joint.
after age 45, it develops more often in females.
using elastic supports on affected joints may benefit some people.
adjusting the work area or substituting tasks that produce less stress on joints helps reduce shock.
physical exam the affected joint in patients with osteoarthritis will generally be tender  to pressure right along the joint line.
patients who are  overweight are at higher than average risk for post-operative blood clots infection.
the combination of collagen mesh and water forms a strong and slippery pad in the joint.
continuous passive motion (cpm) is an effective regimen for knee replacement patients.
aside from the surgeon's skill and the patient's  underlying condition, the success rate depends on the kind and degree of  activity the joint receives following replacement surgery.
osteoarthritis in any of these locations can cause pain,  muscle spasms, and diminished mobility.
back to top bal bs, haltom d, aleto t, et al.
capsaicin capsaicin is a component of hot red peppers and may bring pain relief when  used as a skin cream (zostrix).
click the icon to see an illustrated series  detailing hip joint replacement surgery.
certain surgical procedures can help relieve pain if medications fail.
the ank gene regulates pyrophosphate, a chemical that inhibits the formation of mineral deposits, and may protect the cartilage in joints.
proper treatment of injuries, such as surgical repair of ligament tears in the knee with a strong rehabilitation approach, may help prevent the development of osteoarthritis.
[for more information, seein-depth report #53: weight control and diet.] because injuries can trigger the disease process, people whose work or leisure activities place them at risk for muscle and joint injuries may face a higher risk for osteoarthritis later on.
a variant (sometimes  called percutaneous electrical nerve stimulation, or pens) applies these pulses  through a small needle to acupuncture points.
autologous chondrocyte implantation, also called chondroplasty or the carticel approach, is used for knees damaged by injuries.
even with these procedures, however, joint replacement may still be needed later on.
the rate of osteoarthritis varies among ethnic groups.
strengthening exercises include isometric exercises (pushing or pulling against static resistance).
this drug class was initially thought to provide benefits equal to nsaids but cause less gastrointestinal distress.
brandt kd, mazzuca sa.
studies  report widely varying results, with some showing significant reductions in pain  and others reporting no effect.
people under age 40 may have the condition with no symptoms at  all.
collagen is the main protein found inall connective tissues of the body, including the muscles, ligaments, and tendons.
range-of-motion exercise.
something as simple as sleeping on a bad mattress or as serious as cancer can mirror symptoms of osteoarthritis.
synovial fluid is a lubricating liquid that supplies nutrients and oxygen to cartilage.
while several studies have shown  a benefit for this treatment, a number of studies on viscosupplementation have  shown little or no benefits, particularly in women, and more research is needed  to determine if they are useful.
researchers report a high correlation of osteoarthritis between parents and children, and between siblings.
side effects are the same as for each of these drugs.
some research  indicates that obesity may produce an inflammatory response, which is now a  major suspect in age-related diseases -- not only osteoarthritis but also heart  disease.
rheumatoid arthritis also does not usually show up in the fingertips where osteoarthritis is common.
in this procedure, arthroscopy is used to first remove cartilage in  eroded areas.
osteoarthritis is commonly identified by the following symptoms: hand.
the icon to see an image of a gastric ulcer.
it retains important knee ligaments, which preserve more movement than a total knee replacement.
in spite of  short-term success, longer experience with this method suggests it may not be  superior to cement prostheses.
joint movement may cause a crackling  sound.
patients with knee injuries may be up to five times more likely to have osteoarthritis in the injured knee than those without injuries, and patients with hip injuries may be more than three times more likely to develop arthritis in the injured hip.
tramadol tramadol (ultram) is a pain reliever that has been used as an alternative  to opioids.
this boxed warning emphasizes an increased risk for  cardiovascular events and gastrointestinal bleeding in people taking these  drugs.
back to top medications many medications are available for relieving the symptoms of  osteoarthritis.
carpometacarpal (cmc) joint.
it is a long-term disease of the joint cartilage and  bone, commonly thought to result from "wear and tear" on a joint.
contained defects can be repaired with small bone grafts, the use of  cement, or oversized cementless implants as required.
depending on the number of other medical problems present, older patients should also be assessed for hip replacement procedures.
brouwer rw, raaij van tm, bierma-zeinstra sm, et al.
the joint is usually stable until the disease reaches an advanced stage when the knee becomes enlarged and swollen.
click the icon to see an  image of the hip joint.