arrangements for food (breakfast, lunch and dinner) can be made by printing  out a sick tray request form found at http://diningservices.tamu.edu/sicktrays.stm and having a friend take the  completed form, along with the sick student's id, to a dining center for food  pick up.
sick students are advised to return home for the recommended  self-isolation period.
fever-reducing medications are medicines that contain acetaminophen (such  as tylenol) or ibuprofen (such as motrin).
students will not be penalized if they act responsibly.
what steps should i take if my roommate is sick with the flu?
who should receive a flu vaccination?
sick people should stay at home or in their residence except to go to the  health care provider's office, and they should avoid contact with others.
students should try to limit contact  with other people.
these  include children younger than 5 years of age, pregnant women, people of any age  with chronic health conditions (such as asthma, diabetes or heart disease) and  people 65 years of age and older.
non-corps students should notify  their resident advisor or hall director and corps students should notify the  commandant's office if they believe that they are experiencing flu-like  symptoms.
there will be on-going communication to instruct students, faculty and  staff to promptly seek medical attention if they have a medical condition that  places them at higher risk of flu-related complications, are concerned about  their illness or develop severe symptoms.
under current flu conditions faculty and staff with flu-like symptoms should stay home for at least 24 hoursafter they no longer have a fever (100 degrees fahrenheit or 38 degrees celsius) or signs of a fever (have chills, feel very warm, have a flushed appearance, or are sweating).
how long should students with the flu stay at home or in their residence?
international students should follow all flu recommendations their  institutions make for students.
a person who is still sick after 7 days should  stay home until 24 hours after the symptoms have gone away.
however, efforts to fully combat the spread of the illness can't be  successful without the help of all students, faculty and staff.
sick people should stay at home or in their residence except to go to the health care provider's office, and they should avoid contact with others.
if classes are suspended during severe flu  conditions, international students and others who do not have easy access to  alternative housing should stay on campus.
in highly trafficked areas, custodians are using sanitizing wipes  to frequently clean water fountains, door knobs and handles, elevator buttons,  handrails, glass, trim on doors and light switches.
these groups include: pregnant women people who live with and care for children younger than 6 months of age healthcare and emergency medical services personnel people between the ages of 6 months and 24 years (this includes most  students attending institutions of higher education) people ages 25-64 years of age who have chronic health conditions (such as  asthma, heart disease or diabetes) or compromised immune systems.
we continue to  work closely with the local, state and federal health officials to monitor flu  conditions and make decisions about the best steps to take concerning our  institution.
practice respiratory etiquette.
during this flu season, we likely will not be able to require a medical professional to verify a flu-like illness for an excused medical absence.
international travel what should i do if i'm planning to travel abroad?
people at higher risk for 2009 h1n1 flu complications  include pregnant women and people with chronic medical conditions (such as  asthma, heart disease or diabetes).
if students are ill, arrangements for food (breakfast, lunch and dinner)  can be made by printing out a sick tray request form found at http://diningservices.tamu.edu/sicktrays.stm and having a friend take the  completed form, along with the sick student's id, to a dining center for food  pick-up.
also, if students are going to miss class due to illness, it is important  to communicate directly with their instructor through his/her preferred means  of communication.
what is texas a&m's policy regarding sick leave for students?
anyone can get the flu (even healthy people) and anyone can have serious problems from the flu.
keeping people with a fever at home may reduce the number of people who get  infected with the flu virus.
anyone planning international travel should check with the u.s.  department of state (http://www.state.gov/ ) for the most current travel  alerts, and be familiar with the university'sinternational travel guidelines  and resources.
in addition, this  longer period should be used in healthcare settings and may be considered  anywhere a high number of people at higher risk for complications from flu may  be exposed, such as childcare facilities.
additionally, students should avoid driving long distances while ill.
however, we  need the entire aggie family to help us accomplish this by taking a few  precautions - get a seasonal flu shot, practice good hand-washing procedures,  avoid touching your eyes, nose and mouth, and cover your cough.
a person who is still sick after 7 days  should stay home until 24 hours after the symptoms have gone away.
pregnant women should know that they are part of the first priority group to receive the 2009 h1n1 flu vaccine.
arrangements for food (breakfast, lunch and dinner) can be made by printing out a sick tray request form found at http://diningservices.tamu.edu/sicktrays.stm and having a friend take the completed form, along with the sick student's id, to a dining center for food pick up.
campus preparations are firmly in place for what health officials  anticipate will be an active season worldwide for both the seasonal flu and the  h1n1 virus.
under current flu conditions, students with flu-like symptoms should stay  home for at least 24 hoursafter they no longer have a fever (100  degrees fahrenheit or 38 degrees celsius) or signs of a fever (have chills,  feel very warm, have a flushed appearance, or are sweating).
if  they don't have a tissue, they should cough or sneeze into their elbow or  shoulder, not their hands.
residence  hall staff will be wiping down common areas frequently with disinfectants.
severe symptoms include increased  fever, shortness of breath, chest pain or pressure, fast breathing, bluish skin  color, vomiting, dizziness or confusion.
will texas a&m provide vaccinations for seasonal and 2009 h1n1 flu?
how do i recognize a fever or signs of a fever?
and, like all people at higher risk, should speak with their health care provider as soon as possible if they develop flu-like symptoms.
faculty members are encouraged to err on the side of caution and will use their judgment regarding proper documentation for absenteeism.
symptoms what are the symptoms of seasonal flu and the 2009 h1n1 flu?
the 2009 h1n1 flu vaccine became available in the fall of 2009.
most importantly, if students are experiencing flu-like symptoms, please stay home - except if you need to seek medical care - and do not go to class , student organization meetings, or other events until your fever is gone for a 24-hour period without fever- reducing medication.
students who have the flu are strongly encouraged to be proactive in  communicating with their instructors using the instructor's prescribed method  of communication.
if you are sick - faculty & staff what should faculty and staff do if they get the flu? most importantly, if you are sick, please stay home - except to seek  medical care - and do not go to work or class until you have been without a  fever for 24 hours without taking a fever-reducing medication.
if flu conditions become more severe, those who are sick should stay at their home, dormitory or residence hall for at least 7 days, even if symptoms go away sooner.
this form will be considered as sufficient documentation for  class absences related to influenza-like illness.
contact the dial-a-nurse 24-hour nurse advice line at 979-458-8379 for advice about whether to seek medical evaluation and/or how to care for yourself.
what steps should texas a&m students, faculty and staff take to stay  healthy and keep from spreading the flu?
also, restrooms and  classrooms are being policed and cleaned more frequently than usual.
students, faculty and staff can get sick with flu, and colleges and  universities may act as a "point of spread.
sick people should stay at home or in  their residence, except to go to the health care provider's office, and they  should avoid contact with others.
antiviral medications, if started within the first 48 hours of onset of symptoms, may reduce the length of illness.
under current flu conditions, students with flu-like symptoms should stay home for at least 24 hoursafter they no longer have a fever (100 degrees fahrenheit or 38 degrees celsius) or signs of a fever (have chills, feel very warm, have a flushed appearance, or are sweating).
also, faculty members have been urged to reiterate how they  want their students to contact them - telephone, email, etc. - if they must  miss a class.
additionally, students  should avoid driving long distances while ill.
faculty members are encouraged to err on the side  of caution and will use their judgment regarding proper documentation for  absenteeism.
they should stay away from other people until at  least 24 hoursafter they no longer have a fever (100 degrees  fahrenheit or 38 degrees celsius) or signs of a fever (have chills, feel very  warm, have a flushed appearance or are sweating).
these include children younger than 5 years of age, pregnant women, people of any age with chronic health conditions (such as asthma, diabetes or heart disease) and people 65 years of age and older.
early treatment with antiviral medicines often can  prevent hospitalizations and deaths.
anyone who has the symptoms of flu-like illness  should stay home and not go to work.
the sick tray request form authorizes a friend to use the sick student's id to pick up food for them.
for more information about priority groups  for vaccination, visitwww.cdc.gov/h1n1flu/vaccination/acip.htm.
should my child who is a student at texas a&m get antiviral medicine  if they get sick?
the form and more information about how to use the form can be found athttp://flu.tamu.edu.
alcohol-based hand cleaners  are also effective.
sick students with private rooms are asked to remain in their own rooms  and receive care and meals from one person, if possible.
certain groups at higher risk for complications from this flu are advised to  get the 2009 h1n1 flu vaccine as soon as possible.
people at higher risk for complications which students, faculty and staff are at higher risk for complications  from flu?
they are also at risk of getting  seasonal influenza.
because high  body temperatures are linked with higher amounts of virus, people with a fever  may be more contagious.
this form will be considered as sufficient documentation for class absences related to influenza-like illness.
students, faculty and  staff can easily spread flu to others on campus as well as in the bryan-college  station community.
how do i know if someone has 2009 h1n1 flu or seasonal flu?
students, faculty and staff are strongly encouraged to consider adopting a  similar practice in their organizations to help prevent the spread of flu.
keeping people with a fever at home may  reduce the number of people who get infected with the flu virus.
the sick person may decide  to stop taking fever-reducing medicines as he or she begins to feel better.
stay home or in their place of residence for  at least 24 hoursafter they no long have a fever.
keeping people with a fever at home may reduce the number of people who get infected with the flu virus.
during current flu conditions, people who are sick should stay home and away from other people until at least 24 hoursafter they no longer have a fever or signs of a fever.
pregnant women should follow the same guidance as the general public  related to staying home when sick, hand hygiene, respiratory etiquette and  routine cleaning.
students should not use the university bus system or  other forms of public transportation if they are ill.
for example, travel by private car or taxi would be preferable over  use of public transportation.
a fever is a temperature that is equal to or greater than 100 degrees  fahrenheit or 38 degrees celsius when taken with a thermometer.
this person should  continue to monitor his or her temperature until it has been normal for 24  hours.
therefore,  university officials are taking steps to reduce the spread of flu.
please call (979)  458-8250 to schedule an appointment.
anyone can get the flu (even healthy people) and anyone can have serious  problems from the flu.
residence life staff or the commandant's office will identify appropriate  housing accommodations for ill students in the event that self-isolation is not  possible and/or a student cannot return home.
custodial services has implemented supplemental cleaning  protocols to help ensure that you are as well protected as possible during the  flu season.
most importantly, if students are experiencing flu-like symptoms, please  stay home - except if you need to seek medical care - and do not go to class ,  student organization meetings, or other events until your fever is gone for a  24-hour period without fever- reducing medication.
during the period of self-isolation, sick people should limit contact with others and try to maintain a distance of at least 6 feet from people.
also, if students are going to miss class due to illness, it is important to communicate directly with their instructor through his/her preferred means of communication.
this should be determined  without the use of fever-reducing medications (any medicine that contains  ibuprofen or acetaminophen).
if close contact cannot be avoided, your sick roommate should wear a  surgical mask, if tolerable, when he or she is around you and other people.
non-corps students should notify their resident advisor or hall director and corps students should notify the commandant's office if they believe that they are experiencing flu-like symptoms.
as stated in the regulation and in an effort to ease the  burden on health care providers, if an employee is ill for more than three days  with the flu, supervisors and/or managers are permitted to allow the employee  to provide a written statement of the facts concerning the illness without  requiring a doctor's note.
also students, faculty and staff  who are at higher risk for flu complications from 2009 h1n1 flu should consider  getting the h1n1 vaccine.
students should not use the university bus system or other forms of public transportation if they are ill.
we will keep you updated with new information as it becomes  available to us.
student health services has posted a form on its website, titled  "explanatory statement for absence from class for influenza-like  illness."
here are four important ways faculty, students and staff can stay healthy  and keep from getting sick with flu or spreading the flu.
early treatment with antiviral flu medicines is recommended for pregnant women who have the flu; these medicines are most effective when started within the first 48 hours of feeling sick.
if flu conditions become more severe, the sick person should stay home or  in their residence for 7 days.
© 2012 all rights reserved
how long should faculty and staff member with the flu stay at home or in  their residence?
by practicing these steps, they can keep from  getting sick from flu and help protect others from getting the flu.
they should: practice good hand hygiene.
the sick person may decide to stop taking fever-reducing medicines as he or she begins to feel better.
if you are sick - students what should students living on campus do if they get the flu?
under current flu conditions faculty and staff with flu-like symptoms  should stay home for at least 24 hoursafter they no longer have a  fever (100 degrees fahrenheit or 38 degrees celsius) or signs of a fever (have  chills, feel very warm, have a flushed appearance, or are sweating).
contact the dial-a-nurse 24-hour nurse advice line at 979-458-8379 for  advice about whether to seek medical evaluation and/or how to care for  yourself.
the sick tray request form authorizes a friend to use the sick  student's id to pick up food for them.
if you come to  work sick, you may be required to take leave if your supervisor determines that  continued work could potentially create a significant risk to co-workers and  other texas a&m employees.
what should international students do if classes are suspended at a u.s.  institution of higher education they are attending?
residence life staff or the commandant's office will identify appropriate housing accommodations for ill students in the event that self-isolation is not possible and/or a student cannot return home.
this should be determined without the use of  fever-reducing medications (any medicine that contains ibuprofen or  acetaminophen).
some groups are at higher risk for complications from the flu.
strongly encouraging sick students, faculty and staff to stay home and  away from other people until at least 24 hoursafter they no longer  have a fever (100 degrees fahrenheit or 38 degrees celsius) or signs of a fever  (have chills, feel very warm, have flushed appearance or are sweating).
students, faculty and staff should be encouraged to talk  with their health care provider to determine if they are at higher risk for flu  complications, especially if they have been in close contact with others who  are sick with flu or flu-like illness.
because high body temperatures are linked with  higher amounts of virus, people with a fever may be more contagious.
if close contact cannot be avoided, sick people should wear a surgical  mask when they are around other people, if they can tolerate it.
pregnant women are at higher risk of complications from flu
students, faculty and staff should take personal responsibility to help slow  the spread of the flu virus.
this  should be determined without the use of fever-reducing medications (any  medicine that contains ibuprofen or acetaminophen).
during current flu conditions, people who are sick should stay home and  away from other people until at least 24 hoursafter they no longer  have a fever or signs of a fever.
in addition, symptoms of flu can include runny nose, body aches,  headache, tiredness, diarrhea or vomiting.
a person who is still sick after 7 days should stay home until 24 hours after the symptoms have gone away.
is texas a&m adequately prepared to handle the 2009-2010 flu season?
in addition, this longer period should be used in healthcare settings and may be considered anywhere a high number of people at higher risk for complications from flu may be exposed, such as childcare facilities.
you should limit your contact with your sick roommate and try to maintain  a distance of 6 feet from him or her.
antiviral  medicines are not given to all people during flu season because most people get  better on their own, over-use can promote antiviral-resistant viruses and  administration of antiviral medicines can cause adverse reactions in some  people.
the h1n1 vaccination also will be offered  to students when it becomes available.
this person should continue to monitor his or her temperature until it has been normal for 24 hours.
talk to their health care providers about whether they should be  vaccinated.
what fever-reducing medications can faculty and staff take when sick?
stay home if they are sick.
questions and answers why should i be concerned about the flu?
pregnant women should know that they are part of the first priority group  to receive the 2009 h1n1 flu vaccine.
because high body temperatures are linked with higher amounts of virus, people with a fever may be more contagious.
during the period of self-isolation, sick people should limit  contact with others and try to maintain a distance of at least 6 feet from  people.
students are strongly encouraged to get the seasonal flu shot for  fall 2009, available from student health services for $18.00.
in addition,  this longer period should be used in healthcare settings and may be considered  anywhere a high number of people at higher risk for complications from flu may  be exposed, such as childcare facilities.
if flu conditions become more severe, the sick person should stay home or in their residence for 7 days.
these medicines can be given to  people who are sick with flu to help bring their fever down and relieve their  pain.
look for these  possible signs of fever: if he or she feels very warm, has a flushed  appearance, or is sweating or shivering.
if students get sick, and live on campus or in the bryan-college station  area, they are advised to return to their local residence for the recommended  self-isolation period.
students with flu-like illness should remain at home - except if they need to seek medical care - and should not go to class, student organization meetings, or other events until at least 24 hoursafter they no longer have a fever (100 degrees fahrenheit or 38 degrees celsius) or signs of a fever (have chills, feel very warm, have a flushed appearance, or are sweating).
students, faculty and staff should be encouraged to talk with their health care provider to determine if they are at higher risk for flu complications, especially if they have been in close contact with others who are sick with flu or flu-like illness.
what is texas a&m's policy regarding sick leave for employees?
antiviral medications, if started within the first 48 hours of onset  of symptoms, may reduce the length of illness.
symptoms of flu include fever or chills and cough or sore
the main way flu spreads is from person to  person in droplets produced by coughs and sneezes, so it's important that  people cover their mouth and nose with a tissue when they cough or sneeze.
the aggie honor code and the student rules (rule 7) apply to students who, because of illness, may need to makeup absences, exams or assignments.
if flu conditions become more severe, the sick person should stay home or in this or her residence for 7 days.
also, faculty members have been urged to reiterate how they want their students to contact them - telephone, email, etc. - if they must miss a class.
prevention what steps are texas a&m officials taking to keep sick students,  faculty and staff from spreading flu?
contamination and cleaning with the growing concern about the spread  of the virus, efforts have intensified campus-wide to help ensure the safety of  the aggie family.
what fever-reducing medications can students, faculty and staff take when  sick?
aspirin (acetylsalicylic acid) should not be given to anyone younger than  18 years of age who have flu; this can cause a rare but serious illness called  reye's syndrome.
they  should return home in a way that limits contact with others as much as  possible.
children 6 months through 18 years of age, people of any age with chronic  medical conditions (such as asthma, heart disease, or diabetes) and everyone  age 50 and older should be vaccinated against seasonal flu as early as  possible.
if students get sick, and live on campus or in the bryan-college station area, they are advised to return to their local residence for the recommended self-isolation period.
people who are still sick after 7 days should continue to stay home until at least 24 hours after symptoms have gone away.
aspirin (acetylsalicylic acid) should not be given to anyone younger than  18 years of age who has flu; this can cause a rare but serious illness called  reye's syndrome.
it is important that texas a&m system regulations regarding sick leave (pdf) be followed.
early treatment  with antiviral flu medicines is recommended for pregnant women who have the  flu; these medicines are most effective when started within the first 48 hours  of feeling sick.
antiviral medications are appropriate for some, but not all, persons with flu-like symptoms.
vaccines will be available this year to protect against seasonal flu.
institutions should plan to continue education through  distance-based learning methods for students who remain on campus as well as  those who leave to go home.
parents should make sure their child knows if he or she is at higher risk  for flu complications.
during this flu season, we likely will  not be able to require a medical professional to verify a flu-like illness for  an excused medical absence.
the form and more information  about how to use the form can be found athttp://flu.tamu.edu.
if possible, residential students with flu-like illness whose families  live near the bryan-college station area should go home to self-isolate.
as has been  widely reported, flu can be spread easily from person to person.
sick people should stay at home or in their residence, except to go to the health care provider's office, and they should avoid contact with others.
for now, we are doing everything we can to keep texas a&m  operating as usual.
if flu conditions become more severe, those  who are sick should stay at their home, dormitory or residence hall for at  least 7 days, even if symptoms go away sooner.
what actions should pregnant students, faculty or staff take to protect  themselves from the flu?
people at higher risk for flu complications, including  students, faculty and staff with certain chronic medical conditions (such as  asthma, heart disease or diabetes), who become sick with flu-like illness  should call their health care provider as soon as possible to determine if they  need antiviral treatment.
pregnant women are at higher risk of complications from flu  and, like all people at higher risk, should speak with their health care  provider as soon as possible if they develop flu-like symptoms.
they should wash their hands often with soap  and water, especially after coughing or sneezing.
this should be  determined without the use of fever-reducing medications (any medicine that  contains ibuprofen or acetaminophen).
the aggie honor code and the  student rules (rule 7) apply to students who, because of illness, may need to  makeup absences, exams or assignments.
however, based on the specific situation,  supervisors and/or managers may require documentation by the physician for any  illness of more than three days.
people who are still sick after  7 days should continue to stay home until at least 24 hours after symptoms have  gone away.
student health services has posted a form on its website, titled "explanatory statement for absence from class for influenza-like illness."
officials are establishing a method for maintaining contact with students  who are sick.
antiviral medications are  appropriate for some, but not all, persons with flu-like symptoms.
self-isolation is when sick people stay home and away from other people until they no longer have a fever (100 degrees fahrenheit or 38 degrees celsius) or signs of a fever (have chills, feel very warm, have flushed appearance, or are sweating).
parents should encourage sick students who  are at higher risk for flu complications to seek early treatment.
students who have the flu are strongly encouraged to be proactive in communicating with their instructors using the instructor's prescribed method of communication.
if close contact cannot be avoided, sick people should wear a surgical mask when they are around other people, if they can tolerate it.
self-isolation is when sick people stay home and away from other people  until they no longer have a fever (100 degrees fahrenheit or 38 degrees  celsius) or signs of a fever (have chills, feel very warm, have flushed  appearance, or are sweating).
students, faculty and staff who want protection from the flu are  encouraged to get vaccinated for seasonal flu.
residence life or the commandant's staff will identify  appropriate housing accommodations for ill students in the event that  self-isolation is not possible and/or a student cannot return home.
seasonal flu vaccine is also recommended for pregnant women and can be given at any time during pregnancy.
students with flu-like illness should remain at home - except if they need  to seek medical care - and should not go to class, student organization  meetings, or other events until at least 24 hoursafter they no longer  have a fever (100 degrees fahrenheit or 38 degrees celsius) or signs of a fever  (have chills, feel very warm, have a flushed appearance, or are sweating).
seasonal flu vaccine is also recommended  for pregnant women and can be given at any time during pregnancy.
you should frequently clean commonly-touched surfaces.
what fever-reducing medications can students take when sick?
parent of a sick student as a parent of a student who attends texas a&m, should i bring them  home?
what is self-isolation?
non-corps  students should contact their resident advisor or hall director and corps  students should contact the commandant's staff if they believe that they are  experiencing flu-like symptoms.
the sick person may decide to stop taking  fever-reducing medicines as he or she begins to feel better.
public health officials and medical authorities will not be  recommending laboratory tests.
if flu conditions become more severe, the sick person should stay home or  in this or her residence for 7 days.
this person should continue to monitor his or her temperature until it has been  normal for 24 hours.
this should be determined without the use of fever-reducing medications (any medicine that contains ibuprofen or acetaminophen).
pregnant women should follow the same guidance as the general public related to staying home when sick, hand hygiene, respiratory etiquette and routine cleaning.
we ask that you  notify your supervisor immediately if you become ill with flu-like symptoms and  ensure that your leave records are as up-to-date as possible.
it will be very hard to tell if someone who is sick has 2009 h1n1 flu or  seasonal flu.
to date, the highest number of cases of 2009 h1n1 flu have  been confirmed among people 5-24 years old.