nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (nsaids): these are better known in their abbreviated form, as nsaids, and these are the second class of otc meds.
both acetaminophen and nsaids are  available in a variety of forms and dosages to satisfy these important criteria.
in: (lifewire) - it's hard to beat the convenience of over-the-counter (otc) medications, especially when a family member needs quick relief from a fever.
labels also state if the product is safe for children over 2.
"no aspirin for children."
children with colds or viruses, including chicken pox, who are given aspirin can experience the rapid onset of reye's, whose symptoms include: if you suspect your child is developing reye's syndrome, which can occur even without aspirin ingestion, then seek emergency medical care immediately.
"national reye's syndrome foundation.
but don't let the wide array of packaging fool you: only two classes of otc medications are designed specifically to lower fever, which is defined as 100.4 f or higher in infants.
fever reducers need to target each person's age and weight, among other factors, to be as effective and safe as possible.
this chemical is sometimes listed in different forms, including acetylsalicylate, acetylsalicylic acid and salicylic acid.)
the oklahoma poison control center.
sources: "child warning labels added to over-the-counter cough and cold  medicine.
for instance, a cold sufferer may take a multi-symptom cold medicine containing acetaminophen along with headache medicine containing the same active ingredient, essentially receiving a double dose, without even realizing it.
this class of medicine includes not only fever reducers, but also pain relievers, cough suppressants and cold remedies.
however, single-ingredient otc fever reducers such as acetaminophen and ibuprofen are approved for infants, though parents are advised to consult a doctor regarding the correct dosage for those under 2.
it is found in brands such as tylenol and anacin-3 (acetaminophen).
"the best way to take your over-the-counter pain reliever?
don't use household spoons to administer medication, since they are rarely equivalent to the teaspoon or tablespoon dose advised on the package.
however,  single-ingredient otc fever reducers such as acetaminophen and ibuprofen are  approved for infants, though parents are advised to consult a doctor regarding  the correct dosage for those under 2.
fever reducers also can be taken rectally as suppositories, which is useful if the patient is vomiting and cannot ingest anything by mouth.
related articles tylenol vs. motrin - what's better for fever?
unintentional overdoses of  fever reducers are quite common because their active ingredients are duplicated  in other common otc medications.
the risk of  liver damage increases in those who drink three or more alcoholic beverages  each day while taking ongoing doses of acetaminophen, and emergency rooms see  many who took much more than the recommended dose and ended up with a  life-threatening case of acetaminophen poisoning.
"the best way to take your over-the-counter pain  reliever?
u.s. food and drug administration.
lethargy aggressive or irrational behavior if you suspect your child is developing reye's syndrome, which can occur  even without aspirin ingestion, then seek emergency medical care immediately.
it is also an active ingredient in more than 600 drugs, both prescription and otc.
tablets and caplets, usually aimed at adults, come in various shapes and sizes, as well as dose levels.
fever reducers also can be taken rectally as  suppositories, which is useful if the patient is vomiting and cannot ingest  anything by mouth.
all otc medication labels list the active ingredient(s), what symptoms the product helps, who it's for, how much to take and how often.
chkd.org. 23 jan. 2004.
excess levels of acetaminophen or nsaids are not harmless.
a part of the new york times company.
both acetaminophen and nsaids are available in a variety of forms and dosages to satisfy these important criteria.
scanning store shelves when looking for fever reducers can be dizzying because so many brands and dosages are available.
discuss in our forum from maureen salamon, updated february 24, 2009 about.com health's disease and condition content is reviewed by the medical review boardfiled
tablets and caplets, usually aimed at adults, come in various shapes and  sizes, as well as dose levels.
sources: "child warning labels added to over-the-counter cough and cold medicine.
check with your doctor if you have any questions about which otc fever
maureen salamon is a  new jersey-based freelance writer whose work has appeared in a variety of  online and print publications.
u.s. food and drug  administration.
for instance, a cold sufferer may take a  multi-symptom cold medicine containing acetaminophen along with headache  medicine containing the same active ingredient, essentially receiving a double  dose, without even realizing it.
products containing acetaminophen: this is the first class of otc medication designed to lower a fever.
"fda launches consumer campaign on safe use of otc pain products."
liquid medicines, often designed for children, are typically packaged with  a small cup, dropper or cylindrical spoon to increase dosage accuracy.
labels also  state if the product is safe for children over 2.
but just because otc drugs don't require a doctor's approval doesn't mean choosing them can be done carelessly.
meds with this active ingredient within this class include the brand names of advil and motrin (ibuprofen), aleve (naproxen sodium) or common aspirin.
don't  use household spoons to administer medication, since they are rarely equivalent  to the teaspoon or tablespoon dose advised on the package.
national reye's syndrome foundation.
"reyessyndrome.org. 2008.
unintentional overdoses of fever reducers are quite common because their active ingredients are duplicated in other common otc medications.
be sure to read the label of any medicine you or a family member is about  to take.
american society of anesthesiologists.
lifewire, a part of the new york times company,  provides original and syndicated online lifestyle content.
the age of the person taking an otc fever reducer is important in choosing  the appropriate type.
tylenol (acetaminophen) dosage calculator< use of fever reducer - vaccines your child has a cold - what to do for your child with a cold cold and flu medications - single symptom medications to treat cold and flu explore drugs  must reads
children's hospital of the king's daughters.
what else to watch for when using these meds?
the us food and drug administration recommends that otc cough and cold medicines not be used for those less than 2 years old and are not advised for those under 4.
"over-the-counter drugs.
nsaids can cause stomach  bleeding or kidney problems, especially in senior citizens and those on certain  medications.
nsaids can cause stomach bleeding or kidney problems, especially in senior citizens and those on certain medications.
the age of the person taking an otc fever reducer is important in choosing the appropriate type.
the risk of liver damage increases in those who drink three or more alcoholic beverages each day while taking ongoing doses of acetaminophen, and emergency rooms see many who took much more than the recommended dose and ended up with a life-threatening case of acetaminophen poisoning.
we comply with the honcode standard
(normal body temperatures vary among individuals and with the time of day.)
the oklahoma poison  control center.
"fda launches consumer campaign on safe use of otc pain products." chkd.org. 23 jan. 2004.
the us food and drug  administration recommends that otc cough and cold medicines not be used for  those less than 2 years old and are not advised for those under 4.
additionally, these medications can become toxic, even at correct dosages, among young children suffering from dehydration due to fever, vomiting and/or diarrhea.
liquid medicines, often designed for children, are typically packaged with a small cup, dropper or cylindrical spoon to increase dosage accuracy.
both drug classes have venerable safety records for fever reduction, but aspirin should never be used for this purpose in children under 19 years of age, who are more vulnerable to a deadly disease known as reye's syndrome.
be sure to read the label of any medicine you or a family member is about to take.
all otc medication labels list the active ingredient(s), what symptoms  the product helps, who it's for, how much to take and how often.
additionally, these medications can become toxic, even at correct dosages,  among young children suffering from dehydration due to fever, vomiting and/or  diarrhea.
"ucsfchildcarehealth.org. 2009.
"ucsfchildcarehealth.org.
california childcare health program.
reducers are right for you.
these are also used primarily for fever and pain relief.
the cause and cure of reye's syndrome are still unknown, but its development in children is widely linked to the use of aspirin, which contains the chemical salicylate.
check with your doctor if you have any questions about which otc fever reducers are right for you.