it is not known whether ibuprofen is harmful to an unborn baby.
this includes vitamins, minerals, herbal products, and drugs prescribed by other doctors.
the absence of a warning for a given drug or drug combination in no way should be construed to indicate that the drug or drug combination is safe, effective or appropriate for any given patient.
do not take extra medicine to make up the missed dose.
before taking ibuprofen, tell your doctor if you are allergic to any drugs, or if you have: if you have any of these conditions, you may need a dose adjustment or special tests to safely take ibuprofen.
an overdose of ibuprofen can cause damage to your stomach or intestines.
back to treatment report ibuprofen is in a group of drugs called nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (nsaids).
ibuprofen can make aspirin less effective in protecting your heart and  blood vessels.
older adults may have an even  greater risk of these serious gastrointestinal side effects.
use only the smallest amount of ibuprofen needed to get relief from your pain, swelling, or fever.
ibuprofen may also be used for other purposes not listed in this medication guide.
do not give this medicine to a child without the advice of a doctor.
ibuprofen can make your skin more sensitive to sunlight and sunburn may result.
if you are taking the medication regularly, take the missed dose as soon as you remember.
do not start using a new medication without telling your doctor.
information on patientslikeme.com does not constitute medical advice.
the maximum amount of ibuprofen for adults is 800 milligrams per dose or 3200 mg per day (4 maximum doses).
do not use any other over-the-counter cold, allergy, or pain medication  without first asking your doctor or pharmacist.
multum's drug information is an informational resource designed to assist licensed healthcare practitioners in caring for their patients and/or to serve consumers viewing this service as a supplement to, and not a substitute for, the expertise, skill, knowledge and judgment of healthcare practitioners.
tell your doctor about all the prescription and over-the-counter medications you use.
these conditions can be fatal and gastrointestinal effects can occur without warning at any time while you are taking ibuprofen.
avoid exposure to sunlight or artificial uv rays (sunlamps or tanning beds).
if you are taking the medication regularly, take the missed dose as  soon as you remember.
multum's drug information does not endorse drugs, diagnose patients or recommend therapy.
since ibuprofen is sometimes taken as needed, you may not be on a dosing schedule.
do not take extra  medicine to make up the missed dose.
back to top tell your doctor if you are taking an antidepressant such as citalopram (celexa), duloxetine (cymbalta), escitalopram (lexapro), fluoxetine (prozac, sarafem, symbyax), fluvoxamine (luvox), paroxetine (paxil), sertraline (zoloft), or venlafaxine (effexor).
these conditions can be fatal and gastrointestinal effects can occur without warning at any time while you are taking an nsaid.
use a sunscreen (minimum spf 15) and wear protective clothing if you  must be out in the sun.
revision date 8/23/04 © 2005-2012 patientslikeme.
taking an nsaid can increase your risk of life-threatening heart or circulation problems, including heart attack or stroke.
these  conditions can be fatal and gastrointestinal effects can occur without warning  at any time while you are taking an nsaid.
taking any of these drugs with ibuprofen may cause you to bruise or bleed easily.
avoid taking ibuprofen if you are taking aspirin to prevent stroke or heart attack.
you may report side effects to fda at 1-800-fda-1088.
do not use this medication without telling your doctor if you are breast-feeding a baby.
read the label of any  other medicine you are using to see if it contains aspirin, ibuprofen,  ketoprofen, or naproxen.
before taking ibuprofen, tell your doctor if you are taking any of the following drugs: this list is not complete and there may be other drugs that can interact with ibuprofen.
every effort has been made to ensure that the information provided by cerner multum, inc. ('multum') is accurate, up-to-date, and complete, but no guarantee is made to that effect.
multum does not assume any responsibility for any aspect of healthcare administered with the aid of information multum provides.
do not use this medication without telling your doctor if  you are breast-feeding a baby.
do not take ibuprofen during pregnancy unless your doctor has told you to.
this includes black, bloody, or tarry stools, or coughing up blood or vomit that looks like coffee grounds.
do not take ibuprofen during pregnancy unless your  doctor has told you to.
do not use this medicine just before or after  having heart bypass surgery (also called coronary artery bypass graft, or cabg).
however, taking ibuprofen during the last 3 months of pregnancy may result in birth defects.
overdose symptoms may include nausea, vomiting, stomach pain,  drowsiness, black or bloody stools, coughing up blood, shallow breathing,  fainting, or coma.
overdose symptoms may include nausea, vomiting, stomach pain, drowsiness, black or bloody stools, coughing up blood, shallow breathing, fainting, or coma.
seek emergency medical help if you have symptoms of heart or circulation problems, such as chest pain, weakness, shortness of breath, slurred speech, or problems with vision or balance.
ibuprofen works by reducing hormones that cause inflammation and pain in the body.
use a sunscreen (minimum spf 15) and wear protective clothing if you must be out in the sun.
information found on patientslikeme is based on reports from patientslikeme members.
alcohol can increase your risk of stomach bleeding caused by ibuprofen.
back to top get emergency medical help if you have any of these signs of an allergic reaction: hives; difficulty breathing; swelling of your face, lips, tongue, or throat.
however, taking ibuprofen during the last 3 months of pregnancy  may result in birth defects.
this risk will increase the longer you use an nsaid.
this risk will increase the longer you use ibuprofen.
this medicine can also increase your risk of serious effects on the stomach or intestines, including bleeding or perforation (forming of a hole).
call your doctor for medical advice about side effects.
if you must use both medications, take the ibuprofen at least 8 hours before or 30 minutes after you take the aspirin (non-enteric coated form).
older adults may have an even greater risk of these serious gastrointestinal side effects.
do not use this medication if you are allergic to ibuprofen, aspirin or  other nsaids.
ibuprofen can make your skin more sensitive to sunlight and sunburn may  result.
ibuprofen is used to reduce fever and treat pain or inflammation caused by many conditions such as headache, toothache, back pain, arthritis, menstrual cramps, or minor injury.
multum information has been compiled for use by healthcare practitioners and consumers in the united states and therefore multum does not warrant that uses outside of the united states are appropriate, unless specifically indicated otherwise.
ibuprofen can make aspirin less effective in protecting your heart and blood vessels.
if you must use both medications, take the ibuprofen at least 8  hours before or 30 minutes after you take the aspirin (non-enteric coated form).
avoid taking ibuprofen if you are taking aspirin to prevent stroke or heart  attack.
call your doctor at once if you have symptoms of bleeding in your stomach or intestines.
since ibuprofen is sometimes taken as needed, you may not be on a dosing  schedule.
stop taking ibuprofen and seek medical attention or call your doctor at  once if you have any of these serious side effects: chest pain, weakness, shortness of breath, slurred speech, problems with  vision or balance; black, bloody, or tarry stools; coughing up blood or vomit that looks like coffee grounds; swelling or rapid weight gain; urinating less than usual or not at all; nausea, stomach pain, low fever, loss of appetite, dark urine,  clay-colored stools, jaundice (yellowing of the skin or eyes); fever, sore throat, and headache with a severe blistering, peeling, and  red skin rash; bruising, severe tingling, numbness, pain, muscle weakness; or fever, headache, neck stiffness, chills, increased sensitivity to light,  purple spots on the skin, and/or seizure (convulsions).
do not drink alcohol while taking ibuprofen.
many medicines available over the counter contain aspirin or other medicines similar to ibuprofen (such as ketoprofen or naproxen).
back to top side effects get emergency medical help if you have any of these signs of an allergic  reaction: hives; difficulty breathing; swelling of your face, lips, tongue, or  throat.
many medicines available over  the counter contain aspirin or other medicines similar to ibuprofen (such as  ketoprofen or naproxen).
do not use this medication if you are allergic to ibuprofen, aspirin or other nsaids.
if you have any of these conditions, you may need a dose adjustment or  special tests to safely take ibuprofen.
back to top instructions seek emergency medical attention if you think you have used too much of  this medicine.
the information contained herein is not intended to cover all possible uses, directions, precautions, warnings, drug interactions, allergic reactions, or adverse effects.
drug information contained herein may be time sensitive.
stop taking ibuprofen and seek medical attention or call your doctor at once if you have any of these serious side effects: less serious side effects may include: this is not a complete list of side effects and others may occur.
do not use this medicine just before or after having heart bypass surgery (also called coronary artery bypass graft, or cabg).
back to top seek emergency medical attention if you think you have used too much of this medicine.
do not take more of this medication than is recommended.
nsaids can also increase your risk of serious effects on the stomach or intestines, including bleeding or perforation (forming of a hole).
this risk will increase  the longer you use an nsaid.
read the label of any other medicine you are using to see if it contains aspirin, ibuprofen, ketoprofen, or naproxen.
avoid exposure to sunlight or artificial uv rays (sunlamps or tanning  beds).
sign in this medicine can increase your risk of life-threatening heart or circulation problems, including heart attack or stroke.
before taking ibuprofen, tell your doctor if you are allergic to any drugs,  or if you have: a history of heart attack, stroke, or blood clot; heart disease, congestive heart failure, high blood pressure; a history of stomach ulcers or bleeding; asthma; polyps in your nose; or liver or kidney disease, a bleeding or blood clotting disorder; or if you smoke.
if you take certain products together you may accidentally take too much of this type of medication.
interactions precautions taking an nsaid can increase your risk of life-threatening heart or  circulation problems, including heart attack or stroke.
if you have questions about the drugs you are taking, check with your doctor, nurse or pharmacist.
if you take certain products together you may  accidentally take too much of this type of medication.
if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and wait until your next regularly scheduled dose.
it is not known whether ibuprofen passes into breast milk or if it could  harm a nursing baby.
alcohol can increase the risk  of stomach bleeding caused by ibuprofen.
fda pregnancy category c.
it is not known whether ibuprofen is harmful to  an unborn baby.
copyright 1996-2004 cerner multum, inc.
nsaids can also increase your risk of serious effects on the stomach or  intestines, including bleeding or perforation (forming of a hole).
if it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed  dose and wait until your next regularly scheduled dose.
do not use any other over-the-counter cold, allergy, or pain medication without first asking your doctor or pharmacist.
remember, keep this and all other medicines out of the reach of children, never share your medicines with others, and use this medication only for the indication prescribed.
less serious side effects may include: upset stomach, mild heartburn, diarrhea, constipation; bloating, gas;
it is not known whether ibuprofen passes into breast milk or if it could harm a nursing baby.
alcohol can increase the risk of stomach bleeding caused by ibuprofen.