immunologic abnormalities 11.
women with sle have an increased risk of  having a pre-term birth, stillbirth, or caesarean section.
women with lupus are three times more likely than  healthy women to develop preeclampsia (pregnancy-related high blood pressure),  which can be potentially life threatening.
in the majority of patients with sle, antinuclear antibodies (ana) are detectable.
the inflammatory process is a byproduct of the activity of the body's immune system, which fights infection and heals wounds and injuries: the infection fighters.
a very serious and rare condition called pulmonary hypertension occurs when high pressure develops as a result of damage to the blood vessels  of the lungs.
central nervous  system symptoms are usually mild, but there is little effective treatment  available for them.
a family history plays a strong role in sle.
swollen rash that itches, typically on scalp, arms, legs,  or in the mouth dermatomyositis: bluish-red skin eruptions on face and upper body lyme disease: bulls-eye rash, joint inflammation, and flu-like symptoms back to top systemic lupus erythematosus (sle) can cause systemic complications  throughout the body.
the first blood test ever used for sle called le (lupus erythematosus) cell test is positive in only about half of patients with sle and is no longer used that often.
treatment of sle varies depending on the extent and severity of the disease.
[for more information, see in-depth reports #3: coronary artery disease; #14: high blood pressure; #23:cholesterol; and #43: heart healthy diet.] people with sle should try to maintain a healthy and active lifestyle.
a rare blood complication of sle  that occurs primarily in asians is called acute lupus hemophagocytic syndrome.
lupus can cause complications in its early stages.
some researchers believe they inhibit the immune response, and others think they interfere specifically with inflammation.
the immune system may perceive these altered skin cells as foreign and trigger an autoimmune response against them.
the effects on blood vessels have also been associated with confusion,  headaches, and seizures.
in healthy people, autoantibodies tend to be well-regulated and well "masked," or covered up, until needed.
in lupus, a complex interaction between activated immune cells and an impaired antigen-elimination process leads to a greater than normal range of what the antibodies recognize.
sle was first described in 1828.
the blood is then returned.
sle affects the lungs in about 60% of patients: the kidneys are a crucial battleground in sle because it is here that the debris left over from the immune attacks is most likely to be deposited.
complement levels are especially low if there is kidney involvement or other disease activity.
oral prednisone (deltasone, orasone) is usually prescribed.
however, many patients with discoid lupus do not respond to steroids, particularly if they have eruptions that are caused by sun sensitivity.
it is not clear if plasmapheresis is beneficial for sle kidney disease.
report of a task force of the eular standing committee for international clinical studies including therapeutics.
pregnancy risks women with lupus are 20 times more likely to die during pregnancy than  women without the disease.
sle is a complex disorder and researchers are still in the early stages of unraveling how genetic factors may alter and affect the immune system.
about 20% of patients have discoid lesions.
regimens vary widely, depending on the severity and location of the disease.
to detect early osteoporosis in patients with sle whose disease has lasted more than 3.5 years, doctors recommend an imaging test called dual energy x-ray absorptiometry (dexa) to measure bone mineral density.
some research suggests that some patients, in fact, progress from one disease to the other, and that such transitions occur during major hormonal shifts, such as the onset of menopause or pregnancy.
a primary cause of death among patients with lupus is atherosclerosis, a disease of the coronary blood vessels resulting from accelerated buildup of plaque.
feb 17;369(9561):587-96.
collaboration, genetic associations, and lupus erythematosus.
ivig is a blood product that contains these antibodies.
steroids can help relieve many of the complications and symptoms, including anemia and kidney involvement.
a number of tests are required  before sle can be diagnosed definitively.
kidney complications (lupus nephritis)
some autoantibodies are normal in a well-balanced immune system, and serve various roles to help the body dispose of wastes, protect from infectious invaders, and to keep blood vessels clear.
specific cytokines called interferons and interleukins play a critical role in sle by regulating the secretion of autoantibodies by b cells.
combinations with other drugs, particularly immunosuppressants, may be beneficial.
chronic stress has profound physical effects and influences the progression of sle.
about 25% of lupus pregnancies result in  miscarriage.
bertsias g, ioannidis jp, boletis j, bombardieri s, cervera r, dostal c, et al.
uv light is categorized as uvb or uva depending on the length of the wave.
lupus-related antibodies.
promising mabs in development for sle treatment include epratuzumab and belimumab.
after menopause, women are only 2.5 times as likely as men to contract sle.
patients with sle sometimes develop inflammation in the blood vessels (vasculitis) that may have the following effects on the skin: other symptoms include: hair loss or breakage may also occur in about half of patients with sle during severe flares or after pregnancy or severe illness.
antibodies to sr proteins.
the following are typical patterns: symptom relapses, or flares, occur on the average of two or three times a  year.
in one study, 40% of patients with sle quit work within 4 years of  diagnosis, and many had to modify their work conditions.
steroid creams are often used for skin lesions.
the immune system is indeed overactive in sle, but it is also abnormal and reduces the ability to fight infections.
these drugs suppress the immune system by damaging cells that grow rapidly, including those that produce antibodies.
lung complications sle affects the lungs in about 60% of patients: inflammation of the membrane lining the lung (pleurisy) is the most  common problem, which can cause shortness of breath and coughing.
complications of the blood almost 85% of patients with sle experience problems associated with  abnormalities in the blood.
the most common symptoms are cotton-wool-like spots on the retina.
side effects of antimalarials may include: the most serious is damage to the retina, although this is very uncommon at low doses.
in some cases, doctors may test for specific ana subtypes.
evidence of severe neurologic disease 9.
the risks decline as such women age.
about 20 - 30% of cases are mild.
joint, muscle, and bone complications arthritis caused by sle almost never leads to destruction or deformity of  joints.
back to top severe sle is treated with corticosteroids, also called steroids, which suppress the inflammatory process.
some people need to take oral prednisone for only a short time; others may require it for a long duration.
the risks decline as such women  age.
for people with lupus, nsaids may help relieve: side effects.
this may simply indicate a greater degree of doctor training in recognizing the syndrome.
repeat tests may be needed.
when they bombard the skin, they can alter the structure of dna in cells below the surface.
2007 dec;3(12):707-15.
side effects of long-term oral corticosteroids.
intravenous immunoglobulins.
it is very important that patients with sle avoid excessive exposure to sunlight.
in 2008, the food and drug administration (fda) warned that mycophenolate mofetil (cellcept, myfortic) should not be used during pregnancy as it can cause miscarriages and birth defects.
patients are not only prone to the ordinary streptococcal and staphylococcal infections, but they are also susceptible to fungal and parasitic infections (called opportunistic infections), which are common in people with weakened immune systems.
they include: more aggressive treatment is needed if there is serious disease progression, as evidenced by: the primary approach to treating severe sle is to suppress the immune factors, most often first with corticosteroids and other immunosuppressant drugs.
three-quarters of patients with sle have skin inflammation and skin lesions (ulcers, rashes, or other injured areas).
discoid lesion rash 3.
in everyday practice, numerous other drugs are commonly used.
the disease may begin in any of the various systems of the body and progress unpredictably to others.
women should discuss with their doctors whether hrt is an appropriate and safe choice.
it occurs as part of the inflammatory response in blood vessels, which can narrow them and reduce circulation.
nat clin pract rheumatol.
rosacea: flushed face with pus-filled blisters seborrheic dermatitis: sores on lips and nose lichen planus:
for patients who need immunosuppressive  therapy, azathioprine (imuran) is an option.
patients who have aps have a very incidence of blood clots, which most  often occur in the deep veins in the legs.
2007 may;46(5):830-2.
click the icon to see an image of the formed elements of blood.
about half of these lesions are photosensitive; that is, they are aggravated by ultraviolet (uv) radiation from sunlight, even from light coming through a window.
if kidney  injury develops, it almost always occurs within 10 years of the onset of sle,  rarely after that.
studies have investigated the relationship among hormones, sle, and rheumatoid arthritis, another autoimmune disease.
nearly all patients with sle report some symptoms relating to problems that occur in the central nervous system (cns), which includes the spinal cord and the brain.
many prescription drugs can cause lupus-like skin symptoms.
other conditions, however, also cause high levels of ana, so a positive test is not a definite diagnosis for sle: a negative ana test makes a diagnosis of sle unlikely but not impossible.
2007 sep;2(5):968-75.
light-to-moderate exercise, interspersed with rest periods, is good for the heart, helps fight depression and fatigue, and can help keep joints flexible.
gompel a, piette jc.
back to top bernatsky s, ramsey-goldman r, isenberg d, rahman a, dooley ma, sibley j, et al.
mycophenolate mofetil for induction therapy of lupus nephritis: a systematic review and meta-analysis.
in such cases, the condition is often known as discoid lupus erythematosus (dle).
patients with sle and other autoimmune disorders have a  greater risk for developing lymph system cancers such as hodgkin's disease and  non-hodgkin's lymphoma (nhl).
kidney transplant or dialysis should be considered for patients with sle with severe kidney damage.
these include high blood pressure (hypertension) medications, including hydrochlorothiazide, angiotensin-converting-enzyme inhibitors, and calcium-channel blockers.
sle is also accompanied by high cholesterol levels, which requires diet changes and drug therapies.
about 40 different drugs have been linked to lupus onset.
causes include: hemolytic anemia can occur with very high levels of the anticardiolipin antibody.
immunosuppressants or intravenous immunoglobulin igg may be helpful in some patients.
symptoms are  the same in both cases: fever, chest pain, labored breathing, and coughing.
such autoantibodies may be present in individuals up to 7 years prior to their developing symptoms of lupus.
these viruses include the epstein-barr virus (the cause of mononucleosis), cytomegalovirus, and parvovirus-b1.
blood infections (sepsis), pneumonia, and urinary  tract infections are more common in pregnant women with lupus.
in such cases, hair  grows back.
oct;121(10 suppl 1):s3-8.
central nervous system complications nearly all patients with sle report some symptoms relating to problems that  occur in the central nervous system (cns), which includes the spinal cord and  the brain.
some drugs have been associated with a temporary lupus syndrome (drug-induced lupus), which resolves when these drugs are stopped.
individual proteins are termed by the letter "c" followed by a number.
common complement tests measure c3, c4, c1q, and ch50.
an eye exam is advisable about every 6 months.
women with sle may have lower levels of several active male hormones (androgens), and some men who are affected by sle may also have abnormal androgen levels.
a brother or sister of a patient with the disorder has 20 times the risk as someone without an immediate family member with sle.
sleep disorders, such as restless legs syndrome and sleep apnea dryness of the eyes and mouth brittle hair or hair loss hair loss or breakage may also occur in about half of patients with sle  during severe flares or after pregnancy or severe illness.
despite these obstacles, many women with lupus have healthy pregnancies and  deliver healthy babies.
sle can affect so many organs that a cause of death in some people  with sle may not be directly attributed to the condition.
the choice of drugs depends on the severity of the condition as well as other factors.
cns symptoms get worse as the disease progresses.
bleeding and clotting disorders antiphospholipid syndrome and clotting disorders.
2006 aug;20(4):685-94.
hydroxychloroquine or aspirin may help prevent blood clots in women with antiphospholipid syndrome (aps).
their actions have complex effects that include causing narrowing and abnormalities of blood vessels.
less intensive treatments may be effective for symptoms of mild lupus.
in about 5% of patients sudden temporary blindness may occur.
treatment early in the course  of the illness improves long-term progress.
after withdrawal from these drugs, this so-called adrenal suppression persists and it can take the body a while (sometimes up to a year) to regain its ability to produce natural steroids again.
2007 jun;13(2):65-70.
an autologous transplant is one in which marrow or blood cells used are the patient's own.
cns involvement is more likely to occur in the first year, usually  during flare-ups in other organs.
small studies have suggested that uva-1 phototherapy may have some benefits for lowering disease activity in sle.
patients with this condition may have the following skin abnormalities: most patients with this condition have only a limited skin disorder.
white and red blood cell and platelet counts are usually lower than normal and, depending on severity, are used to determine complications, such as anemia or infection.
the number and  intensity of symptoms in mild cases often decrease over time, as does the  likelihood of major organ involvement.
b cells and t cells are two important components of the immune system that play a role in the inflammation associated with lupus.
about a third of patients take immunosuppressants at some point in the course of the disease.
(this condition  can also occur in aps, but it is not considered to be one of the standard  features of the syndrome.)
(silicone breast implants have been under intense scrutiny as a possible trigger of autoimmune diseases, including sle.
pregnant women with lupus should try to assemble an interdisciplinary health care team that includes a rheumatologist, high-risk obstetrician, and (for patients with kidney disease) a nephrologist.
best pract res clin rheumatol.
the procedure has shown promise in studies for treating lupus-associated aps, but it is still experimental.
treating pulmonary hypertension.
2007 sep;56(9):3070-9.
common ones include: systemic lupus erythematosus is a complex disorder that most likely results from a combination of processes and factors.
sánchez-guerrero j, gonzález-pérez m, durand-carbajal m, lara-reyes p, jiménez-santana l, romero-díaz j, et al. menopause hormonal therapy in women with systemic lupus erythematosus.
in genetically susceptible people, there are various external factors that can provoke an immune response.
pulmonary hypertension is very serious.
careful hygiene, including dental hygiene, is also important.
therefore, it is probably the high activity and high detestability of autoantibodies that makes lupus unique, not the fact that they exist.
investigational drugs and procedures are also showing promise.
poor kidney function and kidney failure may  result from this damage.
between flares, most patients with sle function at about 90% of normal  capacity.
to increase the odds of a successful pregnancy, it is important for women to plan carefully before becoming pregnant.
diagnosing sle is complicated because symptoms vary widely and can resemble other conditions.
between 34 - 42% of patients with sle  have antiphospholipid syndrome (aps).
neutropenia is a drop in the number of white blood  cells.
in addition, women who have a history of, or who are at high risk for, blood clots (particularly women with antiphospholipid syndrome) should not use ocs.
cochrane database syst rev. 2007
women who have sle should have regular bone mineral density scans to monitor bone health.
kidney damage in patients already diagnosed with sle may be detected from the following tests: lung and heart involvement.
this leads to waxing and waning flares of inflammation that can involve various organs of the body, depending on specific features of this self-perpetuating immune response in individual patients.
it is low-grade except during an acute lupus crisis.
they are much more likely to be present with active sle then with inactive disease.
long-term use of nsaids (with the exception of aspirin) can also increase the risk for heart attack and stroke.
central nervous system symptoms are usually mild, but there is little effective treatment available for them.
fever, seizures, psychosis, and even coma can occur.
rheumatology (oxford).
gastrointestinal complications about 45% of patients with sle suffer gastrointestinal problems, including  nausea, weight loss, mild abdominal pain, and diarrhea.
most patients with sle can eventually function without prednisone, although some may have to choose between the long-term toxicity of corticosteroids and the complications of active disease.
blood clotting, in turn, puts  patients at higher risk for stroke and pulmonary embolism (clots in the lungs).
subclinical atherosclerosis in rheumatoid arthritis and systemic lupus erythematosus.
back to top prognosis systemic lupus erythematosus (sle) is one of the most serious rheumatic  diseases.
a doctor may prescribe antimalarial drugs for discoid lupus (skin sores) or mild lupus when skin problems and joint pains are the predominant symptoms: treatment may start initially with high doses in order to accumulate high levels of the drug in the bloodstream.
heart disease is a primary cause of death in lupus patients.
pregnancy and systemic lupus erythematosus women with lupus who conceive face high-risk pregnancies that increase the  risks for themselves and their babies.
other nsaid side effects may include: patients who have kidney problems associated with lupus (lupus nephritis) should be especially cautious about using nsaids.
nsaids block prostaglandins, the substances that dilate blood vessels and cause inflammation and pain.
click the icon to see an image of raynaud's phenomenon.
maintaining social relationships and healthy activities may also help prevent the depression and anxiety associated with the disease.
antimalarials may also be used in combination with other anti-sle drugs, including immunosuppressants and corticosteroids.
sle may affect various parts of the body, but it most often manifests in the skin, joints, blood, and kidneys.
patients should always use sunblock creams (not just sunscreens) and always wear hats and clothing made of tightly woven fabrics.
patients with lupus who take nsaids on a regular basis should have their liver and kidney function tested every 3 - 4 months.
treatment no drug can cure sle, but many different drugs can help control symptoms and relieve discomfort.
high levels of ana are found in more than 98% of patients with sle.
rheumatoid arthritis.
higher levels of estrogen are associated with sle, whilelower levels are associated with rheumatoid arthritis.
medication use during pregnancy.
prasterone is still in the drug development stage and it is not clear when, or if, it will be commercially available.
women with sle who have active disease, antiphospholipid antibodies, or a history of blood clots or heart disease should not use hrt.
in  about 5% of patients sudden temporary blindness may occur.
symptoms vary widely and overlap with psychiatric or neurologic disorders.
monoclonal antibodies (mabs).
a chest x-ray may be performed to check lung and heart function.
the disease may begin in any of the various systems of the body and  progress unpredictably to others.
(the advantage to an autologous transplant is that the patient's own cells are not at risk for rejection by the immune system.)
a major characteristic of lupus is that it is an autoimmune response in which immune factors, called autoantibodies, attack the person's own cells.
the inflammatory process can, however, damage muscles and cause weakness.
raynaud's phenomenon is a condition in which cold or stress can cause spasms in impaired blood vessels, resulting in pain in fingers and toes.
the inflammatory process can, however, damage muscles and cause  weakness.
their actions have  complex effects that include causing narrowing and abnormalities of blood  vessels.
kidney (renal) function.
the estrogen in ocs increases the risk for blood clots.
clusters of sle cases have occurred in populations with high exposure to certain chemicals.
infections, inflammation, or hypertension in the lungs preventive measures.
the synthetic equivalent of dhea, prasterone (prestara), is being investigated as a potential treatment for sle.
patients with mild sle should still be tested for organ involvement.
unfortunately, serious and even life-threatening complications have been associated with long-term steroid use.
the immune system is indeed overactive in sle, but it is also  abnormal and reduces the ability to fight infections.
immunizations with inactive viruses and preventive antibiotics should be considered for patients with sle who are at high risk for infection.
sle that develops later in life is generally less serious than sle that strikes in childhood or young adulthood.
between 34 - 42% of patients with sle have antiphospholipid syndrome (aps).
possible sle triggers include colds, fatigue, stress, chemicals, sunlight, and certain drugs.
the biopsy will not differentiate between systemic and discoid lupus, but it can rule out other diseases.
about 90% of lupus patients are women, most diagnosed when they are in their childbearing ages.
walsh m, james m, jayne d, tonelli m, manns bj, hemmelgarn br.
it is generally of short duration and characterized by fever and a sudden drop in blood cells and platelets.
anti-ssa and anti-ssb antibodies can increase the risk for  neonatal lupus erythematosus, a condition that can cause skin rash and liver  and heart damage to the newborn baby.
these include: systemic lupus erythematosus (sle) is a chronic, often life-long, autoimmune disease.
in addition, sle treatments (particularly  corticosteroids) affect cholesterol, weight, and other factors that can also  affect the heart.
click the icon to see an image of primary pulmonary  hypertension.
steroids appear to pose a low risk for birth defects, but  can increase a pregnant woman's risks for gestational diabetes, high blood  pressure, infection, and osteoporosis.
in general, the ana test is considered a screening test: ana subtypes.
because of more effective and aggressive treatment, the prognosis for sle has improved markedly over the past two decades.
it is not clear whether hrt triggers sle flares.
both transplantation and dialysis have potentially serious complications.
characterized by dry eyes and dry mouth mixed connective tissue disorder: similar to sle, but milder myositis: inflammation and degeneration of muscle tissues
about 50% of patients with sle exhibit inflammation of the kidneys  (calledlupus nephritis).this condition occurs in different forms and  can vary from mild to severe.
it is not known exactly why antimalarials work.
[for more information, seein-depth report #18: osteoporosis.]
patients with mild sle should still be  tested for organ involvement.
the first symptoms of sle can  resemble one of many syndromes or disorders, including rheumatoid arthritis,  still's disease, rheumatic fever, lyme disease, multiple sclerosis, thrombotic  thrombocytopenia purpura, cryoglobulinemia, weber-christian disease, viral  infections, vasculitis, psychosis, and other conditions.
in thrombocytopenia, antibodies attack and destroy  blood platelets.
patients with sle, have a higher risk for developing the following conditions, which put them at risk for heart attack or stroke: the risk for cardiovascular disease, heart attack, and stroke is much higher than average in younger women with sle.
no one should stop taking any steroids without consulting a doctor first, and if steroids are withdrawn, regular follow-up monitoring is necessary.
an electrocardiogram and an echocardiogram are administered if heart disease is suspected.
(aspirin does not appear to be protective in men who carry the autoantibodies responsible for aps.)
systematic lupus erythematosus (sle)
(abnormal spleen function, in any case, appears to be fairly common in sle.)
the kidneys are a crucial battleground in sle because it is here that the  debris left over from the immune attacks is most likely to be deposited.
a primary test for sle checks for antinuclear antibodies (ana), which attack the cell nucleus.
drugs known as prostacylins -- which include epoprostenol, iloprost, and treprostinil -- are standard drugs.
fever, seizures,  psychosis, and even coma can occur.
women with active disease may  need to take low-dose corticosteroids, but women with inactive disease should  avoid these drugs.
about 85 - 95% of people with lupus  survive 10 years, and many people have a normal life span.
a test known as a lupus band detects antibodies known as immunoglobulin g (igg), which are located just below the outer layer of the tissue sample.
women with lupus have a 6 times greater risk for  developing deep vein thrombosis (blood clots) than women without the disease.
the risk is highest for patients with antiphospholipid antibodies,  active kidney disease, or high blood pressure.
flares also become somewhat less common after menopause in women who have chronic sle.
the test accurately detects lupus in 50 - 70% of patients who test positive for these antibodies.
they also  face an increased risk for urinary tract, herpes, salmonella, and yeast  infections.
to increase the odds of a successful pregnancy, it is  important for women to plan carefully before becoming pregnant.
the disease is rare in childhood.
in particular, some research suggests a strong association between epstein-barr virus (ebv) and increased risk of lupus, particularly for african-americans.
there is some concern that allergy shots may cause flare ups in certain cases.
the exact combination of genes that predispose individuals to sle may differ somewhat from patient to patient, but probably share certain common features which tend to impair the ability of the body to get rid of immune-triggering particles and which tend to prolong or increase the degree of immune responsiveness to these triggers.
corticosteroid and immunosuppressants, treatments used for sle,  also increase the risk for infections, thereby compounding the problem.
inflammation of the pancreas can be caused by the disease and by  corticosteroid therapy.
its very name helps define the disease: lupus has many different symptoms.
about half of patients with sle are anemic.
infections  followed by kidney failure are the chief causes of death in patients with sle.
low blood platelet count and anemia are  also risks.
regular, long-term use of nsaids can cause ulcers and gastrointestinal bleeding, which can lead to anemia.
abnormalities in the valves of the heart (rare) blood clots the risk for cardiovascular disease, heart attack, and stroke is much  higher than average in younger women with sle.
research suggests that the following factors predict a successful pregnancy: disease state at time of conception.
autologous stem cell transplantation.
systemic lupus erythematosus.
other cns side effects include: infections are a common complication and a major cause of death in all stages of sle.
research suggests that the following factors predict a successful pregnancy: pregnancy risks women with lupus are 20 times more likely to die during pregnancy than women without the disease.
evidence of kidney disease 8.
crosbie d, black c, mcintyre l, royle pl, thomas s. dehydroepiandrosterone for systemic lupus erythematosus.
for reasons that are still not completely understood, both the t cells and b cells become overactive in lupus patients.
this is comprised of more than 30 proteins and is important for defending and regulating the immune response.
a mab is a laboratory-made protein that targets specific immune cells, such as b cells.
(this condition can also occur in aps, but it is not considered to be one of the standard features of the syndrome.)
the following are typical patterns: the degree of severity depends on different factors: vital organs or systems, such as lungs, kidneys, nervous system, joints skin, and others are affected in over a half of patients with sle.
kocis p. prasterone.
the risk for maternal death is due to the following  serious conditions that can develop during pregnancy: miscarriages.
a number of other chemicals are under investigation.
it can be mild to severe, and affects mostly women.
not all patients with aps carry both of the autoantibodies, and they can also wax and wane and so have varying effects.
a cream derived from vitamin a (tegison) may help some lesions that do not clear up with steroid creams.
a promising treatment uses ultraviolet a-1 (uva-1) radiation, long uva wave lengths that do not promote sunburn and may actually block inflammatory immune factors.
patients with mild sle may be helped by nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (nsaids) while patients with more severe sle may require corticosteroids or immunosuppressants.
click the icon to see an image of an electrocardiogram.
oral contraceptives.
systemic lupus erythematosus and pregnancy.
blood disorders, including low red and white blood cell and platelet counts 10.
about 50% of patients with sle exhibit inflammation of the kidneys (calledlupus nephritis).this condition occurs in different forms and can vary from mild to severe.
women should make sure that their kidney  function is evaluated prior to conception.
patients with sle often neutropenia, but the condition is usually  harmless unless the reductions are so severe that they leave the patient  vulnerable to infections.
excess bleeding from thrombocytopenia (drop in blood platelets).
some subtypes of ana are found in lupus patients and only rarely in people without lupus.
tests for other antibodies will rule out or confirm discoid lupus and subacute cutaneous lupus.
raynaud's phenomenon raynaud's phenomenon is a condition in which cold or stress can cause  spasms in impaired blood vessels, resulting in pain in fingers and toes.
causes include: iron deficiencies resulting from excessive menstruation iron deficiencies from gastro-intestinal bleeding caused by some of the  treatments a specific anemia called hemolytic anemia, which destroys red blood  cells anemia of chronic disease hemolytic anemia can occur with very high levels of the anticardiolipin  antibody.
heart disease the need for aggressive treatment of high blood pressure often accompanies kidney disease.
sildenafil (viagra, revatio) may also be used for this condition.
however, antibiotic drugs such as penicillin or the sulfa drugs may cause sensitivity rashes that can be confused with sle rash.
socioeconomic consequences
severe inflammation of  the intestinal tract occurs in less than 5% of patients and causes acute  cramping, vomiting, diarrhea, and, rarely, intestinal perforation, which can be  life-threatening.
antiphospholipid syndrome.
therapy insight: osteoporosis and osteonecrosis in systemic lupus erythematosus.
neutropenia is a drop in the number of white blood cells.
plasmapheresis is a process in which the fluid part of the blood, called plasma, is removed from blood cells.
these complications  increase the risk for preeclampsia and miscarriage.
corticosteroid and immunosuppressants, treatments used for sle, also increase the risk for infections, thereby compounding the problem.
this is a specific set of conditions  related to the presence of autoantibodies calledlupus anticoagulant and anticardiolipin.
they are discussed elsewhere in this report.
researchers are conducting numerous clinical studies and drug investigations.
long-term use of oral steroid medications suppresses secretion of natural steroid hormones by the adrenal glands.
rare) click the icon to see an image of pericarditis.
eye damage after taking hydroxychloroquine is reversible when caught in time and treated, but it is not reversible if the damage develops after taking chloroquine.
dehydroepiandrosterone (dhea) is a natural steroid hormone that is produced by the adrenal glands and converted into estrogen and androgen.
the most common symptom is joint pain, which occurs in about 90% of patients with sle.
heart and circulation complications heart disease is a primary cause of death in lupus patients.
there are also different drugs available to treat some of the conditions associated with lupus.
poor kidney function can worsen high  blood pressure and cause excess protein in the urine.
eventually, antibodies are made that recognize more of the body's own tissues in a stronger or more persistent manner than is healthy, and inflammatory responses are mounted in these tissues.
positive antinuclear antibody (ana) note: a patient must experienced four of the criteria before a doctor can classify the condition as sle.
ultraviolet (uv) rays found in sunlight are important sle triggers.
in general, patients with sle should use only hypoallergenic cosmetics or hair products.
dehydroepiandrosterone (dhea).
if kidney injury develops, it almost always occurs within 10 years of the onset of sle, rarely after that.
in extreme cases, gangrene can result.
this immune activation may begin as an appropriate response to an unwanted "invader."
a number of tests are required before sle can be diagnosed definitively.
some patients with severe lupus have achieved at least short-term remission after undergoing autologous transplantation of stem cells and high-dose drug therapy to suppress the damaging immune factors.
when a t cell recognizes an antigen it will produce chemicals (cytokines) that cause b cells to multiply and release many immune proteins (antibodies).
there are dozens of nsaids.
feb 28;358(9):929-39.
back to top no single test can confirm or rule out sle.
bosentan (tracleer) is the first oral drug approved for pulmonary hypertension.
they also face an increased risk for urinary tract, herpes, salmonella, and yeast infections.
in thrombocytopenia, antibodies attack and destroy blood platelets.
in patients with sle in whom blood abnormalities are suspected, tests may be able to detect the presence of the two major antiphospholipid antibodies: as with the ana, these antibodies also have a tendency to appear and disappear in a single patient.
conditions with similar symptoms a number of conditions overlap with sle: scleroderma: hardening of the skin caused by overproduction of collagen rheumatoid arthritis: inflammation of the lining of the joints sjögren syndrome:
sle can affect so many organs that a cause of death in some people with sle may not be directly attributed to the condition.
subacute cutaneous lupus erythematosus.
female patients with lupus used to be cautioned against taking oral contraceptives (ocs) due to the possibility that estrogen could trigger lupus flare-ups.
eye complications inflamed blood vessels in the eye can reduce blood supply to the retina,  resulting in degeneration of nerve cells and a risk of hemorrhage in the  retina.
patients should be sure they are fully immunized and should minimize their exposure to crowds or people with contagious illnesses.
about 45% of patients with sle suffer gastrointestinal problems, including nausea, weight loss, mild abdominal pain, and diarrhea.
the most serious cns disorder is inflammation of the blood vessels in the  brain (vasculitis), which occurs in 10% of patients with sle.
many patients with sle have 'flares,' in which symptoms suddenly worsen and then disappear for long periods of time.
this condition needs to be treated with corticosteroids or immunosuppressants, but only if the doctor is sure infection is not present.
acute lupus hemophagocyte syndrome.
symptoms and diagnosis not all patients with sle experience the same symptoms.
grapefruit juice has an enzyme that may enhance the effects of some immunosuppressants.
arthritis caused by sle almost never leads to destruction or deformity of joints.
living with sle patients can make lifestyle changes to help cope with sle.
women with lupus who conceive face high-risk pregnancies that increase the risks for themselves and their babies.
because of more effective and aggressive treatment, the prognosis for sle  has improved markedly over the past two decades.
2006 nov 15;63(22):2201-10.
it is important for women to understand the potential complications and plan accordingly.
sabahi r, anolik jh.
immunoglobulins are antibodies produced by immune system b-lymphocyte cells.
mycophenolate mofetil (cellcept, myfortic) and intravenous cyclophosphamide, as well as steroids are used to treat lupus kidney disease.
the first symptoms of sle can resemble one of many syndromes or disorders, including rheumatoid arthritis, still's disease, rheumatic fever, lyme disease, multiple sclerosis, thrombotic thrombocytopenia purpura, cryoglobulinemia, weber-christian disease, viral infections, vasculitis, psychosis, and other conditions.
treatments that may be effective for thrombocytopenia include combinations of a corticosteroid and either danazol (a male hormone) or the antimalarial hydroxychloroquine.
medications that can prevent osteoporosis include calcium supplements, parathyroid hormone, alendronate risedronate, or hormone replacement therapy in post-menopausal women.
also, the immune response can also attack different parts of the kidney causing damage.
sun protection is essential.
cns involvement is more likely to occur in the first year, usually during flare-ups in other organs.
the most important advice is to avoid becoming pregnant when lupus is active.
sle occurring in the central nervous system (cns) can be difficult to diagnose because its symptoms are easily confused with other psychiatric and neurologic conditions.
b cells and t cells are involved in the immune system's response to infection.
patients with sle also commonly experience reductions in bone mass  density (osteoporosis) and have a higher risk for fractures, whether or not  they are taking corticosteroids (which can increase the risk for osteoporosis).
a few cases of severe adrenal insufficiency have occurred when patients switched from oral to inhaled steroids, which, in rare cases, has resulted in death.
sle that develops  later in life is generally less serious than sle that strikes in childhood or  young adulthood.
inherited deficiencies in certain complement components (c1q, c1r, c1s, c4, and c2) have long been associated with sle.
characteristic rash across the cheek 2.
other side effects associated with prolonged use of oral steroids include: withdrawal from long-term use of oral corticosteroids.
systemic lupus erythematosus and hormone replacement therapy.
women with lupus are 3 times more likely to need a transfusion  during pregnancy than women without lupus.
serious complications occur eventually in about 30% of patients.
guidelines recommend that women who take hrt use the lowest possible dose for the shortest possible time.
blood tests of patients with sle often show low levels of serum complement, a protein in the blood that aids the body's infection fighters.
infections followed by kidney failure are the chief causes of death in patients with sle.
fluid retention and swelling can cause intestinal obstruction, which is much less serious but causes the same type of severe pain.
surgical removal of the spleen may be advisable if bleeding disorders are a serious problem, but this option should be considered carefully, because the spleen provides one line of defense against infection.
aps also occurswithout lupus in about half of patients with the syndrome.
back to top sle symptoms may develop slowly over months or years, or they may appear suddenly.
people with lower income jobs were at particular risk for leaving them.
lymphocytes help fight infection.
while inflammation of the lung (pneumonitis) resembles pneumonia, it is not an infection but is a result of the autoimmune process.
click the icon to see an image of the kidney.
these antibodies circulate widely in the bloodstream, recognizing the foreign particles and triggering inflammation in order to rid the body of the invasion.
treating lung inflammation.
women who have been newly diagnosed with lupus should avoid ocs.
genetic research in lupus is progressing very rapidly, and hopefully new drugs will be approved in the future.
in only about 10% of cases does discoid lupus develop into full-blown sle.
these criteria, proposed by the american college of rheumatology, are not to be relied upon solely for diagnosis, however.
almost 85% of patients with sle experience problems associated with abnormalities in the blood.
in addition, sle treatments (particularly corticosteroids) affect cholesterol, weight, and other factors that can also affect the heart.
it is important for women to understand  the potential complications and plan accordingly.
severe inflammation of the intestinal tract occurs in less than 5% of patients and causes acute cramping, vomiting, diarrhea, and, rarely, intestinal perforation, which can be life-threatening.
am j health syst pharm.
hormones may be an explanation.
more commonly, sle is a chronic, life-long  disease, alternating between periods of symptom relapse, (called flares), and  remission.
lung infections need to be treated aggressively with antibiotics.
other autoimmune disorders, such as sjögren syndrome or scleroderma, may even be present at the same time as sle.
sle is unpredictable and varies greatly form one individual to the next.
scientists are investigating other treatment options, including autologous stem cell transplantation.
smoking may be a risk factor for triggering sle and can increase the risk for skin and kidney problems in women who have the disease.
2007 nov 3;335(7626):933-6.
african-americans are three to four times more likely to develop the disease than caucasians and to have severe complications.
researchers are working to develop new drugs and treatments for sle.
the bone-thinning condition osteoporosis is a common and particularly severe long-term side effect of prolonged steroid use.
however, recent evidence indicates that ocs are safe, at least for women with inactive or stable lupus.
in patients who have experienced blood clots, treatment with the anticoagulant warfarin (coumadin) is advisable.
overview sle is an autoimmune disease that causes a chronic inflammatory condition.
b cell over-activation has been identified as a key component of the lupus disease process.
the most common immunosuppressants are: the most frequent side effects of immunosuppressants include: serious side effects of immunosuppressants include: in general, immunosuppressants should not be used alone unless corticosteroids are ineffective or inappropriate.
the risk for maternal death is due to the following serious conditions that can develop during pregnancy: despite these obstacles, many women with lupus have healthy pregnancies and deliver healthy babies.
it can be caused by infections or by the sle inflammatory process.
the most serious cns disorder is inflammation of the blood vessels in the brain (vasculitis), which occurs in 10% of patients with sle.
patients are not only  prone to the ordinary streptococcal and staphylococcal infections, but they are  also susceptible to fungal and parasitic infections (called opportunistic  infections), which are common in people with weakened immune systems.
klareskog l, padyukov l, alfredsson l. smoking as a trigger for inflammatory rheumatic diseases.
criteria for diagnosing system lupus erythematosus 1.
plasmapheresis is not useful for routine management of patients but may have some benefits for patients who do not respond to standard treatments or in specific cases, such as lupus patients with hemolytic anemia.
it is generally of short duration and characterized by fever and a sudden drop  in blood cells and platelets.
clotting complications.
researchers estimate that 20 - 100 different genetic factors may make a person susceptible to sle.back to top the number of people diagnosed with lupus has more than tripled over the past four decades.
anyone diagnosed with cutaneous lupus erythematosus should be sure to tell their doctors all the medications (including herbs and supplements) that they are taking.
a doctor will base an sle diagnosis on certain specific criteria including symptom history and the results of blood tests for antinuclear antibodies.
leg ulcers can also develop.
inflammation of the pancreas can be caused by the disease and by corticosteroid therapy.
patients who may benefit from them should discuss risks and benefits with an sle specialist.
these autoantibodies react against fatty molecules called phospholipids, and so are called antiphospholipids.
the plasma, which contains the inflammatory antibodies and other immunologically active substances, is discarded and replaced with other fluids.
in such cases, hair grows back.
about 85 - 95% of people with lupus survive 10 years, and many people have a normal life span.
stem cells are the early forms for all blood cells in the body.
the inflammation triggered by sle affects many organs in the body, including skin, joints, kidneys, lung, and nervous system.
the only symptoms may be the skin rashes of discoid lupus erythematosus (dle) or subacute cutaneous lupus erythematosus (scle) with or without joint aches.
antigens are foreign bodies (such as bacteria and viruses) that stimulate the immune system to produce autoantibodies.
an intravenous administration of methylprednisolone using "pulse" therapy for 3 days is proving useful for flare-ups in the joints.
patients should discuss with their doctors measures for preventing adrenal insufficiency during withdrawal, particularly during stressful times, when the risk increases.
they may also be caused by of some medications used for sle.
sle in children may also be caused by certain medications, including minocycline and zafirlukast.
characteristics of this symptom vary widely: children may experience these symptoms as growing pains, and, in all patients, they may be the only symptoms for many years.
rarely, lupus pneumonitis becomes chronic and causes scarring in the lungs,  which reduces their ability to deliver oxygen to the blood.
patients with sle also commonly experience reductions in bone mass density (osteoporosis) and have a higher risk for fractures, whether or not they are taking corticosteroids (which can increase the risk for osteoporosis).
high or low concentrations of ana also do not necessarily indicate the severity of the disease, since antibodies tend to come and go in patients with sle.
clin j am soc nephrol.
significant factors  that predicted job loss included high physical demands from the work itself, a  more severe condition at the time of diagnosis, and lower educational levels.
this is a specific set of conditions related to the presence of autoantibodies calledlupus anticoagulant and anticardiolipin.
it  occurs as part of the inflammatory response in blood vessels, which can narrow  them and reduce circulation.
hispanics and asians are also more susceptible to the disease.
other cns side effects include: irritability mild impairment of concentration and memory migraine and tension headaches problems with the reflex systems, sensation, vision, hearing, and motor  control infections infections are a common complication and a major cause of death in all
patients with sle and other autoimmune disorders have a greater risk for developing lymph system cancers such as hodgkin's disease and non-hodgkin's lymphoma (nhl).
back to top systemic lupus erythematosus (sle) is one of the most serious rheumatic diseases.
another immune factor of high interest in sle is the complement system.
most immune cells secrete or stimulate the production of powerful immune factors called cytokines.
chlorinated pesticides and crystalline silica are two suspects.
2006 oct;2(10):562-9.
d'cruz dp, khamashta ma, hughes gr.
significant factors that predicted job loss included high physical demands from the work itself, a more severe condition at the time of diagnosis, and lower educational levels.
back to top no treatment cures systemic lupus erythematosus, but many therapies can suppress symptoms and relieve discomfort.
not all patients with aps carry both of the autoantibodies, and they can  also wax and wane and so have varying effects.
in some cases, fluid accumulates, a condition called pleural effusio n. inflammation of the lung tissue itself is called lupus pneumonitis.
if a skin rash is present, the doctor may take a biopsy (a tissue sample) from the margin of a skin lesion.
methotrexate (rheumatrex) and  cyclophosphamide (cytoxan) should not be taken during pregnancy.
a primary cause of  death among patients with lupus is atherosclerosis, a disease of the coronary  blood vessels resulting from accelerated buildup of plaque.
intravenous immunoglobulins (ivig) are sometimes used for patients who have not responded to other sle treatments.
patients with sle may be more likely to have been exposed to certain viruses than the general population.
shorter uvb wavelengths cause the most harm.
salmon je, roman mj.
however, it is very difficult to determine a causal role for any specific chemicals.
lung transplantation may be required.
inflammation of membranes in the lungs, the heart, or the abdomen 7.
the degree of severity depends on different factors: severity of the inflammatory response frequency of episodes the degree of organ or system involvement vital organs or systems, such as lungs, kidneys, nervous system, joints  skin, and others are affected in over a half of patients with sle.
discoid lupus erythematosus.
patients with aps who become pregnant have a high incidence of pregnancy  loss, especially in the late term.
these lesions do not cause scarring.
in one study, 40% of patients with sle quit work within 4 years of diagnosis, and many had to modify their work conditions.
hormone replacement therapy (hrt), which is used to relieve these symptoms, increases the risk for blood clots and heart problems.
also,  the immune response can also attack different parts of the kidney causing  damage.
when it does occur, it is often associated with thrombotic thrombocytopenia purpura, a condition resulting from abnormally low levels of blood platelets.
levels of these antibodies should be  tested at the start of pregnancy.
specific immunosuppressants.
epub 2007 aug 8.back to top treating major depression meditation and stress cravings and weight loss your rights as a patient flu overview sleep and pain flu prevention the role of a caregiver how to quit for good cold and flu smarts for kids diet & energy choosing bone density tests bmi calculator calcium calculator diabetes risk quiz heart attack risk calculator calories burned calculator colon cancer risk quiz
the procedure involves first taking blood from the patient.
antiphospholipid antibodies.
harel-meir m, sherer y, shoenfeld y. tobacco smoking and autoimmune rheumatic diseases.
both b cells and t cells belong to a family of immune cells called lymphocytes.
methods for measuring the antibodies involved with sle vary, and the range of results can be bewildering.
environmental factors, such as viruses, exposure to chemicals, or sunlight, trigger inflammatory or immune activity.
hodgkin's lymphoma in systemic lupus erythematosus.
antinuclear antibodies (anas).
in such cases, blood clotting is impaired, which causes  bruising and bleeding from the skin, nose, gums, or intestines.
treatment early in the course of the illness improves long-term progress.
the immune response in sle can cause chronic inflammation and other damaging effects that can cause significant injury to the arteries and tissues associated with the circulation and the heart.
kidney damage and lupus nephritis.
treating infections.
drugs known as immunosuppressants are often used, either alone or with corticosteroids for very active sle, particularly when kidney or neurologic involvement or acute blood vessel inflammation is present.
the number and intensity of symptoms in mild cases often decrease over time, as does the likelihood of major organ involvement.
back to top diagnosis no single test can confirm or rule out sle.
symptoms tend to be worse during winter months, perhaps because prolonged exposure to sunlight in the summer causes a gradual build-up of factors that trigger symptoms months later.
for unknown reasons, sle does not generally recur in the transplanted kidneys.
to avoid these problems, it's best to take nsaids with food or immediately after a meal.
the weight of evidence to date, however, finds no support for this concern.)
a rare blood complication of sle that occurs primarily in asians is called acute lupus hemophagocytic syndrome.
these include: cytokines.
patients who have these autoantibodies as well as blood clotting problems or frequent miscarriage are diagnosed with antiphospholipid syndrome (aps), which often occurs in sle but can also develop independently.
2007 jan;19(1):49-54.
central nervous system complications.
in general, estrogen enhances antibody production, and testosterone reduces antibody production, although their exact role in sle may be more complicated than that since there are various ways in which each hormone might influence various immune cells.
premature menopause, and its accompanying symptoms (such as hot flashes), is common in women with sle.
certain medications (aspirin, heparin) and  tests (fetal heart monitoring) may be needed to ensure a safe pregnancy.
the only symptoms may  be the skin rashes of discoid lupus erythematosus (dle) or subacute cutaneous  lupus erythematosus (scle) with or without joint aches.
simple preventive measures include avoiding overexposure to ultraviolet rays and wearing protective clothing and sunblocks.
feb 28;358(9):956-61.
symptoms can develop slowly or appear suddenly.
the major complications of the disease must be treated as separate problems, keeping in mind the specific aspects of sle.
mackillop lh, germain sj, nelson-piercy c. systemic lupus erythematosus.
this blood-thinning drug may be needed lifelong.
in small amounts, cytokines are indispensable for maintaining the balance of the body during immune responses, including: if overproduced, however, they can cause serious damage, including dangerous levels of inflammation and cellular injury.
a number of conditions overlap with sle: systemic lupus erythematosus (sle) can cause systemic complications throughout the body.
patients with sle, have a higher risk for developing the following  conditions, which put them at risk for heart attack or stroke: atherosclerosis, or plaque buildup in the arteries increased stiffness in the arteries unhealthy cholesterol and lipid (fatty molecules) levels high blood pressure, most likely because of kidney injury and  corticosteroid treatments heart failure pericarditis, an inflammation of the tissue surrounding the heart myocarditis, an inflammation of the heart muscle itself (
patients with sle often neutropenia, but the condition is usually harmless unless the reductions are so severe that they leave the patient vulnerable to infections.
other autoimmune  disorders, such as sjögren syndrome or scleroderma, may even be present at  the same time as sle.
more commonly, sle is a chronic, life-long disease, alternating between periods of symptom relapse, (called flares), and remission.
birth complications.
only three drugs are fda-approved for the treatment of lupus: however, none of these drugs are the current standard of care.
it should be noted that smoking significantly reduces the effectiveness of antimalarial drugs.
the immune  response in sle can cause chronic inflammation and other damaging effects that  can cause significant injury to the arteries and tissues associated with the  circulation and the heart.
studies are conflicting, however, over whether sle transplant patients have higher organ-rejection rates than other kidney-transplant recipients.
doctors strongly recommend  that women wait to conceive until their disease state has been inactive for at  least 6 months.
(uv radiation may even trigger systemic flares in patients with sle.)
kidney disease drugs.
antiphospholipid and anticardiolipin  antibodies can increase the risks for preeclampsia, miscarriage, and  stillbirths.
b-cell-targeted therapy for systemic lupus erythematosus.
an advance in diagnosing sle has been the detection of antibodies to molecules called sr proteins, which are carried by most patients.
an inhaled iloprost formulation (ventavis) was approved in 2004.
osteoporosis treatments for osteoporosis include calcium, vitamin d, bisphosphonates, parathyroid hormone, and selective estrogen-receptor modulators (serms).
cytokines, major immune factors that are active in sle, are directly affected by sex hormones.
poor kidney function and kidney failure may result from this damage.
click  the icon to see an image of raynaud's phenomenon.
these autoantibodies react against fatty molecules  called phospholipids, and so are called antiphospholipids.
subacute cutaneous lupus erythematosus (scle) can cause skin lesions on parts of the body that are exposed to sunlight.
eular recommendations for the management of systemic lupus erythematosus.
the most common symptoms are joint pain, skin rash, and fever.
the normal immune system response.
rahman a, isenberg da.
women, especially african-american and asian women, are at highest risk for developing sle.
other drugs include methylprednisolone (medrol, solumedrol), hydrocortisone, and dexamethasone (decadron).
fever occurs in 90% of patients with sle and is usually caused by the inflammatory process of the disease, not by infection.
the most important advice is  to avoid becoming pregnant when lupus is active.
click the icon to see an image of osteoporosis.
a number of different skin conditions have been described in patients with sle.
inflamed blood vessels in the eye can reduce blood supply to the retina, resulting in degeneration of nerve cells and a risk of hemorrhage in the retina.
be sure to find  knowledgeable doctors with whom you can communicate and trust.
pregnant women  with lupus should try to assemble an interdisciplinary health care team that  includes a rheumatologist, high-risk obstetrician, and (for patients with  kidney disease) a nephrologist.
fluid retention and swelling can cause intestinal  obstruction, which is much less serious but causes the same type of severe  pain.
be sure to find knowledgeable doctors with whom you can communicate and trust.
getting adequate rest of at least 8 hours and possibly napping during the day may be helpful.
but, because of a combination of genetic factors, an individual with lupus develops an ongoing immune response that does not shut itself off appropriately.
women who have sle should have regular bone mineral density scans to monitor  bone health.
in such cases, blood clotting is impaired, which causes bruising and bleeding from the skin, nose, gums, or intestines.
it can be chronic or develop suddenly and be severely (acute).
for this reason, women should wait until the disease reaches a stable state before taking ocs.