however, numerous reports of heart attacks and stroke have prompted the fda to re-evaluate the risks and benefits of the cox-2s.
every type of pain medicine has  benefits and risks.
acetaminophen is a non-aspirin pain reliever.
otc  medicines include: acetaminophen (tylenol) nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (nsaids)
specific types of pain may respond better to one kind of medication than to another kind.
twitter digg facebook more... email print rss a.d.a.m., inc. is accredited by urac, also known as the american accreditation healthcare commission (www.urac.org).
reye syndrome is associated with the use of aspirin to treat children with viral infections, such as chicken pox or the flu.
take our short survey shortcuts - health information & news - diseases & conditions - drug guide - health news - newsletters - tests & procedures - health videos - shop - manage my health - calculators & tools - find a doctor - personal health record - symptom checker - health hubs - complementary & alternative medicine - cancer - children's health - colds & flu - diabetes - first aid & safety - fitness - - healthy pregnancy - healthy weight, healthy kids - heart health - men's health - mental health, stress & grief - nutrition - pain management - - parenting - respiratory diseases - saving & paying for health care - seniors' health - take charge of your health - women's health help | about us | advertise with us | contact us | feedback | advisory board | learn about nowclinic © 2012 optumhealth, inc. | terms and conditions | privacy and security policy | advertising and editorial policy myoptumhealth.com does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment recommendations.
this medicine is easier  on the stomach than other pain medications, and it is safer for children.
it can, however, be harmful to the liver if you take more than the recommended dose.
a.d.a.m. is among the first to achieve this important distinction for online health information and services.
what takes away your pain might not work for  someone else.
over-the-counter pain medicines over-the-counter (otc) medications are good for many types of pain.
urac's accreditation program is the first of its kind, requiring compliance with 53 standards of quality and accountability, verified by independent audit.
however,  acetaminophen does not reduce swelling (inflammation).
facebook more... email print rss related articles alternative names medications for pain; drugs for pain; analgesics back to top information pain medicines are also called analgesics.
see:acetaminophen overdose nsaids include aspirin, naproxen, and ibuprofen.
these medicines relieve pain, but they also reduce inflammation caused by injury,arthritis, or fever.
learn more about a.d.a.m.'s editorial process.
nsaids work by reducing the production of hormone-like substances that cause pain.
please enter your email address.
however, numerous reports of heart attacks and stroke have  prompted the fda to re-evaluate the risks and benefits of the cox-2s.
if you have high blood pressure, kidney disease, or a history of gastrointestinal bleeding, you should talk to your health care provider before using any over-the-counter nsaid.
these medicines relieve  pain, but they also reduce inflammation caused by injury,arthritis, or fever.
alternatives to pain medicine
prescription pain medicines prescription medications may be needed for other types of pain.
my benefits - home - health hubs - women's health - men's health - children's health - seniors' health - healthy pregnancy - parenting - healthy weight, healthy kids - cancer - diabetes - fitness - nutrition - saving & paying for health care - heart - mental health - first aid & safety - view all health hubs - diseases & conditions - asthma - attention deficit hyperactivity disorder - back pain and sciatica - cholesterol - colds and the flu - fever blisters and canker sores - gingivitis - headaches - tension - high blood pressure - type 2 diabetes - view all diseases & conditions - tests & procedures - allergy testing - blood pressure - colonoscopy - coronary angiography - electrocardiogram - heart bypass surgery - holter monitor (24h) - knee joint replacement - lasik eye surgery - pulmonary function tests - view all tests & procedures - drug guide - find a drug - interactions calculator - recalls and alerts - approvals - commonly searched drugs - acetaminophen - advair diskus - ambien - azithromycin - cymbalta - lexapro - lipitor - lisinopril - norvasc - oxycodone - view all drugs - manage my health - symptom checker - personal health record - find a doctor - bmi calculator - calcium calculator - calories burned calculator - children's growth calculator - fertility calculator - fitness assessment - heart attack risk calculator - view all tools
cox-2 inhibitors are a type of prescription painkiller that block an inflammation-promoting substance called cox-2.
you will receive the next issue of healthclicks as soon as available.
narcotic painkillers are very strong, potentially habit-forming medicines  used to treat severe pain.
do not give aspirin to children.
cox-2  inhibitors are a type of prescription painkiller that block an  inflammation-promoting substance called cox-2.
it is not a substitute for your doctor or other health care professional's care.
every type of pain medicine has benefits and risks.
the material on this site is for informational purposes only.
patients  should ask their doctor whether a cox-2 drug is appropriate and safe for them.
talk to your doctor if your pain lasts longer than a few days, if  over-the-counter pain medications do not relieve your pain, or if other  symptoms develop.
a.d.a.m. is also a founding member of hi-ethics (www.hiethics.com) and subscribes to the principles of the health on the net foundation (www.hon.ch).
they include morphine and codeine.
talk to your doctor if your pain lasts longer than a few days, if over-the-counter pain medications do not relieve your pain, or if other symptoms develop.
- shop home pain medications email print follow us rss pain medications share - alternative names - information what is this?
you might ask your doctor about alternatives to pain medicines, which include: back to top - heat - ice - massage - rest - biofeedback - relaxation techniques share what is this?
the email address you've entered is already on our subscription list.
a pain specialist may be needed to help control long-term  pain.
help us continually improve.
this class of drugs was initially believed to work as well as traditional nsaids, but with fewer stomach problems.
narcotic painkillers are very strong, potentially habit-forming medicines used to treat severe pain.
this class of drugs was  initially believed to work as well as traditional nsaids, but with fewer  stomach problems.
sign up for our free email newsletter (learn more) please enter a valid email address.
medications for pain; drugs for pain; analgesics back to top information pain medicines are also called analgesics.
explore myoptumhealth videos view all health videos » - treating major depression - meditation and stress - cravings and weight loss - your rights as a patient - flu overview - sleep and pain - flu prevention - the role of a caregiver - how to quit for good - cold and flu smarts for kids - diet & energy - choosing bone density tests illustrations pain medications calculators & tools view all calculators & tools » we'd love to hear what you think of our site.
it can be used to lower a  fever and soothe headaches and other common aches and pains.
it  can, however, be harmful to the liver if you take more than the recommended  dose.
reye syndrome is  associated with the use of aspirin to treat children with viral infections,  such as chicken pox or the flu.
nsaids work by reducing the production of hormone-like substances that cause  pain.
patients should ask their doctor whether a cox-2 drug is appropriate and safe for them.
specific types of pain may respond better to one kind of  medication than to another kind.
sign in | register | help?
what takes away your pain might not work for someone else.
this medicine is easier on the stomach than other pain medications, and it is safer for children.
it can be used to lower a fever and soothe headaches and other common aches and pains.
however, acetaminophen does not reduce swelling (inflammation).
a pain specialist may be needed to help control long-term pain.
if you have high blood pressure, kidney disease, or a history of  gastrointestinal bleeding, you should talk to your health care provider before  using any over-the-counter nsaid.
you might ask your doctor about alternatives to pain medicines, which  include: heat
otc medicines include: - acetaminophen (tylenol) - nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (nsaids) acetaminophen is a non-aspirin pain reliever.