usually 5-10 minutes in a bath is enough time  for a child’s temperature to start dropping.
an increased body temperature is often a response to illness caused by a virus or bacteria, and except in the case of heat stroke fever itself is not the illness, only the symptom and a part of the body’s defence, and therefore does not necessarily signal a need for antibiotics.
the pediatrician would advise on the method of sponging, but it is  important not to use cold water, as this could cause shivering, and in turn,  increase the body temperature.
these signs will  help to identify the cause of the fever, which could range from a common cold  and/or ear infection, to poisoning, pneumonia, and heat stroke, and it is  therefore essential that the cause is identified as soon as possible.
generally, children over 6 months old who have a fever of less than  101°f/38.3°c do not need to be treated for fever, unless the child is  uncomfortable.
a fever is generally harmless and will help a child to fight infection.
a pediatrician should  be consulted before giving any medication to a child under 2 years of age.
it shows that the child’s immune system is working and the body is trying to rid itself of the infection.
(everyone’s  temperature tends to be lower early in the morning and higher between late  afternoon and early evening.)
however, there are situations where a pediatrician  should be consulted: if the child looks very ill and is unusually drowsy or  very fussy; if there are additional symptoms, such as a stiff neck, severe  headache, severe sore throat, severe ear pain, an unexplained rash, and  repeated vomiting or diarrhoea; if the child has been in an extremely hot  place, such as an overheated car; if the child has had a seizure; or if the  child has a condition that suppresses immune responses, or is taking steroids.
a pediatrician may recommend this if the child’s temperature  is above 104°f (40°c); if the child is vomiting and unable to take  medication; or if the child has had a febrile seizure in the past.
body temperature can vary with age,  activity/exertion level, clothing, and even the time of day.
if the child is upset by the  bath, or continues to shiver, it is better to end the sponging, even if there  has not been enough time spent in the water to reduce the temperature.
all rights reserved built & powered by wsi
these signs will help to identify the cause of the fever, which could range from a common cold and/or ear infection, to poisoning, pneumonia, and heat stroke, and it is therefore essential that the cause is identified as soon as possible.
an alternative way of reducing fever in children is through sponging with  lukewarm water, as the evaporating water on the skin can reduce the body  temperature.
generally, children over 6 months old who have a fever of less than 101°f/38.3°c do not need to be treated for fever, unless the child is uncomfortable.
aspirin should not be given to children under the age of 16 as use in children has been known to cause side effects such as an upset stomach, intestinal bleeding and, most seriously, reye syndrome.
to make the child more comfortable, try to keep the room cool, keep the child dressed in light clothing, encourage the consumption of fluids (water, diluted fruit juices, or commercially prepared oral electrolyte solutions), and ensure that there is no overexertion.
however, there are situations where a pediatrician should be consulted: if the child looks very ill and is unusually drowsy or very fussy; if there are additional symptoms, such as a stiff neck, severe headache, severe sore throat, severe ear pain, an unexplained rash, and repeated vomiting or diarrhoea; if the child has been in an extremely hot place, such as an overheated car; if the child has had a seizure; or if the child has a condition that suppresses immune responses, or is taking steroids.
if the child is vomiting and unable to take medication, then the pediatrician may recommend an acetaminophen suppository.
a fever is a body  temperature that is higher than normal, often shown by a thermometer reading of  over 100.4°f/38°c.
if the child is vomiting and unable to take medication, then the  pediatrician may recommend an acetaminophen suppository.
if the child is upset by the bath, or continues to shiver, it is better to end the sponging, even if there has not been enough time spent in the water to reduce the temperature.
the pediatrician would advise on the method of sponging, but it is important not to use cold water, as this could cause shivering, and in turn, increase the body temperature.
back to  pregnancy booklet site map | privacy policy | terms & conditions 2010 american hospital
when a child has a fever, the heart and breathing rates will naturally speed up, and the child will feel warmer to the touch.
it is  also important not to try and reduce the child’s temperature too quickly,  as this could also cause the temperature to rebound higher.
a fever is often identified by the child appearing flushed, perspiring, and  wanting more fluids than usual.
a pediatrician should be consulted before giving any medication to a child under 2 years of age.
aspirin should not be given to  children under the age of 16 as use in children has been known to cause side  effects such as an upset stomach, intestinal bleeding and, most seriously, reye  syndrome.
they will also often have symptoms of the illness that has caused the  fever, such as an earache, sore throat, rash, or stomach ache.
an alternative way of reducing fever in children is through sponging with lukewarm water, as the evaporating water on the skin can reduce the body temperature.
fever - friend or foe?
there are also medications which can reduce a fever: acetaminophen and ibuprofen are safe and effective in proper doses, although ibuprofen should only be used for children older than 6 months of age, and not given to children who are vomiting constantly or are dehydrated.
most of the time fever in a child is harmless and there does not require  the attention of a doctor.
when a child has a fever, remember that this is the body’s natural defense to fight off an infection, and this is healthy and normal, and should only cause concern if the child appears very sick, or if the fever persists for more than 24 hours (in children under than 2 years of age), at which point a pediatrician should be consulted.
when a child has a fever, remember that this is the body’s natural  defense to fight off an infection, and this is healthy and normal, and should  only cause concern if the child appears very sick, or if the fever persists for  more than 24 hours (in children under than 2 years of age), at which point a  pediatrician should be consulted.
a fever is often identified by the child appearing flushed, perspiring, and wanting more fluids than usual.
enter your email to receive information about our services  and a copy of our newsletter your email:* friend's email:* pregnancy booklet fever - friend or foe?
usually 5-10 minutes in a bath is enough time for a child’s temperature to start dropping.
it  shows that the child’s immune system is working and the body is trying to  rid itself of the infection.
fever itself is not the illness, only the symptom and a part of the  body’s defence, and therefore does not necessarily signal a need for  antibiotics.
they will also often have symptoms of the illness that has caused the fever, such as an earache, sore throat, rash, or stomach ache.
to make the child more comfortable, try to keep the room cool,  keep the child dressed in light clothing, encourage the consumption of fluids  (water, diluted fruit juices, or commercially prepared oral electrolyte  solutions), and ensure that there is no overexertion.
most of the time fever in a child is harmless and there does not require the attention of a doctor.
it is also important not to try and reduce the child’s temperature too quickly, as this could also cause the temperature to rebound higher.
an increased body temperature is often a response  to illness caused by a virus or bacteria, and except in the case of heat stroke
acetaminophen and  ibuprofen are safe and effective in proper doses, although ibuprofen should  only be used for children older than 6 months of age, and not given to children  who are vomiting constantly or are dehydrated.
a pediatrician may recommend this if the child’s temperature is above 104°f (40°c); if the child is vomiting and unable to take medication; or if the child has had a febrile seizure in the past.
when a child has a fever, the heart and  breathing rates will naturally speed up, and the child will feel warmer to the  touch.
there are also medications which can reduce a fever: