treating your child's fever will not help the body get rid of the  infection any quicker, it simply will relieve discomfort associated with fever.
remember that even if your child feels like he/she is “burning up," the actual rectal or oral temperature may not be that high.
when a child’s temperature reaches 105°, this is considered a  medical emergency and the child needs immediate medical attention, according to  the american academy of pediatrics.
the body responds to changes in temperature by: - increasing or decreasing sweat production.
- he/she may seem fussier, less hungry, and thirstier.
- your child may feel warm or hot.
when should a fever be treated?
children older than two months of age with a fever of 102° or  higher that does not respond to fever-reducing medication should be seen by a  physician.
do not give your child aspirin, as it has been linked to a serious, potentially fatal disease, called reye syndrome.
a fever actually helps the body destroy its microbial invader.
in children, a fever that is equal to or greater than 102.2° f should be treated.
what can i do to decrease my child's fever?
these cells actually "eat-up" the invading organism.
according to the american academy of pediatrics, if your child is younger than two months of age and has a rectal temperature of 100.4 degrees fahrenheit or higher, you should call your pediatrician.
a fever is a temperature of 100.4º f and higher.
the symptoms of a fever may resemble other medical conditions.
specific treatment for a fever will be determined by your physician based  on: aspirin and the risk of reye syndrome in children do not give aspirin to a child without first contacting the child's  physician.
children between the ages of 6 months and 5 years can develop  seizures from a high fever (called febrile seizures).
aspirin, when given as treatment for children, has been associated  with reye syndrome, a potentially serious or deadly disorder in children.
among the nation's best in patient care, medical education, and research.
click here to view the online resources of infectious diseases clinical services top of page © morgan stanley children's hospital of newyork-presbyterian - home | - disclaimer | - privacy notice | - site map | - rss feeds |
when this membrane is disrupted or broken, the contents that escape can be toxic to the body and stimulate the brain to raise the temperature.
- your child's age, overall health, and medical history - extent of the condition - your child's tolerance for specific medications, procedures, or therapies - expectations for the course of the disease - your opinion or preference administer an anti-fever medication, such as acetaminophen or ibuprofen.
- naturally wanting to seek a cooler or warmer environment.
if your child does have a febrile seizure, there is a chance that the seizure may occur again, but, usually, children outgrow the febrile seizures.
if your child is very uncomfortable with a lower fever, treatment may be  necessary.
call your child's physician immediately if your child is younger than 2  months old and any of the followings conditions are present: rectal temperature is greater than 100.4º your child is crying inconsolably your child is difficult to awaken your child's neck is stiff your child has a convulsion any purple spots are present on the skin breathing is difficult and no better after you clear the nose your child is unable to swallow anything and is drooling saliva your child looks or acts very sick (if possible, check your child's  appearance one hour after your child has taken an appropriate dose of  acetaminophen) call your child's physician within 24 hours if your child is 2 to 4 months  old and any of the following conditions are present: the fever is between 104º f and 105º f (especially if your child  is younger than 2 years old)
- give your child a lukewarm bath.
specific treatment for a fever will be determined by your physician based on: aspirin and the risk of reye syndrome in children do not give aspirin to a child without first contacting the child's physician.
the organs involved in helping with temperature regulation include the brain, skin, muscle, and blood vessels.
one hosptial affilitated with two ivy league medical schools: columbia university college of physicians & surgeons and weill medical college of cornell university.
it also  stimulates an inflammatory response, which sends all kinds of substances to the  area of infection to protect the area, prevent the spread of the invader, and  start the healing process.
do not use alcohol baths.
what conditions can cause a fever?
what are the symptoms that my child may have a fever?
- getting rid of, or holding on to, water in the body.
a febrile seizure does not mean your child has epilepsy.
in children, a fever that is equal to or greater than 102.2° f should  be treated.
the temperature increases for a number of reasons: - chemicals, called cytokines and mediators, are produced in the body in response to an invasion from a microorganism, malignancy, or other intruder.
the body has several ways to maintain normal body temperature.
according to  the american academy of pediatrics, if your child is younger than two months of  age and has a rectal temperature of 100.4 degrees fahrenheit or higher, you  should call your pediatrician.
place cold washcloths over areas of the body where the blood vessels are  close to the surface of the skin such as the forehead, wrists, and groins.
- find a physician - clinical services - health library - research & clinical trials - for patients, families & visitors - for health professionals - request an appointment online - careers - morgan stanley children's hospital of newyork-presbyterian - contact us - about us - supporting our efforts - home - complete health library - audio podcasts - quizzes and calculators ranked among the top 10 children's hospitals in the nation and #1 in new york byu.s.news & world report find a physician return to fevers
- moving blood away from, or closer to, the surface of the skin.
excess clothing will trap body heat and cause  the temperature to rise.
when your child has a fever, the body works the same way to control the temperature, but it resets its thermostat at a higher temperature.
- the body is busily trying to produce natural antibodies, which fight infection.
do  not give your child aspirin, as it has been linked to a serious, potentially  fatal disease, called reye syndrome.
it also stimulates an inflammatory response, which sends all kinds of substances to the area of infection to protect the area, prevent the spread of the invader, and start the healing process.
when should i call my child's physician?
burning or pain occurs with urination your child has had a fever for more than 24 hours without an obvious cause  or location of infection call your child's physician during office hours if any of the following  conditions are present: your child has had a fever more than 72 hours the fever went away for more than 24 hours and then returned your child has a history of febrile seizures you have other concerns or questions click here to view the online resources of infectious diseases bookmark
when a child’s temperature reaches 105°, this is considered a medical emergency and the child needs immediate medical attention, according to the american academy of pediatrics.
treating your child's fever will not help the body get rid of the infection any quicker, it simply will relieve discomfort associated with fever.
children between the ages of 6 months and 5 years can develop seizures from a high fever (called febrile seizures).
a febrile seizure does not mean  your child has epilepsy.
if you are unsure, always consult your child's  physician for a diagnosis.
if your child does have a  febrile seizure, there is a chance that the seizure may occur again, but,  usually, children outgrow the febrile seizures.
- many bacteria are enclosed in an overcoat-like membrane.
your child's age, overall health, and medical history extent of the condition your child's tolerance for specific medications, procedures, or therapies expectations for the course of the disease your opinion or preference administer an anti-fever medication, such as acetaminophen or ibuprofen.
remember that even if your child feels  like he/she is “burning up," the actual rectal or oral temperature  may not be that high.
other ways to reduce a fever: dress your child lightly.
children older than two months of age with a fever of 102° or higher that does not respond to fever-reducing medication should be seen by a physician.
overview more on fevers clinical services return to fevers overview more on fevers health information return to fevers overview more on fevers research and clinical trials return to fevers
overview more on fevers for patients, families & visitors return to fevers overview more on fevers professionals return to fevers overview more on fevers hospital news return to fevers overview more on fevers fevers fevers what is a fever?
if your child is very uncomfortable with a lower fever, treatment may be necessary.
however, each  child may experience symptoms differently.
the following conditions can cause a fever: - infectious diseases - certain medications - heat stroke - blood transfusion - disorders in the brain
excess clothing will trap body heat and cause the temperature to rise.
- encourage your child to drink plenty of fluids, such as juices, soda, punch, or popsicles.
- place cold washcloths over areas of the body where the blood vessels are close to the surface of the skin such as the forehead, wrists, and groins.
these antibodies will recognize the infection next time it tries to invade.
therefore, pediatricians and other healthcare providers recommend that aspirin (or any medication that contains aspirin) not be used to treat any viral illnesses in children.
children with fevers may become more uncomfortable as the temperature  rises.
disorders in the brain what are the benefits of a fever?
encourage your child to drink plenty of fluids, such as juices, soda,  punch, or popsicles.
if you are unsure, always consult your child's physician for a diagnosis.
in addition to body temperature greater than 100.4º f, symptoms may include: - your child may not be as active or talkative as usual.
in addition to body temperature  greater than 100.4º f, symptoms may include: your child may not be as active or talkative as usual.
the following are the most common symptoms of a fever.
however, each child may experience symptoms differently.
children with fevers may become more uncomfortable as the temperature rises.
your child may feel warm or hot.
what are the benefits of a fever?
he/she may seem fussier, less hungry, and thirstier.
other ways to reduce a fever: - dress your child lightly.
therefore, pediatricians and other healthcare providers recommend that aspirin  (or any medication that contains aspirin) not be used to treat any viral  illnesses in children.
give your child a lukewarm bath.
the body is making more macrophages, which are cells that go to combat when intruders are present in the body.
aspirin, when given as treatment for children, has been associated with reye syndrome, a potentially serious or deadly disorder in children.
call your child's physician immediately if your child is younger than 2 months old and any of the followings conditions are present: - rectal temperature is greater than 100.4º - your child is crying inconsolably - your child is difficult to awaken - your child's neck is stiff - your child has a convulsion - any purple spots are present on the skin - breathing is difficult and no better after you clear the nose - your child is unable to swallow anything and is drooling saliva - your child looks or acts very sick (if possible, check your child's appearance one hour after your child has taken an appropriate dose of acetaminophen) call your child's physician within 24 hours if your child is 2 to 4 months old and any of the following conditions are present: - the fever is between 104º f and 105º f (especially if your child is younger than 2 years old) - burning or pain occurs with urination - your child has had a fever for more than 24 hours without an obvious cause or location of infection call your child's physician during office hours if any of the following conditions are present: - your child has had a fever more than 72 hours - the fever went away for more than 24 hours and then returned - your child has a history of febrile seizures - you have other concerns or questions
- do not use alcohol baths.