it usually lasts for about 4-6 hours.
if you feel unwell or are concerned, call nhs direct on 0845 4647 or contact your gp.
the more common and significant interactions are listed below.
ibuprofen taken with tacrolimus increases the risk of kidney damage.
if you accidentally take an extra dose of ibuprofen -  omit the next dose so that you are not taking more than your recommended number  of tablets in 24 hours and then carry on as normal.
ibuprofen begins to ease pain and lower fever about 20-30 minutes after a dose is taken.
when two or more medicines are taken at the same time, the effects of the  medicines are sometimes different to when they are taken separately.
this can  result in increased side effects from digoxin.
what if you accidentally take an extra dose?
this will increase the risk of an ulcer or a serious bleed in the stomach or digestive tract.
digoxin ibuprofen may cause an increase in the blood levels of digoxin.
ibuprofen can cause an increase in blood pressure.
this can cause methotrexate levels to build up in the body and may result in methotrexate poisoning.
if you are taking low dose aspirin for its antiplatelet (blood  thinning) effect, ibuprofen may reduce the blood thinning effect of the aspirin.
is ibuprofen safe to take with other medicines?
ibuprofen can reduce the body's ability to remove methotrexate.
it blocks the production of chemicals called prostaglandins.
0845 4647search search ibuprofen can be used for: ibuprofen may be given to children from 3 months of age who weigh at least 5kg to relieve pain, inflammation and high temperature.
ibuprofen may also be given to children with rheumatic conditions, such as juvenile idiopathic arthritis.
sometimes, a doctor may advise paracetamol for a younger child.
this is known as an interaction.
ibuprofen can sometimes affect other medicines.
you should not take ibuprofen if you have: you should use ibuprofen with caution if you have: also, you should not take ibuprofen without first speaking to your doctor if you are taking any of the following medicines: ibuprofen may be taken during the 2nd trimester (weeks 14 - 27).
ssri antidepressants ssri antidepressants include citalopram, fluoxetine, paroxetine, and  sertraline.
ibuprofen should not be taken with other anti-inflammatory painkillers, such as aspirin, diclofenac, indometacin, naproxen, piroxicam.
this is usually reversible on stopping ibuprofen.
check the patient information leaflet that comes with your medicine as this should give you advice about what to do.
this is  usually reversible on stopping ibuprofen.
long term use of ibuprofen in females may cause reduced fertility.
lithium ibuprofen reduces the body's ability to remove lithium.
if you want to check that your  medicines are safe to take with ibuprofen, you should ask your doctor or  pharmacist (chemist) or read the patient information leaflet that comes with  your medicine.
it appears in breast milk in very small amounts which are unlikely to cause harm to your baby.
they cause pain and inflammation (swelling).
if you forget to take your dose of ibuprofen, the general advice is: if the dose is less than 2 hours late - take the dose as soon as you remember and then take the next dose as normal.
ibuprofen may increase the anticoagulant (blood clotting) effect of warfarin  which could result in bruising or more serious bleeding, such as blood in the  urine or stools.
this will  increase the risk of an ulcer or a serious bleed in the stomach or digestive  tract.
however, some people  may sometimes feel dizzy when taking ibuprofen and you should not drive if you  experience this.
taking ibuprofen may  reduce the benefits of taking medicines to lower blood pressure.
an injection of ibuprofen may be given to premature babies to treat a patent ductus arteriosus (when a blood vessel in the heart does not close normally after birth).
ibuprofen is unlikely to affect your ability to drive.
however, heavy alcohol drinkers who take ibuprofen have an increased risk of bleeding in the stomach.
this can cause lithium levels to build up in the body and may result in lithium poisoning.
the more common and  significant interactions are listed below.
if you forget to take your dose of ibuprofen, the general advice is: if the dose is less than 2 hours late - take the dose as  soon as you remember and then take the next dose as normal.
check the patient information leaflet that comes with your medicine as this  should give you advice about what to do.
there is a small increase in the risk of stroke or myocardial infarction  (heart attack) when ibuprofen is taken at high doses over long periods of time.
ibuprofen reduces the body's ability to remove lithium.
however, this is not a complete list.
ibuprofen is from a group of medicines called non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (nsaids).
pains in the abdomen (stomach/intestines).
if you accidentally take an extra dose of ibuprofen - omit the next dose so that you are not taking more than your recommended number of tablets in 24 hours and then carry on as normal.
this is  known as an interaction.
if the dose is more than 2 hours late - skip the missed dose, wait until the next dose is due, and then continue as normal.
if you are taking low dose aspirin for its antiplatelet (blood thinning) effect, ibuprofen may reduce the blood thinning effect of the aspirin.
call nhs direct on 0845 4647, contact your gp or go to yournearest accident and emergency department (a&e)
however, heavy  alcohol drinkers who take ibuprofen have an increased risk of bleeding in the  stomach.
this can result in increased side effects from digoxin.
ibuprofen increases the risk of bleeding in people taking ssri antidepressants.
ibuprofen may increase the anticoagulant (blood clotting) effect of warfarin which could result in bruising or more serious bleeding, such as blood in the urine or stools.
warfarin is an anticoagulant medicine that stops the blood from clotting.
what if you forget to take a dose?
call nhs direct on 0845 4647,  contact your gp or go to yournearest accident and emergency department (a&e) more from nhs direct
there are no known interactions with food.
as with any medicine in pregnancy, it should be taken at the lowest effective dose for the shortest possible time.
however, it is best to take ibuprofen with or after food to reduce any irritation to the stomach.
if the dose is more than 2 hours late - skip the missed  dose, wait until the next dose is due, and then continue as normal.
for the anti-inflammatory effect, ibuprofen should be taken regularly and it may take up to 2-3 weeks to get the best results.
anti-inflammatory painkillers and aspirin ibuprofen should not be taken with other anti-inflammatory painkillers,  such as aspirin, diclofenac, indometacin, naproxen, piroxicam.
common side effects include: less common side effects include: there is a small increase in the risk of stroke or myocardial infarction (heart attack) when ibuprofen is taken at high doses over long periods of time.
less common side effects include: allergic reactions (such as a rash), dizziness, duodenal or gastric ulcers (ulcer in the digestive tract), fluid retention, gastritis (inflammation of the stomach), haematemesis (vomiting blood, which may indicate there is bleeding in the  stomach), malaena (black stools, which may indicate that there is bleeding in the  stomach or digestive tract), raised blood pressure, and worsening of asthma by causing bronchospasm (narrowing of the airways).
however, it is best to take  ibuprofen with or after food to reduce any irritation to the stomach.
are there any interactions with food?
tacrolimus ibuprofen taken with tacrolimus increases the risk of kidney damage.
however, some people may sometimes feel dizzy when taking ibuprofen and you should not drive if you experience this.
ibuprofen may be advised for babies 2-3 months old to control a high temperature following childhood immunisations if paracetamol is unsuitable.
ssri antidepressants include citalopram, fluoxetine, paroxetine, and sertraline.
these also apply to ibuprofen products applied onto the skin, such as gels, sprays and mousses.
these are released in your body in response to illness and injury.
does ibuprofen affect your ability to drive?
if you want to check that your medicines are safe to take with ibuprofen, you should ask your doctor or pharmacist (chemist) or read the patient information leaflet that comes with your medicine.
methotrexate ibuprofen can reduce the body's ability to remove methotrexate.
can you drink alcohol?
ibuprofen may be taken with small amounts of alcohol.
however, you should avoid taking ibuprofen during the 1st or 3rd trimesters unless advised to by your doctor.
ibuprofen may cause an increase in the blood levels of digoxin.
warfarin warfarin is an anticoagulant medicine that stops the blood from clotting.
this can cause  lithium levels to build up in the body and may result in lithium poisoning.
prostaglandins released in your brain can cause high temperature (fever).
ibuprofen increases the risk of bleeding in people taking ssri  antidepressants.
ibuprofen may be taken if you are breastfeeding.
when two or more medicines are taken at the same time, the effects of the medicines are sometimes different to when they are taken separately.
if you have taken more than the recommended total daily dose of ibuprofen - seek advice immediately.
this can  cause methotrexate levels to build up in the body and may result in  methotrexate poisoning.
if you feel unwell or are  concerned, call nhs direct on 0845 4647 or contact your gp.
as with any medicine when breastfeeding, it should be taken at the lowest effective dose for the shortest possible time.
taking ibuprofen may reduce the benefits of taking medicines to lower blood pressure.
if you have taken more than the recommended total daily dose of  ibuprofen - seek advice immediately.
medicines for high blood pressure ibuprofen can cause an increase in blood pressure.
these also apply to ibuprofen  products applied onto the skin, such as gels, sprays and mousses.
for health advice and reassurance, 24 hours a day, 365 days a year.