although the point of the knife is blunt, you can gently slice a tomato with ease.
about the company and related resources zx kitchen black ceramic knives photo © zx kitchen zx kitchen™ manufactures three sizes of black ceramic kitchen knives, as well as a handy cutting board.
these knives are well balanced and allow precise
and they are anything but typical ceramic.
first because ceramic knives need ultimate care and that includes proper storage.
the  ceramic blades are black, so you don't need to worry about discoloration and  that also makes them stand out from the average ceramic knife.
a well-designed ceramic knife with a comfortable handle is easy to control.
knives were always used with either a wooden or plastic cutting board.
first because ceramic knives need ultimate  care and that includes proper storage.
these were the hardest foods and during slicing you could hear the blade against the cutting board.
overall impression ceramic knives are very different than steel knives in handling as well as function and they should be used only for slicing fruits, vegetables and boneless meats.
i like the feel,  look, material construction, design and sharpness of these knives.
i point out this special care for two reasons.
their knives are available in choice of five boxed sets.
learn more from the manufacturer; read ceramic knife care information how the zx kitchen ceramic knives performed zx kitchen black ceramic knives photo © zx kitchen january  6, 2012 at first glance, the workmanship of these knives is quite evident
user reviews write a review be the first to write a review more about kitchen knives - safe & convenient kitchen knife storage - super slicing with a santoku knife - selecting your first kitchen knives - chef's choice angleselect 4623 knife sharpener review - before you buy kitchen knives - kitchen knife buying tips more about kitchen cutlery &
the drop in rating is mainly due to the possible durability issue.
go to main cutlery & knives page go to home page
these knives cannot be sharpened with typical knife sharpening tools; they must be sharpened by the manufacturer.
although the point of the knife is blunt, you can gently slice a  tomato with ease.
tools related articles - henckels knife blocks - safe & handy storage - just handle it! -
at first glance, the workmanship of these knives is quite evident and they are anything but typical ceramic.
the ceramic blades are black, so you don't need to worry about discoloration and that also makes them stand out from the average ceramic knife.
this was most unfortunate and very disappointing.
we hope to make zx kitchen the next revolution in food preparation.
a well-designed ceramic knife with a comfortable  handle is easy to control.
zx kitchen™ has sold thousands of  knives since we launched the company in 2011, and we have received overwhelming
sharper than traditional steel  cutlery, our ceramic knives slice flawlessly for five years with no need for  re-sharpening.
the zx kitchen™ ceramic knives tested offer the  consumer very comfortable, lightweight and razor-sharp knives for slicing  fruits, vegetables and boneless meats at comparable prices.
it slices  through tomatoes with incredible ease and we were able to get extremely thin  slices with no effort.
by zx kitchen ceo george marks my thoughts: i was very glad to receive the above response from the  manufacturer.
steel kitchen knives vs  ceramic knives - understanding the differences compare prices of ceramic  knives compare prices of knives
by nature, ceramic knives are stronger  than steel, but are more brittle and can break.
they were also handwashed and dried - something i recommend with any sharp  knife, and immediately returned to their storage box.
they also require much more care than steel knives in terms of use or storage and you cannot sharpen a ceramic knife, unless the sharpener is specifically designed for use with this type of knife.
a part of the new york times company.
they were not used near bone or with frozen foods, nor were they dropped.
praise for the quality and durability of our products.
they were not used near bone or with frozen foods, nor were they  dropped.
they also require much more care than  steel knives in terms of use or storage and you cannot sharpen a ceramic knife,  unless the sharpener is specifically designed for use with this type of knife.
was it user error, an (isolated) defect in this particular knife or a lack of knowledge, that caused the utility knife to chip during testing.
because they are ceramic, in the rare occasion that one of our products does not live up to the standards of our customers or accidentally chips due to normal wear and tear, we will always send a replacement or offer a full refund."
these were the hardest foods and during slicing you could hear the  blade against the cutting board.
in order to help  consumers make the right knife buying choices, i will add any updates or  comments to this review.
we found the zx ceramic 5" utility knife most useful for slicing ham and boneless meats and cutting vegetables for salads.
about the company and related resources zx kitchen black ceramic knives photo © zx kitchen zx  kitchen™ manufactures three sizes of black ceramic kitchen knives, as  well as a handy cutting board.
by lack of knowledge, i mean these knives are supposed to be  able to slice vegetables, but is that limited to soft vegetables only?
sign up - housewares / appliances - appliances - house essentials - cooling & heating discuss in my forum zx kitchen black ceramic knives precision set review home test of zx kitchen ceramic knives about.com rating 4 star rating
they were also handwashed and dried - something i recommend with any sharp knife, and immediately returned to their storage box.
the small paring knife peels an apple as easily as using a  peeler and coring apple quarters requires little effort.
by zx kitchen ceo george marks my thoughts: i was very glad to receive the above response from the manufacturer.
zx does offer a lifetime  warranty on their knives.
the best of care was given to these zx ceramic knives and that is crucial with any ceramic brand.
confirmation of usage will be requested from the manufacturer and comments posted.
whatever the cause, it remains a mystery.
i'd also love to see other consumer reviews on these zx knives; a short review can be added to this page.
by lack of knowledge, i mean these knives are supposed to be able to slice vegetables, but is that limited to soft vegetables only?
- privacy policy - your ad choices ©2012 about.com.
ceramic knives would never replace your regular steelkitchen knives, but rather enhance your knife selection, providing options for the slicing or cutting task at hand.
in all fairness to this brand and without knowing the exact cause of the chip, i gave this review a moderate rating.
the knives are really beautiful to look at, lightweight and very comfortable with soft-feel nonslip handles.
confirmation of usage  will be requested from the manufacturer and comments posted.
the small paring knife peels an apple as easily as using a peeler and coring apple quarters requires little effort.
secondly because even with this  kind of care, the utility knife sustained a small chip about 1.25" from  the point end, during this test.
this precision set (boxed) includes very practical kitchen knives: a 3-1/2" paring knife and 5" utility knife.
the zx knives also have a safety feature, the shape  of the handle keeps your fingers away from the blade and the point of the blade  is blunt.
be the first to write a review by mariette mifflin, about.com guide see more about: - cutlery - knives - kitchenware - chef's tools - cutting boards zx kitchen black ceramic knives photo © zx kitchen more images (2)
zx kitchen™ has sold thousands of knives since we launched the company in 2011, and we have received overwhelming praise for the quality and durability of our products.
it slices through tomatoes with incredible ease and we were able to get extremely thin slices with no effort.
we hope to make zx  kitchen the next revolution in food preparation.
i point out  this special care for two reasons.
there could also have been a little grit on  the unpeeled potatoes and maybe this caused the ceramic to chip.
for more information, please see our ethics policy.
overall impression ceramic knives are very different than steel  knives in handling as well as function and they should be used only for slicing  fruits, vegetables and boneless meats.
the knife handles are warm and the soft feel and shape of these knives make it very easy to control when cutting or slicing.
update - response received from zx kitchen knives: “we so appreciate mariette’s review of zx kitchen’s black ceramic knives.
if this were the case, it would reduce usage somewhat.
- how to use a kitchen knife - lessons about using a knife - kitchen safety k... - kitchen cutlery buying guide – guide to buying knives and cutlery for... - saber knives - saber knives high-quality german steel knives reviews - kitchen cutlery buying guide – guide to buying knives and cutlery for... - laguiole cheese knives mariette mifflin housewares / appliances guide - sign up for my newsletter related searches ceramic cutlery ceramic knives cutlery tools rust proof steel knives kitchen trade explore housewares / appliances must reads most popular - valentine's day 2012 tips & gifts - the best appliance
the zx kitchen™ ceramic knives tested offer the consumer very comfortable, lightweight and razor-sharp knives for slicing fruits, vegetables and boneless meats at comparable prices.
zx kitchen obviously stands by its products.
every time - save energy;
was it user error, an (isolated) defect in this  particular knife or a lack of knowledge, that caused the utility knife to chip  during testing.
not noticed immediately, we assumed it might have happened when we sliced through hard raw potatoes, turnips or carrots.
if this  were the case, it would reduce usage somewhat.
sharper than traditional steel cutlery, our ceramic knives slice flawlessly for five years with no need for re-sharpening.
these knives cannot be sharpened with typical knife sharpening tools;  they must be sharpened by the manufacturer.
by category - cutlery - knives - kitchenware - chef's tools - cutting boards - large appliances - small appliances - air, water & recycling - brands, mfrs & retailers - canning & home preserving - consumer awareness - cookware - cooling & heating - gifts & hosting - glossary - essential home products - kitchen & tableware - laundry & fabric care - store, clean & organize - vacuum & floor care housewares / appliances - about.com - home & garden - housewares / appliances - kitchen & tableware - cutlery & knives - knife reviews - zx kitchen ceramic knives review - most popular - latest articles - rss - advertise on about.com - our story - news & events - work at about - sitemap - all topics - reprints - help - write for about - user agreement - ethics policy - patent info.
not noticed immediately, we assumed  it might have happened when we sliced through hard raw potatoes, turnips or  carrots.
update - response received from zx  kitchen knives: “we so appreciate mariette’s review of zx  kitchen’s black ceramic knives.
i'd also love to see other consumer reviews on these  zx knives; a short review can be added to this page.
ceramic knives are a different breed of knife altogether and one that professional chefs love for the long-lasting sharpness and superior cutting abilities.
- about.com - home & garden - housewares / appliances housewares / appliances search free housewares / appliances newsletter!
because they are ceramic, in the rare occasion  that one of our products does not live up to the standards of our customers or  accidentally chips due to normal wear and tear, we will always send a  replacement or offer a full refund."
what is a ceramic knife?
ceramic knives would never replace your regular steelkitchen knives, but rather  enhance your knife selection, providing options for the slicing or cutting task  at hand.
this  precision set (boxed) includes very practical kitchen knives: a 3-1/2"  paring knife and 5" utility knife.
their knives are available in choice of five  boxed sets.
here's my dilemma in rating this review.
secondly because even with this kind of care, the utility knife sustained a small chip about 1.25" from the point end, during this test.
the knives are really beautiful to  look at, lightweight and very comfortable with soft-feel nonslip handles.
we were eager to take zx kitchen™ knives for a test, to see how handy these ceramic cutlery tools would be in an average kitchen.
we found the zx ceramic 5" utility knife most useful  for slicing ham and boneless meats and cutting vegetables for salads.
in all fairness to this brand  and without knowing the exact cause of the chip, i gave this review a moderate  rating.
splurge or save on flatware?
i like the feel, look, material construction, design and sharpness of these knives.
in order to help consumers make the right knife buying choices, i will add any updates or comments to this review.
the knife handles are warm and the soft  feel and shape of these knives make it very easy to control when cutting or  slicing.
whatever the  cause, it remains a mystery.
there could also have been a little grit on the unpeeled potatoes and maybe this caused the ceramic to chip.
the zx knives also have a safety feature, the shape of the handle keeps your fingers away from the blade and the point of the blade is blunt.
zx does offer a lifetime warranty on their knives.
a look at kitchen knife handles - granton edge - definition of a knife's granton edge - reviews of kitchen cutlery knives - knife steel - what's a knife steel?
the drop in  rating is mainly due to the possible durability issue.
we would love for mariette to try our steak knives, as slicing  meats has never been easier.
review samples were provided by the manufacturer.
steel kitchen knives vs ceramic knives - understanding the differences compare prices of ceramic knives compare prices of knives kitchen knife buying tips what's a knife bevel?
here's my  dilemma in rating this review.
see more about: - type of humidifier - before you buy a humidifier - top-loading washing machine vs. front-loading: which is bett… - super simple smoothie recipe - caring for your he washer
we would love for mariette to try our steak knives, as slicing meats has never been easier.
product despcription zx kitchen black ceramic knives precision set (boxed) - set includes 5" utility knife; 3-1/2" paring knife - made from zirconium oxide - blades are sharper than steel; superior sharpness for 5 years without sharpening - stain resistant black ceramic - lightweight, easy to handle - rust-proof; no discoloration; no metallic taste - easy to clean - sleek design - comfort grip - safety handle - lifetime warranty - learn more from the manufacturer; read ceramic knife care information how the zx kitchen ceramic knives performed zx kitchen black ceramic knives photo © zx kitchen january 6,
these knives are well balanced and allow precise cutting.
if you're new to ceramic, the lighter weight is very noticeable  compared to steel knives and one might think it would be difficult to control  such a knife, but not so.
the best of  care was given to these zx ceramic knives and that is crucial with any ceramic  brand.
save money - how to set the table - humidifiers - faq's
and we used the zx knives for fruits, vegetables, processed or boneless meats.
if you're new to ceramic, the lighter weight is very noticeable compared to steel knives and one might think it would be difficult to control such a knife, but not so.
by nature, ceramic knives are stronger than steel, but are more brittle and can break.