did you know that maple cutting boards naturally kill  bacteria?
knife guide gives you correct angles.
the hand cut crystals are truly amazing.
we make these in the usa !
the  ultra sharp ceramic blade cuts with precision and accuracy every time  maintaining a razor-sharp edge for many years.
legal notice and copyright customer service - e-mail us or phone:(630) 739-5200 customer feedback
limited time offer, then they are gone!
riveted| kyotop| revolution| sets| peelers & tools| scissors product # cdfk110wh+cp09rd-kyocera-2pcset-red retail $69.95 and up temporary sale price reduction $30.95 this is the new red handles 4.5 in.
8 piece orange kyocera knife set with casequantity: click here for giant bbq cutting boards!
these hold an edge for years, without sharpening.
we guarantee you will love it!
the ultra sharp ceramic blade  cuts with precision and accuracy every time maintaining a razor-sharp edge for  many years.
these hold an edge for years,  without sharpening.
we tested several brands of ceramic knives -
ceramics  are perfect for slicing, dicing, chopping and mincing meats, garlic, carrots,  onions, celery, fruits and more quantity: click here ~ large stainless  steel mixing bowls!
up to a $30.00 value!
this is the new pink polka dots garnishing tool case!
riveted| kyotop| revolution| sets| peelers & tools| scissorsriveted| kyotop| revolution| sets| peelers & tools| scissors this is the new red handles 4.5 in.
each ceramic knife features a cool eco green handle, that holds an edge without sharpening.
chef notes: we quickly put a brand new edge on a heavily used ceramic knife.
kyocera revolution ceramic utility knife and a 3 in.
quantity: click here for
product # cdkyoceraknifeset-rev-2pc-blue retail $100.95 and up temporary sale price reduction $69.95
ceramics are perfect for slicing,  dicing, chopping and mincing meats, garlic, carrots, onions, celery, fruits and  more.
free bamboo cutting board
the kyotop series  feature black ceramic blades that are double fired in a vacuum creating the  hardest cutting edge known to man.
each one of our revolution knives comes in a  beautiful presentation box.
these knives are made of an advanced, high-tech ceramic, second in hardness  only to diamond, it was originally developed for industrial applications  where metal components failed.
ceramic knives  are a great choice for chefs and gourmet cooks!
the revolution  series feature a colorful handles and perfect balance.
kyocera was the only knife  sharp enough to meet our demands, the others were too dull or the blades were  too thin and brittle.
click the button below to add these to your shopping cart!
this is our exclusive 2 piece kyocera revolution knife set, it includes a 5.5 in.
the rubber sleeve assures an airtight seal.
chef  notes: we tested several brands of ceramic knives - here's the results!
these hold an edge without sharpening.
paring knife each with a tomato red
product # cd2012-kyocera-revolution-orange-chefset-case-8pc $134.95
the ultra sharp ceramic blade cuts with precision and  accuracy every time maintaining a razor-sharp edge for many years.
this is our exclusive 3 piece kyocera knife set, it includes a 5.5 in.
this is a great ceramic knife, it's very comfortable and easy  to use.
features a small metal bee on one end.
our ceramic knives and tools are hot!
this new design is way cool.
kyocera revolution ceramic santoku knife, 4.5 in.
click on bees for more laguiole openers!quantity: our new handmade exotic cocobolo wood wine stoppers are topped with swarovski black and clear crystals to make a truly elegant wine stopper.
kyocera revolution ceramic utility knife with orange handles, these hold an  edge without sharpening.
it now cuts vegetables and fruits with little effort.
kyocera revolution ceramic utility knife and 3 in.
these bottle stops will add style to your wine service.
product # cdra02-grv-boos20x15w/groove list price $139.00  and up on sale $99.95 our new 20 x 15 x 2.25 in.
product # cdfk140wh-wh+cp10nset-kyocera-exclusive-revolution-white retail $89.95 and up temporary sale price reduction $49.95 this is the new 5.5 in.
chef notes: makes a perfect  gift!
paring knife, peeler and hardwood in drawer storage holder.
this is a great ceramic knife, it's very  comfortable and easy to use.
for non contact surface temperatures, 1-second response, maximum, minimum and lock for continuous scanning.
the  revolution series feature an extra hefty black handle and a perfect balance. .
product # cd2012-kyocera-revolution-green-chefset-case-8pc $134.95
limited time  offer, then they are gone!
kyocera  revolution ceramic utility knife!
this reversible board (flat on other side) is nsf certified and will not dull your knife!
the ultra  sharp ceramic blades cuts with precision and accuracy every time maintaining a  razor-sharp edge for many years.
product # cd2012-kyocera-revolution-red-chefset-case-8pc $134.95
the new green knife case is made to hold 8 to 12+ pieces of cutlery and garnishing tools.
ceramics are perfect for slicing, dicing, chopping and mincing meats, garlic, carrots, onions, celery, fruits and more ******** receive a free red high quality pot holder / trivet with any $50.00 kyocera purchase ($50.00 or more)!
the weight is about half of steel knives making it comfortable for extended use.
each one of our  kyotop knives comes in a beautiful presentation box.
the kyotop series feature black ceramic blades  that are double fired in a vacuum creating the hardest cutting edge known to  man.
paring knife gift set.
chef notes: these knives are a  great choice for chefs and gourmet cooks!a rainbow of colored handles are  now available, exclusively at chef depot.
this is a great ceramic knife set,  very comfortable and easy to use.
3" long, 7/8" diameter (the same as the one pictured above).
on sale $249.95 john boos newest hard maple octagonal block features reversible rock maple.
free bottle of vanilla extract quantity: retail $99.99 and up temporary sale price reduction $58.44 this is the new 5 1/2 in.
we also gift box every piece of kyocera cutlery!
the ultra sharp ceramic blades cuts with precision and accuracy every time maintaining a razor-sharp edge for many years.
this is our exclusive 8 piece kyocera revolution knife set, it includes a 5.5 in.
the  weight is about half of steel knives making it comfortable for extended use.
made in japan, it's very comfortable and easy to use.
you must add to cart to get the free silicone pot holder & trivet.
each ceramic knife features a cool blue handle, that holds an edge without sharpening.
with proper care, this maple board can last for life!
8 pocket green casequantity: the new pink knife case is made to hold 8 to 12 + pieces of cutlery and garnishing tools.
call us for the best price !
the new plaid & houndstooth knife case is made to hold 8 to 12 + pieces of cutlery and garnishing tools.
5 piece red kyocera knife set with in drawer organizerquantity: this is our exclusive 5 piece kyocera revolution knife set, it includes a 5.5 in.
chefs note: this great case has hot pink and white polka dots and it's made to last!wonderful vanilla paste!
chefs note: add to  your cart!
these all hold an edge without sharpening.
these knives are made of an advanced, high-tech ceramic, second in  hardness only to diamond, it was originally developed for industrial  applications where metal components failed.
yellow spatulaquantity: copyright 1999 - 2012 chef depot inc. all rights reserved.
click here for sushi nori!
distance:spot = 1:1, data-hold, one-button operation, battery status indication, food-safe abs plastic, auto-off, pouch, rope mount, battery; 3v button iec cr2032 long life lithium.
paring knife each with blue handles, it holds an edge without sharpening.
these amazing knives  hold an edge without sharpening.
best imersion blenders for puree soups and smooth sauces!
picked bourbon vanilla beans!
the revolution series feature an ergo handle and a perfect  balance.
click here for garnishing tools!
these knives  are a great choice for chefs and gourmet cooks!
kyocera revolution ceramic utility knife!
product # cdkyoceraknifeset-rev-2pc-orange retail $100.95 and up temporary sale price reduction $69.95 this is our exclusive 2 piece kyocera revolution knife set, it  includes a 5.5 in.
each ceramic knife features a  cool blue handle, that holds an edge without sharpening.
paring knife each with a tomato red handle, it holds an edge without sharpening.
kyocera revolution ceramic santoku knife, a 4.5 in.
chefs note: this great case has a nice forest green color and it's made to last!
only kyocera  scored very high in sharpness, quality, workmanship, material and warranty.
the crystal looks like a large multi facet cut diamond.
if you like great chocolate, click strawberries!
oiling it with mystery oil, will keep it looking new for many years of use!
features: instrument range: - 67 to + 428 degrees f/-55 to +220 degrees c., shatterproof, + - 1.degree f / 0.6 degree c accuracy.
kyocera was the only knife sharp enough to meet our demands, the  others were too dull or the blades were too thin and brittle.
only kyocera scored very high in sharpness, quality, workmanship, material and warranty.
this is our exclusive 2 piece kyocera revolution knife set, it  includes a 5.5 in.
this is a great ceramic knife set, very comfortable and easy to  use.
product # cd2013-kyocera-revolution-blue-chefset-in-drawer-5pc $128.95 this is our exclusive 5 piece kyocera revolution knife set, it  includes a 5.5 in.
receive a free high heat colored spatula and free shipping with purchase of $99.00 or more of kyocera products!
what are  you waiting for?
the weight is about half of steel  knives making it comfortable for extended use.
in under 1 minute, you can restore that factory sharp edge on any ceramic blade.
chef notes: fast and simple to use.
receive our exclusive john boos mystery oil for free with any john  boos cuttingboard purchase (see free offer below, you must add to cart).
did you know that maple cutting boards naturally kill bacteria?
our vanilla extract is made from sun ripened hand
only operates when on switch is pressed.
each one of our kyocera knives comes in a beautiful gift box.
what  are you waiting for?
product # cd2012-kyocera-revolution-blue-chefset-case-8pc $134.95
on sale for a limited time.
works great as a spoon rest when making a batch of red sauce.
these knives are made of an advanced, high-tech ceramic, second in hardness only to diamond, it was originally developed for industrial applications where metal components failed.
the kyotop series feature black ceramic blades that are double fired in a vacuum creating the hardest cutting edge known to man.
click here for our exclusive lazy susan butcher blocks!
this case is very attractive with double sewn reinforced edges and handle, extra strong elastic knife supports.
this is a great ceramic knife set, very comfortable and easy  to use.
the steel cork uses an expanding "o" ring to seal wine & champagne bottles.
this is the new paisley garnishing tool case!
paring knife with green
click here for german garnishing tools!
these knives holds an edge without sharpening.
we love the comfortable ribbed texture and the bright red color!
up to a $20.00 value!
chef notes: what a great gift idea!
product # cdboos-ocb-18p-octagonal-block-wpan
paring knife, peeler and knife guards to match with medium storage case.
these  knives are made of an advanced, high-tech ceramic, second in hardness only to  diamond, it was originally developed for industrial applications where  metal components failed.
ceramics  are perfect for slicing, dicing, chopping and mincing meats, garlic, carrots,  onions, celery, fruits and more quantity: click here small or large  walnut, maple and cherry cutting boards!
ceramics are  perfect for slicing, dicing, chopping and mincing meats, garlic, carrots,  onions, celery, fruits and more!
place your order today, limited time  offer!
our premium professional chef aprons are lots of fun!
chefs note: these will help you stay organized and protect your investment.
kyocera revolution ceramic utility knife, with yellow handle, it holds an edge  without sharpening.
receive our exclusive john boos mystery oil for free with any john boos cuttingboard purchase (see free offer below, you must add to cart).
john boos custom makes these exclusive cutting boards for us from first quality solid rock maple, 20 inches by 15 inches and 2.25 inches thick.
kyocera was the only knife sharp enough to meet our demands, the others were  too dull or the blades were too thin and brittle.
it will protect from intense heat, up to 495 f. non slip, waterproof and non porous, they provide safety and perfect food hygiene.
the ultra sharp ceramic blade cuts  with precision and accuracy every time maintaining a razor-sharp edge for many  years.
kyocera was the only knife sharp enough to meet our  demands, the others were too dull or the blades were too thin and brittle.
the ultra sharp ceramic  blade cuts with precision and accuracy every time maintaining a razor-sharp  edge for many years.
ceramics are perfect for slicing, dicing, chopping.
each one features  the kyotop damascus paring knife with 3" blade, utility knife with  4.5" blade, slicing knife with 5" blade, chef's knife with 5.5"  blade.
~ fat juicy  vanilla beans!
this is the new plaid houndstooth garnishing tool case!
our new infrared laser thermometer is a great value.
this is a great ceramic knife set, very  comfortable and easy to use.
these will help you stay organized and protect your investment.
this is a great ceramic knife set, it's  very comfortable and easy to use.
product # cdkyoceraknifeset-kc-3pc retail $280.00 and up sale  price $178.95 this is our exclusive 3 piece kyocera knife set, it includes a 5.5 in.
the revolution series feature an extra hefty black handle  and a perfect balance.
kyocera revolution ceramic  utility knife & ceramic peeler gift set.
each one of our kyocera  knives comes in a beautiful gift box.
chef notes: this set is a great deal!
the ultra sharp ceramic blade cuts with precision and accuracy every time maintaining a razor-sharp edge for many years.
ceramics are totally non reactive  with food!
kyocera revolution ceramic utility knife, with green handle, it holds an edge without sharpening.
kyocera revolution ceramic santoku knife, with pure white handle, and matching white ceramic peeler, these hold an edge without sharpening.
only  kyocera scored very high in sharpness, quality, workmanship, material and  warranty.
product # cdkt-hipkyoceraknifeset3pc retail $485.00 and up sale  price $335.95
click here for giant chefs cutting  boards!
ceramics are totally non reactive with food!
each one of our kyotop knives comes in a beautiful presentation box.
what are you  waiting for?
a rainbow of colored handles are now available, exclusively at chef depot.
the ultra sharp ceramic blades cut with precision and accuracy every time maintaining a razor-sharp edge for many years.
with proper  care, this maple board can last for life!
the ultra sharp ceramic blade cuts with  precision and accuracy every time maintaining a razor-sharp edge for many  years.
kyocera  revolution ceramic utility knife and a 3 in.
paring knife, peeler and  hardwood in drawer storage holder.
long, unbreakable imitation black horn handle, stainless steel bolsters, micro-serrated blade, cap opener!
ceramics are perfect for slicing, dicing, chopping and mincing meats, garlic, carrots, onions, celery, fruits and more this is our exclusive 3 piece kyocera revolution knife set, it includes a 5.5 in.
chef notes: these knives are a great choice for chefs and gourmet cooks!a rainbow of colored handles are now available, exclusively at chef depot.
these openers not only make a perfect gift for any wine lover but a great conversation piece!
this is a great ceramic knife, it's very comfortable and  easy to use.
the revolution series feature a colorful handles and perfect balance.
this is our exclusive 2 piece kyocera revolution knife set, it includes  a 5.5 in.
free gift offer below!
john boos  custom makes these exclusive cutting boards for us from first quality solid  rock maple, 20 inches by 15 inches and 2.25 inches thick.
each ceramic knife features a cool tomato  red handle, that holds an edge without sharpening.
kyocera revolution ceramic utility knife, with yellow handle, it holds an edge without sharpening.
we use several of these for different sets of garnishing tools.
only kyocera scored very high in sharpness, quality,  workmanship, material and warranty.
links kyocera makes high quality ceramic knives!
click here for sushi making  kits!
product # cdkyoceraknifeset-rev-3pc-orange retail $140.95 and up temporary sale price reduction $89.95
the ultra sharp ceramic blade cuts with precision and accuracy every time  maintaining a razor-sharp edge for many years.
chef notes: these knives are a  great choice for chefs and gourmet cooks!
santoku knife, utility knife and paring knife.
product # cdkyoceraknifeset-rev-2pc-red retail $100.95 and up temporary sale price reduction $69.95
the revolution series feature an ergo handle and a perfect balance.
we tested several brands of ceramic knives - here's the results!
apronquantity: this is the new black blade 5 1/2 in.
the revolution series feature a  colorful handle and a perfect balance.
this is the cutting board of choice for all the chefs here at chef depot and many other famous chefs!
features one hole to allow hanging on the wall or oven or refrigerator when not  in use.
ceramics are perfect for slicing, dicing, chopping and mincing meats, garlic, carrots, onions, celery, fruits and more.
this is our new exclusive ceramic knife sharpener!
what are you waiting for?
kyocera revolution ceramic utility knife, with tomato red handle, it holds an  edge without sharpening.
these knives are a great choice for chefs  and gourmet cooks!
riveted handle german chef knives!
8 piece orange kyocera knife set with case quantity: click here for giant bbq cutting boards!
these knives are made of an advanced, high-tech ceramic called zirconium oxide  (also called zirconia).
this material, second in hardness only to a diamond,  was originally developed for industrial applications where metal components  failed!each knife purchased from chef depot comes with a 5 year warranty and  free lifetime sharpening!
ceramics  are perfect for slicing, dicing, chopping and mincing meats, garlic, carrots,  onions, celery, fruits and more quantity:
ceramics  are perfect for slicing, dicing, chopping and mincing meats, garlic, carrots,  onions, celery, fruits and more quantity: click here for breakfast bar  island tables!
kyocera revolution ceramic utility knife, a 3 in.
chefs note: this great case has the hot pink look and it's made to last!
this is a great ceramic  knife set, it's very comfortable and easy to use.
the revolution series feature an extra hefty black handle and a perfect balance. .
kyocera revolution ceramic utility knife, with tomato red handle, it holds an edge without sharpening.
free bottle of vanilla extractquantity:
these knives are made of an advanced, high-tech ceramic,  second in hardness only to diamond, it was originally developed for industrial  applications where metal components failed.
this is our new kyocera kyotop ceramic chef knife set.
this is a great ceramic knife set, very comfortable and easy to use.
the ultra sharp ceramic blades cut with  precision and accuracy every time maintaining a razor-sharp edge for many  years.
5 piece blue kyocera knife set with in drawer organizer quantity:
this reversible board  (flat on other side) is nsf certified and will not dull your knife!
this superior extract enhances flavors in  cookies, cakes, ice cream and other foods!
these knives are made of an  advanced, high-tech ceramic, second in hardness only to diamond, it was  originally developed for industrial applications where metal components failed.
kyocera revolution ceramic utility knife & ceramic peeler gift set.
ceramics  are perfect for slicing, dicing, chopping and mincing meats, garlic, carrots,  onions, celery, fruits and more quantity: click here for portable  kitchen islands!
another  chef depot exclusive!
each ceramic knife features a cool orange  handle, that holds an edge without sharpening.
the revolution series  feature a colorful handles and perfect balance.
chef notes: these knives are a great choice for  chefs and gourmet cooks!a rainbow of colored handles are now available,  exclusively at chef depot.
receive a free red high quality pot holder / trivet with any $50.00  kyocera purchase ($50.00 or more)!
kyocera knives have many advantages over traditional cutlery.
click here for sushi making  supplies! product # cdkyoceraknifeset-rev-2pc-green retail $100.95 and up temporary sale price reduction $69.95 this is our exclusive 2 piece kyocera revolution knife set, it  includes a 5.5 in.
simple to use: insert, twist the handle to seal.
great as a trivet  for hot pots.
each ceramic knife features a cool orange handle, that holds an edge without sharpening.
these knives are made of an advanced,  high-tech ceramic, second in hardness only to diamond, it was originally  developed for industrial applications where metal components failed.
ceramics are  perfect for slicing, dicing, chopping and mincing meats, garlic, carrots,  onions, celery, fruits and more quantity:
the case is very attractive with double sewn reinforced edges and handle, extra strong elastic knife supports.
each one features  the kyotop damascus paring knife with 3" blade, utility knife with  4.5" blade, chef / slicing knife with 5" blade.
included with the diamond sharpener is a bevel stand that holds the knife at the proper angle, then you simple move the diamond tool horizontally over the blade, turn knife over and repeat.
apron is a heavy cotton poly blend for maximum comfort and durability.
product # cd2013-kyocera-revolution-orange-chefset-in-drawer-5pc $128.95 this is our exclusive 5 piece kyocera revolution knife set, it  includes a 5.5 in.
groove cutting board is perfect for the  backyard bbq or carving a small roast.
these knives are a great choice for chefs and gourmet cooks!
8 piece blue kyocera knife set with casequantity: this is our exclusive 8 piece kyocera revolution knife set, it includes a 5.5 in.
free red pot holder / trivetquantity: product # cdra02-grv-boos20x15w/groove list price $139.00 and up on sale $99.95 our new 20 x 15 x 2.25 in.
this is a great ceramic knife set, it's very comfortable and  easy to use.
find any word find all words  find exact phrase     help home| products| products ii| education| recipes| gourmet| cutlery| sharpeners| sportsmans corner| contact us|
function and style, a great  all around choice.
the edge on a  kyocera ceramic knife will last many years without sharpening.
paring knife, peeler and  knife guards to match with medium storage case.
each ceramic knife features a  cool orange handle, that holds an edge without sharpening.
this is the cutting board of choice for  all the chefs here at chef depot and many other famous chefs!
8 piece red kyocera knife set with case quantity: click here for giant bbq cutting boards!
chef tools, click here...
features one hole to allow hanging on the wall or oven or refrigerator when not in use.
free red pot holder / trivet quantity: chefs favorite gourmet chocolate bars!
it is perfect for holding all small garnishing tools (10 slots)!
ceramics are  perfect for slicing, dicing, chopping and mincing meats, garlic, carrots,  onions, celery, fruits and more quantity: dried ginger and  wasabi powder!
a rainbow of colored handles are now  available, exclusively at chef depot.
ceramics are perfect for slicing, dicing, chopping and  mincing meats, garlic, carrots, onions, celery, fruits and more quantity: click here for john  boos maple cutting boards!
paring kife with yellow handle, it  holds an edge without sharpening.
great as a trivet for hot pots.
receive a free bamboo cuttingboard with any $150.00 kyocera purchase  ($150.00 or more)!
chef notes: makes a perfect gift!
john boos maple  cutting boards!
quantity: new kitchen center islands!
chefs note: this great case has all the cool looks and it's made to last!
ceramics are perfect for  slicing, dicing, chopping.
the weight is about half of steel knives  making it comfortable for extended use.
the ultra sharp ceramic blade cuts with precision  and accuracy every time maintaining a razor-sharp edge for many years.
place your  order today, limited time offer!
receive a bottle of our 4 star vanilla extract for free with any $200.00  purchase ($200.00 or more)!
paring kife with yellow handle, it holds an edge without sharpening.
kyocera was the only knife sharp enough to meet our demands, the others  were too dull or the blades were too thin and brittle.
ceramics are perfect for slicing, dicing, chopping and mincing meats, garlic, carrots, onions, celery, fruits and more
simple to follow directions are included.
click the button below to add these to  your shopping cart!
kyocera revolution ceramic utility knife with orange handles, these hold an edge without sharpening.
see free offer below!
you must add to cart to get the free silicone pot holder &  trivet.
product # cd2013-kyocera-revolution-red-chefset-in-drawer-5pc $128.95 this is our exclusive 5 piece kyocera revolution knife set, it  includes a 5.5 in.
ceramic knives are hot!
8 piece red kyocera knife set with casequantity: this is our exclusive 8 piece kyocera revolution knife set, it includes a 5.5 in.
8 piece green kyocera knife set with casequantity: this is our exclusive 5 piece kyocera revolution knife set, it includes a 5.5 in.
chefs note: add to your cart!
ceramics are perfect for slicing, dicing, chopping and mincing meats, garlic, carrots, onions, celery, fruits and more!
5 piece orange kyocera knife set with in drawer organizerquantity: this is the new 5.5 in.
another chef  depot exclusive!
the new polka dots pink knife case is made to hold 8 to 12 + pieces of cutlery and garnishing tools.
chefs note: this great case has all the cool looks and it's made to last!more chef knives!
this is a great ceramic knife set, it's very comfortable and easy to use.
oiling it with mystery oil or board cream, will keep it looking new (available below).
free bamboo cutting boardquantity: this is the new kyocera advanced ceramics knife sharpener.
paring knife each with orange  handles, these hold an edge without sharpening.
product # cdkt-hipkyoceraknifeset4pc retail $735.00 and up sale  price $499.95 this is our new kyocera kyotop ceramic chef knife set.
we tested several  brands of ceramic knives - here's the results!
the weight is about half of steel knives making it comfortable for  extended use.
******* receive a free bamboo cuttingboard with any $150.00 kyocera purchase ($150.00 or more)!
paring knife each with blue  handles, it holds an edge without sharpening.
each ceramic knife features a cool blue  handle, that holds an edge without sharpening.
we make these  in the usa !
8 piece blue kyocera knife set with case quantity: click here for the finest butcher block tables you  can buy!
these all hold an edge without  sharpening.
quantity: click here for giant chefs cutting boards!
quantity: click here for  maple chopping blocks!
600 grit stone will also remove chips from your knife blade.
5 piece red kyocera knife set with in drawer organizer quantity:
chefs do it with spice!
product # cda83409-red-orka-square-pot-holder retail price  $10.00 and up free !
more information, in the news!
thick with stainless steel handles and removable stainless steel pan insert.
this is the new 5 1/2 in.
paring knife each with orange handles, these hold an edge without sharpening.
a simple and ideal solution for fast in home sharpening and refreshing your ceramic knife blades.
chef notes: these knives are a great choice for chefs and gourmet cooks!
place your order today, limited time offer!
special safety features, will not operate without cover in place.
the best wine opener!
we guarantee you will like your new  ceramic knife!
kyocera revolution ceramic utility knife, with green handle, it holds an edge  without sharpening.
kyocera revolution ceramic santoku knife,  with pure white handle, and matching white ceramic peeler, these hold an edge  without sharpening.
the revolution series feature a  colorful handles and perfect balance.
chef notes: we tested several brands of ceramic knives - here's the results!
features battery powered diamond grinding stones.
this set comes in an attractive gift box.
kyocera revolution ceramic utility knife each with blue handles, it holds an  edge without sharpening.
our new laguiole waiters corkscrew in black horn.
only kyocera scored very  high in sharpness, quality, workmanship, material and warranty.
function and style, a great all around choice.
product # cdkyoceraknifeset-rev-3pc-red retail $140.95 and up temporary sale price reduction $89.95
each one of our kyotop knives comes in a beautiful  presentation box.
ceramics are  perfect for slicing, dicing, chopping and mincing meats, garlic, carrots,  onions, celery, fruits and more quantity: click here
we tested over 3 dozen different styles of bottle stops before we found these high quality beauties.
handle, it holds an edge without sharpening.
ceramics are perfect for  slicing, dicing and mincing garlic, carrots, onions, celery, fruits and more.
oiling it with mystery oil or board  cream, will keep it looking new (available below).
the peeler is very cool and we like it for carrots and root vegetables.
it will protect from intense heat, up to 495 f. non slip, waterproof  and non porous, they provide safety and perfect food hygiene.
this is our exclusive 3 piece kyocera revolution knife set, it  includes a 5.5 in.
product # cdkyoceraknifeset-rev-3pc-green retail $140.95 and up temporary sale price reduction $89.95
these knives are a great choice for  chefs and gourmet cooks!
the revolution series feature a colorful  handle and a perfect balance.
the weight is about half of  steel knives making it comfortable for extended use.
kyocera  revolution ceramic utility knife and 3 in.
each ceramic knife features a  cool tomato red handle, that holds an edge without sharpening.
kyocera ceramic santoku knife and 3 in.
another chef depot exclusive!
these  knives are a great choice for chefs and gourmet cooks!
each ceramic knife features a cool tomato red handle, that holds an edge without sharpening.
only kyocera scored very high  in sharpness, quality, workmanship, material and warranty.
8 piece green kyocera knife set with case quantity: click here for the finest butcher block tables you  can buy!
the revolution series feature a colorful handle and a  perfect balance.
click on page 8 below for more champagne products.
this  set comes in an attractive gift box.
product # cdkyoceraknifeset-rev-2pc retail $100.00 and up sale  price $69.95
5 piece orange kyocera knife set with in drawer organizer quantity: 5 piece green kyocera knife set +
this new polka dot design is way cool.
chefs note: pink is hot!
steel cork used for wine keeps in the flavor, steel cork for champagne locks the bubbly effervescence in for days.
they  feature an ultra-sharp edge that lasts much longer than steel.
this is our exclusive 8 piece kyocera revolution knife set, it  includes a 5.5 in.
custom  sizes are available...
you must add to cart to get the free cuttingboard.
the weight is about half of steel knives making it comfortable  for extended use.
product # cdkyoceraknifeset-rev-3pc-blue retail $140.95 and up temporary sale price reduction $89.95 this is our exclusive 3 piece kyocera revolution knife set, it  includes a 5.5 in.
this is a great ceramic knife  set, it's very comfortable and easy to use.
the revolution series feature a colorful handle and a perfect balance.
kyocera was the only knife sharp enough to meet our demands, the others were too dull or the blades were too thin and brittle.
kyocera revolution ceramic santoku knife, and a 4.5 in.
opened, the 12 pc. is slightly larger.
product #cdkyoceraknifeset-rev-2pc-yellow retail $100.95 and up temporary sale price reduction $69.95
we tested several brands of ceramic knives - here's the  results!
kyocera revolution ceramic utility knife each with blue handles, it holds an edge without sharpening.
this is a great ceramic knife, it's very comfortable and easy to use.
each one of our revolution knives comes in a beautiful  presentation box.
ceramics are perfect for slicing,  dicing, chopping and mincing meats, garlic, carrots, onions, celery, fruits and  more!
each one features the kyotop damascus paring knife with 3" blade, utility knife with 4.5" blade, slicing knife with 5" blade, chef's knife with 5.5" blade.
the 8 pc. measures 21 in.
the etched "bee" emblem (napoleon's symbol representing industry, efficiency and productivity), ensures that each piece is a genuine chateau laguiole.
each one features the kyotop damascus paring knife with 3" blade, utility knife with 4.5" blade, chef / slicing knife with 5" blade.
this superior extract enhances flavors in cookies, cakes, ice cream and other foods!
your boss will love one of these!
the revolution series feature an extra hefty black handle and a perfect balance.
these amazing knives hold an edge without sharpening.
groove cutting board is perfect for the backyard bbq or carving a small roast.
receive our exclusive john boosmystery oil for free with purchase.
each ceramic knife features a  cool eco green handle, that holds an edge without sharpening.
each one of our revolution knives comes in a beautiful presentation box.
ceramics are  perfect for slicing, dicing, chopping and mincing meats, garlic, carrots,  onions, celery, fruits and more quantity: click here for swiss  chocolate bars!
paring knife with green handle, it holds an edge without sharpening.
5 piece blue kyocera knife set with in drawer organizerquantity: this is our exclusive 5 piece kyocera revolution knife set, it includes a 5.5 in.
these knives are a  great choice for chefs and gourmet cooks!
ceramics are perfect for slicing, dicing, chopping and mincing meats, garlic, carrots, onions, celery, fruits and more ******** receive a bottle of our 4 star vanilla extract for free with any $200.00 purchase ($200.00 or more)!
order a few sets and share!
the ultra sharp ceramic blades cuts with precision and accuracy every time  maintaining a razor-sharp edge for many years.
chefs note: chef ming tsai likes to use this cool chopping block!
the new paisley brown knife case is made to hold 8 to 12 + pieces of cutlery and garnishing tools.
click here for sushi making  supplies! product #cdkyoceraknifeset-rev-3pc-yellow retail $140.95 and up temporary sale price reduction $89.95 this is our exclusive 3 piece kyocera revolution knife set, it  includes a 5.5 in.
in drawer  organizer (same as pictured but green handles)
perfect for daily meal preparation and serving cheese & holiday appetizers!