chef notes: we like the perfect balance and feel of these beautiful knives, the extra sharp thin blade are amazing.
chefs note: the block looks so good.
bonus: free offers above & below!
this is the new 3 piece global master chef knife set.
forged steak knife set includes four 4.5 in.
each handmade knife  features blades forged from super high quality japanese alloy steel.
product # cd2011-global-chef-knife-paring-2pc retail $199.00 and up sale price
chefs note: sweet knife, cool handles, razor sharp, super thin edge, perfectly balanced and amazing cromova steel blade.
bonus: free  offers above & below!
were fast - we can ship you this cutting board for delivery in a few days.
this is the same type used to mirror finish handmade samurai swords.
our logo cuttingboard features a rounded top edge and it's oil finished!
yoshikin uses its own proprietary  stainless steel which it calls cromova 18 stainless steel.
this is the new 4 1/4 inch blade global paring knife, it easily glide  through food!
right handed yanagi sashimi knifequantity: this is the new 7 inch blade global oriental chefs knife features hollow ground air pockets that easily glide through food!
bladequantity: this is the new global slicing knife, a great knife for slicing fish, it easily glide through with every stroke!
these tools are made of an advanced, high-tech ceramic, second in hardness only to diamond, it was originally developed for industrial applications where metal components failed.
product # cdknifeholster005black retail $45.99 and up on  sale $24.99 our exclusive "chef knife holster" is perfect for the busy  chef!
it is also called a "knife scabbard" as used by escoffier.
global knives are made from the finest high carbon stainless steel available for producing professional quality kitchen knives.
product # cdgtf-4001-global-4pc-steak-knife-set-serrated retail  $299.00 and up sale price $219.95 this is the new 4 piece global steak knife set.
the cleaver is forged from super high quality japanese alloy steel.
bladequantity: this is the new 6 piece global knife set in stainless steel block.
we like  the feel of this little beauty and the extra sharp thin blade.
$145.95 our new exclusive global 2 piece set features a 8 inch blade global chef  knife, the most used knife and a 2.5 in sheep foot paring knife!
choose from 7 in, 8 in, or 8.25 in blades below!
to balance their knives, global uses a hollow handle which is then filled with just the right amount of sand to create the correct balance.
several other sizes are also listed below.
we like the feel of this little beauty and the extra sharp thin blade.
global 2 piece setquantity: this is the new global knife case.
product # cdg-58-global-chef-knife-6in retail $129.00 and up sale price $98.95
the block easily shows where to place up to 5 knives on each side.
chef notes: we  like this high quality tool.
chefs note: sweet serrated knife, cool handle, razor sharp, super  thin edge, perfectly balanced and amazing cromova steel blade.
click here for the featured global minosharp video!
these boards meet all nsf standards!
this holster is dishwasher safe and made from a very durable canvas to guard your sharp knives.
each knife is carefully finished by the hands of skilled craftsmen.
this high percentage of chromium contributes to global's good stain  resistance.
16 pocket casequantity: our new solid makassar wood magnetic knife block holder is sleek and cool.
global chefs vegetable nakiri global chefs vegetable nakiri, hollow ground $91.95 quantity: make your own pizza!
global minosharp black/red
these two elements give a knife good edge retention.
yoshikin uses its own proprietary stainless steel which it calls  cromova 18 stainless steel.
carving knife, 8.75 in bread knife, 11 slot block.
global chefs vegetable nakiriquantity: this is the new 4 piece global steak knife set.
order any 2 sizes below and get the angle clips included for free (mention the offer in comments section at checkout).
chef notes: we like the  feel of this beauty and the extra sharp thin blade.
it features 2 slots, one has a ceramic wheel that turns and one has a diamond wheel that turns.
chef notes: perfect for fast apple birds, slicing pears and  fruits!
chefs note: sweet santoku, cool handle, razor sharp, super thin edge, perfectly balanced and amazing cromova steel blade.
each one is very sharp.
2 piece global knife setquantity: our exclusive "chef knife holster" is perfect for the busy chef!
extra fine  shaft works wonders on your amazing global knives.
if you want a high quality knife case, you found it.
product # cdg42/41-global-knife-magnet retail $199.00 and up on  sale $151.95 global heavy duty stainless steel magnetic knife rack is made in  japan, a cool modern design!
knife holder quantity: global 20 in.
large global minosharp black/redquantity: product # cd15inroundx2incuttingboardw/logo list price $109.95 and up sale price $79.00
chefs note: sweet set, great deal!
chefs note: a big sweet chef knife, cool handle, razor sharp, super thin edge, perfectly balanced and amazing cromova steel blade.
made in europe to our exact specifications.
and measures aprox 12 in.
bonus: free offers  below!
the set includes g-66 7 inch (18 cm) oriental fluted cooks knife, gs-37 5 1/4 inch (13 cm) santoku granton knife and gs-38 3 1/2 inch (9 cm)
it featues dimples and 11 slots.
this is the new serrated wide blade global bread knife!
it is pictured with some of our favoriteglobal knives!
many sushi chefs also prefer this style for  fast cutting of sushi rolls.
asian chefs knife, gl-gs58 and gl-gs54, gl-g4!
chefs knife, g-58 and gs-38!
chefs note: sweet  knife set, cool handles, razor sharp, super thin edge, perfectly balanced and  amazing cromova steel blade.
the ultra sharp ceramic blade cuts with precision and accuracy every time maintaining a razor-sharp edge for many years.
extra fine waterstones  will quickly sharpen your amazing global knives without scratching.
chef is testing a 3 pc.
bladequantity: this is the new global deba knife.
choose from 7 inch blade or 5.25 in. blade below!
chefs  custom kitchens - as seen on tv!
global oriental chef knife, 7 in.
gsf-49 $55.95 quantity: make your own  pizza!
each handmade knife is forged from  super high quality japanese alloy steel.
addblack knife guards for $5.00!
global knives are made from the finest high carbon stainless steel available  for producing professional quality kitchen knives.
this is the new global anniversary utility knife.
product # cdgsf-4023-global-4pc-steak-knife-set retail $299.00 and  up sale price $219.95 this is the new 4 piece global steak knife set.
phone: 630-739-5200 this is the new 7 inch blade global santoku features hollow ground air pockets that easily glide through food!
the screws are hidden by covers  on each end.
chefs note: sweet santoku, cool handle, razor sharp, super thin  edge, perfectly balanced and amazing cromova steel blade.
works for righty or lefty.
each handmade  knife is forged from super high quality japanese alloy steel.
choose from 2 styles below.
cool handles, perfectly balanced and amazing cromova steel blade.
block setquantity: this is the new 10 inch blade global chef knife, the most used knife, it easily glide through food!
asian chefs knife, gl-gs58 and  gl-gs54, gl-g4!
3 piece global anniversary knife set quantity: 3 piece global anniversary knife set (add knife guards)  $218.95 quantity: make your own pizza!
the mo and va in cromova 18 stand for  molybdenum and vanadium.
global knives  are made from the finest high carbon stainless steel available for producing  professional quality kitchen knives.
the  mo and va in cromova 18 stand for molybdenum and vanadium.
each handmade knife is forged from super high quality japanese alloy steel.
$69.95 quantity: swiss  diamond chef pan has 200,000 diamonds on sale now!
way cool case design.
this is the new 3.5 and 4 inch blade global paring knives, it easily glide through food!
choose from several below.
the screws are hidden by covers on each end.
3 piece global anniversary knife setquantity: global heavy duty stainless steel magnetic knife rack is made in japan, a cool modern design!
chef notes: we like the feel of this beauty and the extra sharp thin  blade.
global knives are manufactured by yoshikin in niigata, japan.
you can now get one for each hand (left or right).
chef notes: we like the perfect balance and feel of these  beautiful knives, the extra sharp thin blade are amazing.
the cro in cromova 18 stands for chromium  and the 18 is the percentage of chromium in the steel.
we like these round cuttingboards for serving cheese platters at holiday parties!
this is the new 6 inch blade global flexible utility knife!
the grindings on the blade make it cruise through meats effortlessly!
the magnet bar easily attaches to any wall or cabinet for safe knife storage.
2 piece global knife set quantity: 2 piece global knife set (with knife guards) $176.95 quantity: make your own pasta!
global uses this method rather than using a full tang and a bolster to balance their knives for two reasons.
if you want a high quality knife set  to pass through generations, you found it.
choose your size below!
legal notice and copyright customer service - e-mail us or phone:(630) 739-5200 customer feedback
this round solid maple end grain (checkerboard look)
the heavy duty belt is quick locking and easily adjustable, one size fits all.
this amazing knife is a $37.00 value!
quantity: click here for  knife guards, protect your blades and your fingers!
gsf-50 $71.95 quantity: global utility  knife, 4.5 in.
4 piece global steak knives, serrated blades quantity: 8 piece global steak knives, serrated  blades (plus free bonus)
chefs note: the base is very stable so it does not move around while in use.
it also sharpens ceramic knives by using the diamond wheel only.
chefs note: sweet hw chef knives, cool handles, razor sharp, super thin edge, perfectly balanced and amazing cromova steel blades.
chefs note: the perfect mate for your global knives.
if you want a high quality knife set to pass  through generations, you found it.
oil it every month withmystery oil, to keep it looking new.
the cro in  cromova 18 stands for chromium and the 18 is the percentage of chromium in the  steel.
this high percentage of chromium contributes to  global's good stain resistance.
blade, it's the slickest blade made.
chef notes: we like  the feel of this beauty and the extra sharp thin blade.
if you want a high  quality steak knife set to pass through generations, you found it.
it also makes kitchen prep time more effecient.
global paring knife 3.5 in.
product # cdg-11-global-yanagi-sashimi-knife-10in
product # cdgs-3-global-chefs-utility retail $95.00 and up sale  price $75.95 this is the new global chefs utility knife.
$49.95 quantity: < get out your grilling tongs and fire up the bbq!
chefs  note: sweet knife, cool handles, razor sharp, super thin edge, perfectly  balanced and amazing cromova steel blade.
chefs note: sweet slicing knife, cool handles, razor sharp, super thin edge, perfectly balanced and amazing cromova steel blade.
global knives are  manufactured by yoshikin in niigata, japan.
it featues dimples  and 11 slots.
global knives; g-3, g-4, g-9, gs-3, gs-7, gs-5, gs-14, gsf-15!
click the button below to add these to your shopping cart!
bamboo cutting boards are made from a select grade of bamboo, it's a totally sustainable natural resource.
chef notes: this peeler will quickly peel carrots, apples and any root vegetables.
and cool handles, razor sharp, super thin edge, perfectly balanced and amazing cromova steel blades.
if you want a high quality knife  case, you found it.
product # cdgs-38-global-paring-knife-3.5in retail $85.00 and up sale price $61.95
extra thick and strong, weighing in at over 4 lbs,  this rack features the most powerful magnets to grip the blade firmly for safe  and convenient visible knife storage!
this holder helps to free up precious drawer and counter space.
wow, did you say...free cutting boards?
4 piece global steak knives, smooth blades quantity: 8 piece global steak knives, smooth blades  (plus free bonus)
comfortable, lightweight and perfectly balanced.
santoku knife (hollow ground), g-48, gs-3 and gs-38!
knife holder $166.95 quantity: global 32  in.
global chefs utility knife gs-3quantity: this is the new global chefs vegetable nakiri knife.
global knives are made from the finest high  carbon stainless steel available for producing professional quality kitchen  knives.
each one  is very sharp.
the edge is so large and prominent that it is easily seen with the naked eye and extends a quarter inch or more up from the tip of the knife.
chefs note: a really amazing serrated chef knife, cool handle, razor sharp, super thin edge, perfectly balanced and amazing cromova steel blade.
yoshikin uses its own  proprietary stainless steel which it calls cromova 18 stainless steel.
quantity: butcher blocks are on sale!
do not forget  yourknife edge guards!
chef notes: we like the feel of these knives and the extra sharp thin blades
detailed instructions are included.
chef notes: global knives are made from the finest high carbon stainless steel available for producing professional quality kitchen knives.
the 20 pocket case adds the outside side pocket.
other unique features of global knives are their smooth contours and seamless, all stainless steel construction which eliminates food and dirt traps offering the ultimate in safety and hygiene.
quantity: swiss diamond chef pan has  200,000 diamonds!
utility knife, 7.5 in.
this is the new 7 inch blade global oriental chef knife, the most used knife, it easily glide through food!
we will do our best to beat any competitors price.
chef notes: we like the perfect balance and feel of  these beautiful knives, the extra sharp thin blade are amazing.
bonus:  free offers above & below!
kasumi titanium chef knife $149.95 this is the new blue kyocera ceramic peeler, it holds an edge without sharpening.
second, asian knives typically do not have bolsters, since they only serve as a hindrance to cutting and sharpening.
the combination of the elements molybdenum and vanadium is one reason, even as the global straight edge gets dull it is still much thinner, and, therefore, much sharper than the knife with the beveled edge.
our bamboo products are handcrafted using small bamboo strips glued and pressed together with approved food grade glue (edible).
chefs note: add to your cart!
closed and double that size opened.
yoshikin uses its own proprietary stainless steel which it calls cromova 18 stainless steel.
9 piece global knife setquantity: this is the new global stainless steel knife block.
if you want a high quality steak knife set to pass through generations, you found it.
global 2 piece set butcher blocks are on sale!
extra fine shaft works wonders on your amazing global knives.
low prices & free shipping!
if  you want a high quality knife set to pass through generations, you found it.
it also makes  kitchen prep time more effecient.
bonus: free cutting board with purchase!
forged steak knife set  includes four forged steak knives (3.5 in. blades).
this high percentage of  chromium contributes to global's good stain resistance.
this steel is hard  enough for global knives to keep their edge for a long time, but soft enough so  that it is not too difficult to sharpen the knives.
chef notes: we like the cutting edge look and feel of this global knife case.
this holster is dishwasher safe and made from a  very durable canvas to guard your sharp knives.
we like the feel of this knife and the extra sharp thin blade.
made from a durable polyester fabric with pvc backing.
******** receive a free red high quality pot holder / trivet with any $150.00 global purchase ($150.00 or more)!
you will love this knife!
addblack knife guards for $6.00!
chefs note: we like to use our bamboo boards for parties and special events.
after harvesting bamboo it grows back quickly since the root system is so dense.
retail $195.00  and up sale price $149.95
lifetime warranty!free shipping in cont.
the stone with base measures aprox.
simply add a few drops of water to the unit and pull the knife through several times.
another great gift idea...more bamboo cutting are here!, chefs note: we like to use our bamboo boards for parties and special events.
this is the new 2 pc. set, 5.5 in.
this chef holster will hold a 10 in.
featured in a special gift box with bonus.
the mo and va in cromova 18  stand for molybdenum and vanadium.
when komin yamada was commissioned for the job he developed a range of  knives that was truly new and revolutionary, using the best materials available  and the latest manufacturing techniques.
serrated chef knifequantity: this is the new 4.75 inch blade global deba knife!
it weighs over 12 lbs.
choose from 2 sizes below!
the mo and va in  cromova 18 stand for molybdenum and vanadium.
the knives are forged from super high quality japanese alloy steel.
global knives are made from  the finest high carbon stainless steel available for producing professional  quality kitchen knives.
simply global, easy to use.
chefs note: sweet knife block.
large global ceramic sharpening stone, 120 gritquantity: this is the new 6 1/4 inch blade global flexible boning knife!
used for slicing fish and carving meats.
cutting board is made from select #1 grade hard rock maple.
yoshikin uses its own proprietary stainless steel which it calls cromova 18  stainless steel.
the non slip ergo poly handle is very comfortable and virtually indestructible, perfect for every serious chef.
this steel is hard enough for global knives to keep  their edge for a long time, but soft enough so that it is not too difficult to  sharpen the knives.
quantity: bakers supplies!
it will protect from intense heat, up to 495 f. non slip, waterproof and non porous, they provide safety and perfect food hygiene.
if you want a high quality knife to  pass through generations, you found it.
more chopping blocks!
all global knives are now in stock!
plain blade or features hollow ground air pockets that easily glide through food!
choose from 3 sizes, mounting screws included.
perfect heat transfer, easiest pan to clean.
allows for fast and effective storage and lets you show off your global knives!
a great choice for chefs and gourmet cooks!
if you want a high quality knife set to pass through generations, you found it.
these two elements  give a knife good edge retention.
chefs favorite pasta supplies!
it includes a 4 in paring knife, 5 in.
chefs note: a really amazing knife, cool handle, razor sharp, super thin edge, perfectly balanced and amazing cromova steel blade.
global knives are made from the finest high carbon stainless steel  available for producing professional quality kitchen knives.
the deba is used in traditional japanes prep for cutting fish, chicken and meat.
this stone features a 3000 and 8000 grit extrafine surfaces plus a durable base.
click  here for the featured global minosharp video!
this is the new global minosharp knife sharpener.
and 7 inch blade global hollow ground vegetable knives!
any questions, call the chefs!
this steel is hard enough for global  knives to keep their edge for a long time, but soft enough so that it is not  too difficult to sharpen the knives.
this is a new kasumi titanium chef knife with a 7 3/4 in.
we like the crisp new style.
used for garnishing and working with small fruits and vegetables.
chef is using one of his nsf maple cutting boards!
chef notes: we like the cutting edge modern look of this global block.
if you want a high quality cleaver to pass through generations, you found it.
these are the new large global global ceramic sharpening stones.
this  steel is hard enough for global knives to keep their edge for a long time, but  soft enough so that it is not too difficult to sharpen the knives.
bonus:  free offer below, buy 8 knives with free bonus item and add the free knife to  your cart!
the 11 lb. round cuttingboard measures 15 in.
chefs note: sweet chef knife, cool handle, razor sharp, super thin edge, perfectly balanced and amazing cromova steel blade.
free shipping in cont.
4 piece global steak knives, serrated bladesquantity: this is the new 7 inch blade global vegetable knife, it easily glide through vegetables and other foods!
if you want a high quality knife set to pass through generations, you  found it.
see free offers  above & below!
place your order today, limited quantities and limited time offer!
global knives; g-4, g-3 g-9, gs-3, gs-7, g-835!
see free offers above & below : add to cart!
the magnet bar easily attaches  to any wall or cabinet for safe knife storage.
chefs note: sweet slicer, cool handle, razor sharp, super thin edge, perfectly balanced and amazing cromova steel blade.
did you know that maple cutting boards naturally kill bacteria?
if you want a high quality serrated knife to pass through generations, you found it.
bonus: free offers  above & below!
chef notes: we like the feel of this beauty and  the extra sharp thin blade.
chefs  note: sweet chef knife, cool handle, razor sharp, super thin edge, perfectly  balanced and amazing cromova steel blade.
global santoku 5.25 in.
21 pocket global case (pictured) $107.95quantity: this is the new 6 inch blade global chef knife, the most used knife, it easily glide through food!
each handmade knife  is forged from super high quality japanese alloy steel.
we like the feel and extra sharp long thin blade.
works great as a spoon rest when making a batch of chili or marinara sauce.
chefs note: a really amazing boning knife, cool handle, razor sharp, super thin edge, perfectly balanced and amazing cromova steel blade.
if you want a high quality hollow ground knife to pass through generations, you found it.
product # cdg66-global-oriental-chefs-granton-edge-7in retail  $159.00 and up sale price $122.95 this is the new 7 inch blade global oriental chefs knife features hollow  ground air pockets that easily glide through food!
used for chopping and slicing and working  with fruits and vegetables.
we have low prices on these chopping blocks!
you must purchase $200.00 or more of global cutlery and add this item to your cart!
a heating process makes the natural sugar in the wood turn brown to create beautiful colors.
chef utility knife, 5.5 in.
global serrated utility knife, 6 in.
this is the new global sashimi slicer knife.
bonus: free offers below!
we could not believe how sharp these knives were until we tried one.
the black hard case has 16 pockets for knife/culinary tool storage.
each handmade knife features blades forged from super high quality japanese alloy steel.
bonus: free offers above & below global knives are made from the finest high carbon stainless steel available for producing professional quality kitchen knives.
great gifts for  ....
the cro in cromova 18 stands for chromium and the 18 is the percentage  of chromium in the steel.
chefs note: this holster will help to eliminate the loss of knives and tools.
these two elements give a knife  good edge retention.
quantity: global ceramic replacement rod, 9.5 in.
click here for the featured handmade global knife set!
vegetable knife, 6 in.
a few global products are not pictured, call us.
chefs note:  this holster will help to eliminate the loss of knives and tools.
this amazing knife  holder comes in a gift box.
usa on orders over $99.00!
see free offers below!
the very powerful magnets are built into the inside of the block.
it wil lsharpen the titanium knives, or any good quality knife blade quickly and easily.
this is the new 6 inch blade global chef knife, the most used knife, it  easily glide through food!
it's very comfortable and easy to use.
if you want a high quality  knife to pass through generations, you found it.
chef notes: we like the feel of this beauty  and the extra sharp thin blade.
another chef depot exclusive!
chef notes: sweet niblets!
buy one, try it  for a month, if you do not love it, send it back!
many sushi chefs also prefer this style for fast cutting of sushi rolls.
this is the new 9 piece global knife set in stainless steel block.
see free offers above  & below : add to cart!
this is the new 3 piece global knife set.
chefs note: a really amazing carving knife, cool handle, razor sharp, super thin edge, perfectly balanced and amazing cromova steel blade.
yes, get a 2 pack, measuring aprox.
it includes a 3.5 in paring  knife, 6 in.
21 pocket global case (pictured) $107.95 quantity: 16 pocket global case (not pictured) $93.95 quantity: 11 pocket global case (not pictured) $65.95 quantity: 10 pocket global knife roll (not pictured) $47.95 quantity: 16 pocket global knife roll (not pictured) $83.95 quantity: bakers supplies!
when komin yamada was commissioned for the job his mandate was to develop a range of knives that was truly new and revolutionary, using the best materials available and the latest manufacturing techniques.
chef notes: we  like the cutting edge look and feel of this global knife case.
free global birds beak peeling knifequantity: this is the new 8 inch blade global chef knife, the most used knife, it easily glide through food!
quantity: this is the new global santoku knife!
you will too, or just  send them back!
chefs note: a perfect choice for student chefs and pastry arts students.
if you  want a high quality knife to pass through generations, you found it.
you must purchase $499.00 or more of global cutlery and add this item to your cart!
however, their edges are ground straight to a point rather than beveled resulting in a dramatically sharper knife which stays sharper longer.
product # cdg-5838-global-2pc-set retail $200.00 and up sale  price $174.95 this is the new 2 piece global knife set.
see free offers above  & below!
this holster is black (pictured in red only  to show it holding knives).
product # cdg-9-global-bread-knife-8.75in retail $159.00 and up sale price $109.95 this is the new 8 3/4 inch serrated blade global bread knife, it easily  glide through crusty bread, cakes, sandwiches and more!
product # cdg-45458-global-3pc-anniversary-set retail $295.00 and up sale price
oil it every month with emmets elixer, to keep it looking new.
with proper care, this maple board will last for life!
each handmade knife is forged from super high quality  japanese alloy steel.
hollow ground global carving knife!
product # cd220/br-global-minosharp-sharpener retail $69.00 and up sale price $44.95 this is the new global minosharp knife sharpener.
global deba knife, right handedquantity: this is the new 6 inch blade global serrated utility knife, it easily glide through food!
these cutting boards simply wash off with soap and water.
it is often asked why global knives stay sharp so long without sharpening.
this is the new 3 piece global anniversary knife set.
they were designed in 1985 by komin  yamada.
this is a great peeler!
you must add to cart to get the free silicone pot holder & trivet.
if you want a  high quality knife to pass through generations, you found it.
chefs note: sweet knife, cool handle, razor sharp, super thin edge, perfectly balanced and amazing cromova steel blade.
quantity: this is the new global chefs utility knife.
this is the new 5 1/4 inch blade global mini santoku.
chefs note: sweet serrated knife, cool handle, razor sharp, super thin edge, perfectly balanced and amazing cromova steel blade.
bamboo knife trayquantity: great for chef's on the move!
chef knife (or smaller), a 12 in.
free shipping on orders over $99.00!
our new exclusive global 2 piece set features a 8 inch blade global chef knife, the most used knife and a 2.5 in sheep foot paring knife!
maple cutting boards will not dull your knife!
great medium size knife for small  hands too.
several other  sizes are also listed below.
yoshikin uses its own proprietary stainless steel which  it calls cromova 18 stainless steel.
bamboo cutting boards make an attractive serving and chopping surface.
global ceramic knife sharpener, 9.5 in.
click here forknife edge guards.
great medium size knife for small hands too.
hw chefs knife, 6.25 in.
chefs note: slicker than oil on water!
chef notes: perfect for fast apple birds, slicing pears and fruits!
this is the new global chefs vegetable nakiri knife.
heavy weight, each handmade knife is forged from more super high quality japanese alloy steel.
extra thick and strong, weighing in at over 4 lbs, this rack features the most powerful magnets to grip the blade firmly for safe and convenient visible knife storage!
4 piece global steak knives, smooth bladesquantity: this is the new 4 piece global steak knife set.
global knives are made  from the finest high carbon stainless steel available for producing  professional quality kitchen knives.
it has a 10 in. blade!
this high percentage of chromium contributes to global's good stain resistance.
copyright 1999 - 2012 chef depot inc. all rights reserved.
chef notes: we like the cutting edge  modern look of this global block.
if you want a high quality knife set to pass through generations,  you found it.
extremely sanitary design.
right handed yanagi sashimi knife quantity: left handed yanagi sashimi knife quantity: butcher blocks are on sale!
global chefs utility knife gs-3 quantity: global utility knife gs-2 $75.95 quantity: global  utility knife, 4.5 in.
each handmade knife is forged from super  high quality japanese alloy steel.
when  komin yamada was commissioned for the job he developed a range of knives that  was truly new and revolutionary, using the best materials available and the  latest manufacturing techniques.
replacement shaft is also  available below.
serrated utility knife, 7.5 in.
the chefs also like to use our dark walnut chopping blocks!
the most important feature of any knife is its edge, and the global edge is truly its signature.
yoshikin uses its  own proprietary stainless steel which it calls cromova 18 stainless steel.
quantity: make your own pasta!
global  knives are made from the finest high carbon stainless steel available for  producing professional quality kitchen knives.
chef notes: we like the feel of this beauty and the extra sharp thin blade.
we like the size of this knife.
each handmade knife is forged from super high quality japanese  alloy steel.
coarse, fine, extra fine highest grade ceramic waterstones will quickly sharpen your amazing global knives.
free red pot holder / trivetquantity: this is the new 11 inch blade global chef knife, the most used knife, it easily glide through food!
chefs favorite  pizza making supplies!
receive a pro waiters wine opener for free with $200.00 purchase of global cutlery ($200.00 or more)!
when komin yamada was commissioned for the job he developed a range of knives that was truly new and revolutionary, using the best materials available and the latest manufacturing techniques.
features one hole to allow hanging on the wall or oven or refrigerator when not in use.
it will take a fine sharp japanese knife and produce a razor edge quickly.
chef notes: we like these high quality sharpeners.
chef notes: we like these high quality ceramic waterstones.
these two elements give a knife good edge  retention.
forged steak knife set  includes four 4.5 in.
global knives are made from the finest high carbon  stainless steel available for producing professional quality kitchen knives.
forged steak knife set includes four forged steak knives (3.5 in. blades).
quantity: get out your grilling tongs and  fire up the bbq!
global knives are manufactured by  yoshikin in niigata, japan.
product # cdgs-1-global-paring-knife-4.25in retail $89.00 and up sale price $69.95
chefs note: sweet knife set, cool handles, razor sharp, super thin edge, perfectly balanced and amazing cromova steel blade.
used for chopping and slicing and working with fruits and vegetables.
the heavy duty belt is quick locking and easily  adjustable, one size fits all.
exclusively handmade to our exact specifications in the usa.
this holder helps to free up precious  drawer and counter space.
and cool handles, razor sharp, super  thin edge, perfectly balanced and amazing cromova steel blades.
this free offer ends next month...
chef notes: way cool knife set!
and measures 11.75 in.
product # cdg-667/21-global-knife-case-21pocket sale price $114.95 this is the new global knife case.
you will too, or just send them back! bonus: free offers above & below!
the base and box protect the stone while not in use.
it is totally sealed and when you get within an inch, the powerful magnets pull the knife firmly to the block.
it includes a 4 in  oriental cooks knife, 5 in.
and cool handles, razor sharp, super thin  edge, perfectly balanced and amazing cromova steel blades.
chefs  favorite pasta supplies!
if you want a  high quality steak knife set to pass through generations, you found it.
chefs note: the annoying guessing and fishing for the right knife will never happen again.
chef notes: we like this high quality tool.
choose from several below!
bonus: free offers above &  below!
this is the new 8 inch blade global chef knife, with granton edge air pockets on the blade, the most used knife, it glides super easily through food!
each handmade knife is forged from super high  quality japanese alloy steel.
they were designed in 1985 by komin yamada.
it includes a 4 in oriental cooks knife, 5 in.
the cro in cromova 18 stands for chromium and the 18 is the percentage of chromium in the steel.
keeps a sharper edge longer than most other knives.
product # cdg-5-global-vegetable-knife-7in retail $145.00 and up sale price $117.95 this is the new 7 inch blade global vegetable knife, it easily glide  through vegetables and other foods!
chef knife (or smaller), a 12  in.
knife holderquantity: this is the new 9 1/2 inch global ceramic knife sharpener.
place your order today, limited time offer!
bonus: free offer below, buy 8 knives with free bonus item and add the free knife to your cart!
this is the new 8.25 in.
blue peelerquantity: this sushi was made by 2 sushi chefs for an oceanside party!
the outstanding kasumi titanium coated blade has been achieved by combining the best of advanced modern manufacturing.
our new solid maple magnetic knife block holder is amazing.
chefs note: sweet mini santoku, cool handle, razor sharp, super thin edge, perfectly balanced and amazing cromova steel blade.
asian chef knife, 8.25 in.
do not forget yourknife edge guards!
product # cdgs-5-global-vegetable-nakiri retail $99.00 and up sale price $81.95
if you want a high quality knife to pass through generations, you found it.
chefs note: sweet utility knife, cool handle, razor sharp serrated super thin edge, perfectly balanced and amazing cromova steel blade.
global minosharp black/redquantity: this is the new large global minosharp knife sharpener.
made with super strength magnets!
shoulder strap included!
we recommend knife guards to protect the knife edge and the holster.
this steel is hard enough for global knives to keep their edge for a long time, but soft enough so that it is not too difficult to sharpen the knives.
when you get within an inch, the powerful magnets pull the knife firmly to the block.
each handmade knife is  forged from super high quality japanese alloy steel.
small hands or you just desire the "cutting edge knife", this is it!
it has a wicked sharp 7 in. blade.
it simply glides through most any food!
the air pockets along blade are sweet for sticky foods like fat sushi rolls and potatoes.
this is a new kasumi knife sharpener.
this  high percentage of chromium contributes to global's good stain resistance.
choose from several popular sies below!
we love the comfortable ribbed texture and the bright red color!
we like the feel of these extra sharp thin  blades.
our professional 2 step waiters wine opener is a $20.00 value!
they use global knives to prep and slice the sushi.
chefs note: sweet handle, perfectly balanced and amazing cromova steel blade.
choose from several popular sies  below!
quantity: this is the new 4 1/4 inch blade global paring knife, it easily glide through food!
it is a handy little sharpener that's necessary to avoid scratching the titanium or polish on any high quality knife.
we recommend knife guards to protect the knife  edge and the holster.
seals with 3 sided commercial grade zipper and latches closed with 2 durable clips.
the edge that it holds remains throughout heavy use.
chefs note: sweet knife set, cool handles,  razor sharp, super thin edge, perfectly balanced and amazing cromova steel  blade.
if you want a high  quality knife to pass through generations, you found it.
we like the feel of these extra sharp thin blades.
chefs note: sweet knife, cool angle and comfortable handle, razor sharp, super thin edge, perfectly balanced and amazing cromova steel blade.
sale price $164.95 this is the new global stainless steel knife block.
this steel is hard enough for global knives to keep their edge  for a long time, but soft enough so that it is not too difficult to sharpen the  knives.
bonus: free offers above  & below!
extra fine waterstones will quickly sharpen your amazing global knives without scratching.
this is the new 8 3/4 inch serrated blade global bread knife, it easily glide through crusty bread, cakes, sandwiches and more!
bonus: free offer below, buy 8 knives with free bonus item and add the free  knife to your cart!
you will too,  or just send them back!
sharpening steel (or smaller), boning knife, paring and tourne knives, a  thermometer, tongs and more!
it includes a 3.5 in paring knife, 5 in.
knife holder $219.95 quantity: product # cdg45-global-ceramic-sharpener-9.5in retail $169.00 and up sale price $124.95 this is the new 9 1/2 inch global ceramic knife sharpener.
a stainless steel holder is also available.
first, it is a far more precise than using a tang and a bolster.
chefs  note: sweet knife, cool handle, razor sharp, super thin edge, perfectly  balanced and amazing cromova steel blade.
the cro in cromova 18 stands for chromium and the 18 is the  percentage of chromium in the steel.
this amazing knife holder comes in a gift box.
smooth blad is also available below.
you must purchase $250.00 or more of global cutlery and add this item to your cart!
sharpening steel (or smaller), boning knife, paring and tourne knives, a thermometer, tongs and more!
replacement shaft is also available below.
this is the new 10 inch blade global yanagi sashimi knife, it easily  glide through fish and other meats!
this high percentage of chromium  contributes to global's good stain resistance.
see free offers above & below!
it has a 5.25 in. blade!
great as a trivet for hot pots.
it is also called a "knife  scabbard" as used by escoffier.
the cro in cromova 18  stands for chromium and the 18 is the percentage of chromium in the steel.
it also includes a cleaning block (small harder stone for removing metal accumulations and keeps the stone flat).
chefs note: sweet knife, cool handle, razor sharp, super thin edge, perfectly  balanced and amazing cromova steel blade.
the mo and va in cromova 18 stand for molybdenum and vanadium.
this is the new 3.5 and 4 inch blade global paring knives, it easily  glide through food!
chef notes: we like the feel of these knives and the extra sharp thin blades.
we like the feel of this beauty and the extra sharp thin blade.
free wine opener - blackquantity: receive a bonus global birds beak peeling knife for free with $250.00 purchase of global cutlery ($250.00 or more)!
you will love this stone!
holds up to 7 large knives (knives are not included).
this is the new 2 piece global knife set.
global santoku, hollow ground $91.95quantity: this is the new 6.5 inch blade global cleaver!
the majority of the global knives are sharpened or ground on both sides of the blade like western style knives.
it includes a 3.5 in paring knife, 6 in.
chefs note: sweet chef knife, cool handle, razor sharp,  super thin edge, perfectly balanced and amazing cromova steel blade.
gsf-49 $55.95 quantity: global  utility knife, 6 in.
chefs favorite pizza supplies!
this holster is black (pictured in red only to show it holding knives).
care should be taken to keep your global knives stain and rust free.
features; the two most innovative features of global knives are their edge and the way they are balanced.
quantity: global paring knife 4 in.
this is the new 10 inch blade global yanagi sashimi knife, it easily glide through fish and other meats!
the very powerful magnets are pressed into the super hard rock maple.
these global hw chefs knives features nice hefty wide blades!
slicing knife $92.95quantity: our kasumi japanese whetstone is made in seki city japan.
click here for black & blue knife guards....