get 5 extra entries into each stocking stuff with fluff  giveaway by grabbing the button above and displaying it on your homepage  (sidebar or footer)before
your water should be ice cold to start.
add just enough water to make a dough ball  that isn’t too sticky.
homemade pie crust is super easy to make.
it’s also very lightweight and easy to cut with.
disclosure: i took the pledge and spread the word while  participating in a campaign for take me fishing andblog friendly pr.
what a lot of people don’t know is that the funds raised from the sale of fishing licenses goes to support natural resource conservation efforts.
posted in wordless wednesday | tagged funny cartoon, grammar  cartoon, humor, wordless wednesday levi says “take me fishing” published november 29, 2011 |  by lifewithlevi i loooooooooove to go fishing.
they are rust-proof and have no metallic smell or taste.
just be mindful that you’re chopping frozen butter, which is much harder than room temperature or refrigerated butter (aka, be careful with your knife).
you can use your regular knife to chop it up into small  pieces.
want to win a ceramic shenzhen knife like the one i used to chop my butter in the recipe above?
theseceramic knives are made of an advanced ceramic calledzirconia, the second hardest material known to man next to diamond.
the  ceramic blade doesn’t stick to the butter, which is important since i  want to cut through it as quickly as possible without touching it to get it off  the knife (that transfers heat, which will make the butter melt.)
allow it to chill in the refrigerator for at least one hour, up to 12 hours.
this recipe is supposed to make one 9” pie crust, but i find that it makes one nice bottom crust, and just enough for a very loose lattice on top.
you can use your regular knife to chop it up into small pieces.
who better to share it with than  the center of my life?
flour your work surface and quickly knead your pie crust dough until it starts to smooth out.
get 5 extra entries into each stocking stuff with fluff giveaway by grabbing the button above and displaying it on your homepage (sidebar or footer)before the event starts on december 5th.
for halloween costumes and fancy dress ideas visit fancydressball
shenzhen ceramic knives can be used by anyone for most slicing and cutting needs.
want to win a ceramic shenzhen knife like the one  i used to chop my butter in the recipe above?
i recently took the angler’s legacy pledge, which involves sharing my  love of fishing with one new person each year.
frozen butter makes great pie crust .
just leave me a comment on this post telling me where i can see it.
this recipe  is supposed to make one 9” pie crust, but i find that it makes one nice  bottom crust, and just enough for a very loose lattice on top.
jason was also in charge of the most important part – taking pictures!
theseceramic knives are made of an  advanced ceramic calledzirconia, the second hardest material known to man next  to diamond.
tagged bass pro shops, fishing,  fishing gear, take me fishing, toddler fishing the secret to a flaky pie crust published november 28, 2011 | by  lifewithlevi the secret to a flaky pie crust is all in the butter.
the cheese grater method use a dishtowel or potholder to hold the butter as you grate it on your  cheese grater’s largest setting.
once your butter is chopped into small cubes, place it back in the freezer  for a minute or two.
the event starts on december 5th.
as you can imagine, you don’t need a cheese grater to get small chunks of butter.
drinking beer on a boatdoes do some good!
as little piles of butter flakes build up, use a knife to transfer them onto a plate and stick them back in the freezer.
allow it to  chill in the refrigerator for at least one hour, up to 12 hours.
one of the best parts about fishing is that it can be a fairly inexpensive  hobby.
win your own “take me fishing”
continue this process until  the whole stick of butter has been grated.
upcoming cloth diaper event published  november 28, 2011 | by lifewithlevi are you ready to have a very fluffy christmas?
there are two methods to getting the butter just right for your homemade pie crust.
in fact, it’s one of the things jason
after your butter has been mixed in, slowly add your cold water to the mixture, 1 tablespoon at a time.
i can’t wait to get back out to the water in the spring with jason and levi.
this will help prevent melting from the  warmth of your hands.
jen’s flaky pie crust ingredients 1/2 c unsalted butter (1 stick), frozen 1/2 c water, chilled 1 tsp.
(i usually  skip this step and my pies still turn out great.)
as i mentioned before, there are two methods of doing this.
we have a lake right by our house, so of  course i couldn’t wait for the chance to take levi on his first fishing  trip.
of course, there was no beer for levi and i – just some great gear frombass pro shops and a gorgeous minnesota lake.
one of the best parts about fishing is that it can be a fairly inexpensive hobby.
i do love it for other cooking needs, like slicing vegetables  and meat.
this will help prevent melting from the warmth of your hands.
the stocking stuff with  fluff cloth diaper event is coming soon!
posted  in mommy posts, reviews & giveaways |
the secret to a flaky pie crust is all in the butter.
grab your bowl of dry ingredients and your butter.
with so many lakes in the area, i know that next summer, when levi’s  a bit older, we’ll spend even more time fishing, especially out on our  pontoon boat.
there are two methods to getting the butter just right for your homemade  pie crust.
sugar (optional) directions
as  i mentioned before, there are two methods of doing this.
we have a lake right by our house, so of course i couldn’t wait for the chance to take levi on his first fishing trip.
and your butter should be frozen.
he held levi while i cast the  line, then brought him over so he could “help” me fish.
word of caution – small round bobbers are a choking hazard for curious toddlers.
of course, there was no beer for levi and i – just some great gear  frombass pro shops and a gorgeous minnesota lake.
your mixing bowl should be chilled.
they do require a little bit of extra care, and technically, you’re not supposed to use them to slice frozen foods.
disclosure: i took the pledge and spread the word while participating in a campaign for take me fishing andblog friendly pr.
in a chilled mixing bowl, combine the flour, salt, and sugar.
place the bowl back in the refrigerator.
more important than the cost savings for a family outing, though, are the  lifelong memories i’ll get to share with my son.
the key to getting your pie crust to turn out nice and light and flaky is in keeping everything cold.
more important than the cost savings for a family outing, though, are the lifelong memories i’ll get to share with my son.
(i usually skip this step and my pies still turn out great.)
it’s helpful if you chill your hands before working  with the dough.
just head on over to my  current giveaways page to enter.
and i did on our honeymoon.
with so many lakes in the area, i know that next summer, when levi’s a bit older, we’ll spend even more time fishing, especially out on our pontoon boat.
i like to use my chopping knife from shenzhen knives for this step.
i couldn’t resist posting this cartoon.
lightly flour the dough ball and cover it with plastic wrap.
as an anglers’ legacy ambassador, i pledge to share my love of fishing with at least one new person each year; to pass on traditional skills and earned knowledge; to pay forward the thrill of fishing with friends and family, my love of the great outdoors and my commitment to a healthy environment; and to give back what someone once gave me – the special gift of fishing.
it’s helpful if you chill your hands before working with the dough.
i was able to teach levi about all the cool gear involved in fishing, like  this coolshakespeare ugly stik rod & reel combo.
flour your work surface and quickly knead your pie crust dough until it  starts to smooth out.
i was still able to slice through my butter, since butter doesn’t have much water content so it doesn’t freeze completely solid.
ingredients directions in a chilled mixing bowl, combine the flour, salt, and sugar.
i’ll show you both ways here.
who better to share it with than the center of my life?
it’s  also very lightweight and easy to cut with.
your mixing  bowl should be chilled.
after your butter has been mixed in, slowly add your cold water to the  mixture, 1 tablespoon at a time.
are you ready to have a very fluffy christmas?
the ceramic blade doesn’t stick to the butter, which is important since i want to cut through it as quickly as possible without touching it to get it off the knife (that transfers heat, which will make the butter melt.)
in fact, it’s one of the things jason and i did on our honeymoon.
i loooooooooove to go fishing.
take your butter out of the freezer and chop it into tiny little pieces.
add just enough water to make a dough ball that isn’t too sticky.
minnesota is the land of 10,000+ lakes, so it’s no surprise that  fishing is a big sport around here.
they do require a  little bit of extra care, and technically, you’re not supposed to use  them to slice frozen foods.
add the butter to the dry ingredients by “cutting in” – adding the butter a little at a time and using a knife or spatula to cut it apart as you mix it.
as little piles of butter flakes build up, use a knife to transfer them  onto a plate and stick them back in the freezer.
i do love it for other cooking needs, like slicing vegetables and meat.
word of caution  – small round bobbers are a choking hazard for curious toddlers.
place the  bowl back in the refrigerator.
$100 gift card to bass pro shops (may be used online) takemefishing photo frame info, tips and tricks on best practices for boating, fishing and  conservation with kids.
all you need are 3-4 ingredients:  flour, butter, salt, and sugar (optional).
i was still able to slice through my butter, since  butter doesn’t have much water content so it doesn’t freeze  completely solid.
just leave  me a comment on this post telling me where i can see it.
that’s right, frozen.
i recently took the angler’s legacy pledge, which involves sharing my love of fishing with one new person each year.
i was thanked with a promotional gift pack, all opinions are my own.
just head on over to my current giveaways page to enter.
for great gift ideas check out: barnes and noble coupons for health & wellness info, check out alltreatment.comcheck out the stylish range of day dresses at freemans designed by munchkin land designs | custom artwork designed by epoch public relations & marketing copyright © 2012.
minnesota is the land of 10,000+ lakes, so it’s no surprise that fishing is a big sport around here.
the material’s properties make it particularly resistant to wear and tear, which means that aceramic blade can hold its edge much longer than a steel blade without the need for re-sharpening as often as steel knives.
as you can imagine, you don’t need a cheese grater to get small  chunks of butter.
jason came out to the lake with us to help.
what a lot of people don’t know is that the funds raised from the  sale of fishing licenses goes to support natural resource conservation efforts.
the cheese grater method use a dishtowel or potholder to hold the butter as you grate it on your cheese grater’s largest setting.
continue this process until the whole stick of butter has been grated.
win your own “take me fishing” prize pack!
just head on over to my current giveaways page to enter!
posted in  cloth diapers, reviews & giveaways | tagged bonus entries for giveaway,  cloth diaper giveaway, cloth diapers, stocking stuff with fluff ←  older posts
here in mn, you can buy a family fishing license, which saves on the  cost of buying individual licenses for everyone (not that levi needs one at his  age yet), worms are cheap, and you can pick up a rod, reel, hooks, and other  basics for minimal cost at outdoor stores likebass pro shops.
you can freeze your pie crusts to use later or use immediately for a delicious, flaky treat.
once your butter is chopped into small cubes, place it back in the freezer for a minute or two.
the material’s properties make it particularly resistant to wear and  tear, which means that aceramic blade can hold its edge much  longer than a steel blade without the need for re-sharpening as often as steel  knives.
as an anglers’ legacy ambassador, i pledge to share my love  of fishing with at least one new person each year; to pass on  traditional skills and earned knowledge; to pay forward the thrill of  fishing with friends and family, my love of the great outdoors and my commitment to a healthy environment; and to give back what someone  once gave me – the special gift of fishing.
posted in cooking | tagged cooking, flaky pie crust, holiday  cooking, homemade pie crust recipe, how to make a flaky pie crust, pie crust  secret it took calvin and hobbes for me to understand occupy wall street #ows published november 28, 2011 | by lifewithlevi posted in mommy posts | tagged #ows, calvin and hobbes, occupy  wallstreet, polical cartoon have a very fluffy christmas:
jason was  also in charge of the most important part – taking pictures!
i was  thanked with a promotional gift pack, all opinions are my own.
all you need are 3-4 ingredients: flour, butter, salt, and sugar (optional).
here in mn, you can buy a family fishing license, which saves on the cost of buying individual licenses for everyone (not that levi needs one at his age yet), worms are cheap, and you can pick up a rod, reel, hooks, and other basics for minimal cost at outdoor stores likebass pro shops.
he was pretty fascinated with the different bobbers, too.
he held levi while i cast the line, then brought him over so he could “help” me fish.
published november 30, 2011 | by lifewithlevi i couldn’t resist posting this cartoon.
i was able to teach levi about all the cool gear involved in fishing, like this coolshakespeare ugly stik rod & reel combo.
more about shenzhen knives: shenzhen ceramic knives can be used by anyone for most  slicing and cutting needs.
we’ll have to make good on the pledge – someone has to take photos of all of us fishing together, right?
add the butter to the  dry ingredients by “cutting in” – adding the butter a little  at a time and using a knife or spatula to cut it apart as you mix it.
the key to getting your pie crust to turn out nice and light and flaky is  in keeping everything cold.
the stocking stuff with fluff cloth diaper event is coming soon!
i can’t wait to  get back out to the water in the spring with jason and levi.
designed by munchkin land designs.
roll out your pie crust on a generously floured work surface.
just be mindful that you’re chopping frozen butter, which is much  harder than room temperature or refrigerated butter (aka, be careful with your  knife).
you can freeze  your pie crusts to use later or use immediately for a delicious, flaky treat.
we’ll have  to make good on the pledge – someone has to take photos of all of us  fishing together, right?