it can slip off the food you're  cutting and easily cut your fingers instead.
knives with wood handles deteriorate more quickly when cleaned in the dishwasher.
i have several utility knives in my kitchen as 'extra' knives.
slowly draw the knife down the length of the steel, pulling the knife back so the entire blade, from base to tip, moves against the steel, as if you were slicing off pieces of the steel.
finally, learn how to use your good knives and care for them!
make sure you sharpen each side the same number of times to retain the knife's balance.
knives with wood  handles deteriorate more quickly when cleaned in the dishwasher.
choose a knife  that feels good and balanced in your hand.
this means that the blade should go all the way through the handle for the best wear and stability.
now go to the next page to learn how to use a knife properly.
make sure you sharpen each side the same number  of times to retain the knife's balance.
the knife should have a fulltang.
there are some basic safety  tips and hints about using a knife properly.
free busy cooks newsletter!
boning knife this type of knife has a more flexible blade to  curve around meat and bone.
most experts recommend a serrated knife that has pointed serrations instead of wavy serrations for better control and longer knife life.
both are good choices.
i know experts  recommend not using a dishwasher for washing knives, but i do it all the time.
i'm not keen on washing sharp blades by hand.
only use a ceramic knife on a cutting board - never on another ceramic, plastic or glass surface.
- boning knife this type of knife has a more flexible blade to curve around meat and bone.
you must use a sawing motion  when using a serrated knife.
i have two bread knives in my kitchen - a long 10" knife that's great for cutting whole loaves, and a 6" knife perfect for cutting sandwich buns.
- privacy policy - your ad choices ©2012 about.com.
only use a ceramic knife on a  cutting board - never on another ceramic, plastic or glass surface.
slowly draw the knife  down the length of the steel, pulling the knife back so the entire blade, from  base to tip, moves against the steel, as if you were slicing off pieces of the  steel.
bread knife bread knives are usually serrated.
first of all, check recommendations from sources likeconsumer reports and cook's illustrated.
these knives don't need sharpening for years, and should be  sharpened by an expert when they do wear down.
both are good  choices.
this long, round object sharpens knives by straightening out the edge.
a good knife should feel heavy and solid.
see more about: - super bowl snacks - cook boneless chicken breasts - chicken - quick!
then  buy the best quality knives that you can afford, that have no gaps at the joint  where the blade and handle meet, with a finely ground blade.
it is ideal for peeling and coring fruits and vegetables, cutting small objects, slicing, and other hand tasks.
previous next related articles - kitchen cutlery buying guide – guide to buying knives and cutlery for... - kitchen cutlery buying guide – guide to buying knives and cutlery for... - granton edge - definition of a knife's granton edge - top 3 chef's knives - best six-inch chef's knives - top 6" chef'...
it is ideal for peeling and  coring fruits and vegetables, cutting small objects, slicing, and other hand  tasks.
you must use a sawing motion when using a serrated knife.
hold the knife in your dominant hand and the steel in the other, with the steel point pressed into a solid waist-high surface.
- easy chicken in the crock pot - healthy crock pot recipes by category - how to cook - kitchen safety - how to use a kitchen knife - recipes and articles - how to cook and email class - breakfast lunch and dinner - fastest and cheap recipes - crockpot recipes - easiest and healthy recipes - five ingredients or less - recipes by ingredient - everyday and weekend menus - course by course recipes - freezer meals - seasonal recipes - entertaining and favorites - kitchen reference - appliance information busy cooks - about.com - food & drink - busy cooks - how to cook and email class - how to cook - how to use a kitchen knife also from about.com: - most popular - latest articles - rss - calorie count - food & recipe database - advertise on about.com - our story - news & events - work at about - sitemap - all topics - reprints - help - write for about - user agreement - ethics policy - patent info.
these knives will not  stain and holds a sharp edge longer than other steel types.
there are five basic types of kitchen knives: - chef's knife a chef's knife is usually the largest knife in the kitchen, with a wide blade that is 8" to 10" long.
do this five or six times , then rinse the  knife off and dry immediately.
this long, round object sharpens knives by straightening out  the edge.
a part of the new york times company.
paring knife paring knives are generally 2-1/2-4" in  length.
these knives will not stain and holds a sharp edge longer than other steel types.
do this five or six times , then rinse the knife off and dry immediately.
- about.com - food & drink - busy cooks busy cooks search free busy cooks newsletter!
these knives don't need sharpening for years, and should be sharpened by an expert when they do wear down.
most experts  recommend a serrated knife that has pointed serrations instead of wavy  serrations for better control and longer knife life.
take a look atusing a steel to see how to correctly sharpen your knives on a steel.
take a look atusing a steel to see how to correctly sharpen your  knives on a steel.
choose a knife that feels good and balanced in your hand.
hold the  knife base at the top of the steel at a 20 degree angle.
sign up - busy cooks - cooking 101 - quick and easy recipes - shortcuts discuss in my forum how to use a kitchen knife
- paring knife paring knives are generally 2-1/2-4" in length.
finally, learn how to use your good knives and  care for them!
ceramic knives are fairly new.
utility knives utility knives are longer than paring knives but  smaller than chef's knives, usually around 5-8" long.
a steel should be part of your  knife collection.
knives are made out of several types of material.
ceramic knives are  fairly new.
first of all, check  recommendations from sources likeconsumer reports and cook's illustrated.
i have two bread knives in  my kitchen - a long 10" knife that's great for cutting whole loaves, and a  6" knife perfect for cutting sandwich buns.
there are five basic types of kitchen knives: chef's knife a chef's knife is usually the largest knife in the  kitchen, with a wide blade that is 8" to 10" long.
by linda larsen, about.com guide see more about: - how to cook - kitchen safety - how to use a kitchen knife a knife can be your best friend during food preparation, or it can cause serious injury - depending on your skill and what you know about knife safety.
then buy the best quality knives that you can afford, that have no gaps at the joint where the blade and handle meet, with a finely ground blade.
high carbon stainless steel is the most expensive and will last the longest.
sign up discuss in my forum how to use a kitchen knife by linda larsen, about.com guide see more about: kitchen safety how to use a kitchen knife a knife can be your best  friend during food preparation, or it can cause serious injury - depending on  your skill and what you know about knife safety.
- bread knife bread knives are usually serrated.
hold the knife base at the top of the steel at a 20 degree angle.
- how to use a kitchen knife - lessons about using a knife - kitchen safety k... linda larsen busy cooks guide - sign up for my newsletter related searches sandwich buns bread knives paring knives quality knives flexible blade ground blade explore busy cooks must reads most popular - valentine's day - best winter recipes - healthy crockpot recipes - st. patrick's day recipes - start with ...
high carbon stainless  steel is the most expensive and will last the longest.
a good knife  should feel heavy and solid.
sharpening knives a knife that is not sharp is dangerous.
they are also called  sandwich knives because they are just the right side for slicing meats and  cheeses.
this means that the blade should go all the way through the handle for the best  wear and stability.
knife handles are made of wood or a plastic composite.
hold the knife in your dominant hand and the steel in the  other, with the steel point pressed into a solid waist-high surface.
there are some basic safety tips and hints about using a knife properly.
they are also called sandwich knives because they are just the right side for slicing meats and cheeses.
the only difference is in cleaning and maintenance.
it can slip off the food you're cutting and easily cut your fingers instead.
a steel should be part of your knife collection.
i know experts recommend not using a dishwasher for washing knives, but i do it all the time.
repeat on the other side.
the most often used knife in the kitchen.
- utility knives utility knives are longer than paring knives but smaller than chef's knives, usually around 5-8" long.