these knives are usually folded the  way japanese swords were once made for samurai.
i, on the other hand, have probably owned at least five full-size chef knives in my career — until i decided on the one i use the most now.
this blade is also super  thin, which makes it not a good knife to use for chopping big items like bones  and the sort (i use a wusthof for those purposes).
furi: alright, i’m putting this one here because many  people tell me they like these knives.
plastic,  rubber, stainless steel or treated wood are good.
it is  japanese-made, which is made by the mentioned folding of the carbon-steel to  make the blade super hard and makes it sharp as well.
as a professional, some of us have that one trusty knife that we got at the beginning of our career and feel that is the only knife they will ever need.
however, it is not the folded steel as many think — it is stainless steel.
this is to balance the knife and give it durability.
i’m guessing these aren’t too popular in professional kitchens, and i’m not too sure how i would react to seeing one in a professional kitchen.
another option is high-carbon steel (not stainless) which is what many  japanese high-end knives are made out of.
this is to balance the knife and give  it durability.
although there are some who want  professional quality, it is not always necessary to pay $300 for a knife you  are just going to use at home.
they hold a sharp blade pretty well, but the handle, which is metal, can be difficult to get used to.
most home cooks will never need a knife like this, and many chefs neither.
grinding will  shorten the life of your knives, as it takes off a larger amount of metal with  each sharpening.
non-treated wood is not as  good, as it can absorb water and crack or mold.
these knives are usually folded the way japanese swords were once made for samurai.
the first thing to consider is where you’re going to be using  this, at home or in a professional kitchen.
i’d say they are on par  with henckels.
it is japanese-made, which is made by the mentioned folding of the carbon-steel to make the blade super hard and makes it sharp as well.
i hope that helps a few people out with their knife choices.
plastic, rubber, stainless steel or treated wood are good.
before i talk brands, let’s talk about what one should look for in a knife.
here’s a list of knives i have run into and like for different reasons.
make sure they use a whet stone or an oil stone, and that they do not grind their knives.
grinding will shorten the life of your knives, as it takes off a larger amount of metal with each sharpening.
another material that has become slightly popular is ceramic.
next you will want to make sure that you get a proper handle.
as a professional, some of us have that one trusty knife that we got at the  beginning of our career and feel that is the only knife they will ever need.
six-inch is as high as they go, and it retails for about $90.
related links:   life & arts blogs | news blogs  |sports blogs | community blogs gastronomical inspirations knife edge  by christopher tanner monday, may 2, 2011 people often ask me what my favorite chef knife is and what criteria they  should use in looking for a knife.
many times the blade is so hard  though, that if dropped or treated poorly (say, chopping bones), the blade can  crack.
these are continuously rated  the best knives on the market.
furi: alright, i’m putting this one here because many people tell me they like these knives.
i have sort of an obsession with kitchen knives.
so i will concentrate on just the regular chef knife.
however, it  is not the folded steel as many think — it is stainless steel.
most people at home or professionals will want  to seek out a hand-forged, high-carbon stainless steel blade which holds its  sharpness quite well and is pretty durable.
this knife requires a lot of care, but this care will be  rewarded by how amazing this knife is.
this knife stays incredibly sharp and supposedly is well worth the price from what i have seen in tests.
grosenick ready to return view video gostisbehere isn't afraid of no ghosts view video
those of you at home will probably want to send out your knives to be sharpened by a local knife shop or culinary store.
six-inch is as high as they go,  and it retails for about $90.
i hate to admit this, but my chef knife cost me about $400 with a discount, meaning you’ll probably pay about $450 for this knife at home.
share story: print   email +digg +fark +reddit +facebook +del.icio.us +stumbleupon advertisement  &lt;a  href="http://g.adspeed.net/ad.php?do=clk&amp;zid=16060&amp;wd=300&amp;ht=250&amp;pair=as"  target="_top"&gt;&lt;img style="border:0px;"  src="http://g.adspeed.net/ad.php?do=img&amp;zid=16060&amp;wd=300&amp;ht=250&amp;pair=as"  alt="i" width="300"  height="250"/&gt;&lt;/a&gt; poll sales tax on gift cards should be paid...
those of you at home will probably want to send out your knives to be  sharpened by a local knife shop or culinary store.
i hate to admit this, but my chef knife cost me  about $400 with a discount, meaning you’ll probably pay about $450 for  this knife at home.
this knife requires a lot of care, but this care will be rewarded by how amazing this knife is.
others may prefer a 10-inch, 8-inch or 6-inch blade.
henckels: another popular knife, but for some reason, i  don’t like them as much.
this knife stays incredibly sharp and supposedly is  well worth the price from what i have seen in tests.
i prefer a large 12-inch blade, as i have large hands.
blade size is important as well, and the only way you are going to figure out what you like for size is by putting a few knives in your hands and maybe even chopping something — if the store lets you.
a very popular trendy knife made in japan.
these are continuously rated the best knives on the market.
as for pricing, these estimates are for their regular, no frills lines.
i,  on the other hand, have probably owned at least five full-size chef knives in  my career — until i decided on the one i use the most now.
a 10-inch blade will run you about $100,  depending on where you shop.
if there is anything i can do to help anyone in the choice of their knives in the future, please do not hesitate to contact me.
their top-of-the-line extra durable knife with extra long-lasting sharpness is $300.
wusthof: this is a german manufacturer and one of the most  popular and best knives on the market.
non-treated wood is not as good, as it can absorb water and crack or mold.
i could go  into a whole list of knives for you, but that would make my already long posts  quite a bit longer.
when looking at the handle, you  want to make sure that the blade goes all the way through the handle, or as  many call it, a “full tang.”
they are made in australia and everyone’s darling rachael ray is there spokesperson, these are the knives you see here using on her show.
these run about $130 for a 10-inch blade.
then you know your knives are being cared for.
before i talk brands, let’s talk about what one should look for in a  knife.
forgetting the freakout view video people often ask me what my favorite chef knife is and what criteria they should use in looking for a knife.
it is  a good quality knife that will run you about $80.
their top-of-the-line extra durable knife with  extra long-lasting sharpness is $300.
wusthof: this is a german manufacturer and one of the most popular and best knives on the market.
if not dried after use and oiled, the blade may rust as well, so these  knives take a professional hand.
sabatier: well, the french do make a chef knife, and from what i’ve seen, this is the only one i like.
blade size is important as well, and the only way you are going  to figure out what you like for size is by putting a few knives in your hands  and maybe even chopping something — if the store lets you.
most people at home or professionals will want to seek out a hand-forged, high-carbon stainless steel blade which holds its sharpness quite well and is pretty durable.
a 10-inch blade will run you about $100, depending on where you shop.
as for pricing, these estimates are for their regular, no frills  lines.
if there is anything i can do to help  anyone in the choice of their knives in the future, please do not hesitate to  contact me.
if a store doesn’t let you hold the knife, they shouldn’t get to hold your cash.
they hold a sharp blade even longer.
the same qualities go for any of the other types of knives made by these companies, but obviously the prices will be different.
when first purchased.
another option is high-carbon steel (not stainless) which is what many japanese high-end knives are made out of.
here’s a list of knives i have run into and like for different  reasons.
henckels: another popular knife, but for some reason, i don’t like them as much.
many of these companies offer funky handle designs and other frills; frankly, these are for aesthetics and to make more money off of you.
the same  qualities go for any of the other types of knives made by these companies, but  obviously the prices will be different.
if a store  doesn’t let you hold the knife, they shouldn’t get to hold your  cash.
don’t go smaller — those 5-inch blades are just to have a cute knife.
they just don’t seem to hold a blade as long as the wusthof, but they are usually about $5 to $10 cheaper.
as  noted before, it is fragile.
when looking at the handle, you want to make sure that the blade goes all the way through the handle, or as many call it, a “full tang.”
they are made in australia and  everyone’s darling rachael ray is there spokesperson, these are the  knives you see here using on her show.
i’d say they are on par with henckels.
as noted before, it is fragile.
if not dried after use and oiled, the blade may rust as well, so these knives take a professional hand.
most home cooks will never need a knife like this, and many  chefs neither.
the best way, though, is to buy your own whet stone, have the  store teach you how to use it.
they come in a variety of steels, but the stainless steel runs between $150 and $170 depending where you shop.
many of these companies offer funky handle designs and other frills;  frankly, these are for aesthetics and to make more money off of you.
kyocera: a good quality ceramic knife, stays incredibly.
this blade is also super thin, which makes it not a good knife to use for chopping big items like bones and the sort (i use a wusthof for those purposes).
i could go into a whole list of knives for you, but that would make my already long posts quite a bit longer.
i’ve broken a few pairing knives from them and have since switched to my current knives.
they seem to be pushing a  professional line now though (without that god-awful orange handle) with metal  handles which retail between $100 and $130 depending on where you look.
this is a german company as well.
these share the same issues as the folded steel japanese knives, but are even more fragile.
i’m guessing these aren’t  too popular in professional kitchens, and i’m not too sure how i would  react to seeing one in a professional kitchen.
i actually keep two now, as i feel each has its own purpose.
the first thing to consider is where you’re going to be using this, at home or in a professional kitchen.
they seem to be pushing a professional line now though (without that god-awful orange handle) with metal handles which retail between $100 and $130 depending on where you look.
they just don’t seem to hold a blade as  long as the wusthof, but they are usually about $5 to $10 cheaper.
don’t go smaller — those 5-inch  blades are just to have a cute knife.
the best way, though, is to buy your own whet stone, have the store teach you how to use it.
it is a good quality knife that will run you about $80.
my last selection is the knife that i use.
this is a  german company as well.
many times the blade is so hard though, that if dropped or treated poorly (say, chopping bones), the blade can crack.
mac: pretty popular knives in the professional kitchen set.
others may prefer  a 10-inch, 8-inch or 6-inch blade.
they hold  a sharp blade pretty well, but the handle, which is metal, can be difficult to  get used to.
i used to use their slicer.
these share  the same issues as the folded steel japanese knives, but are even more fragile.
make sure they use a whet  stone or an oil stone, and that they do not grind their knives.
sabatier: well, the french do make a chef knife, and from what  i’ve seen, this is the only one i like.
i’ve broken a few pairing knives from them  and have since switched to my current knives.
although there are some who want professional quality, it is not always necessary to pay $300 for a knife you are just going to use at home.
they  come in a variety of steels, but the stainless steel runs between $150 and $170  depending where you shop.