overall impression ceramic knives are very different than steel knives in handling as well as function and they should be used only for slicing fruits, vegetables and boneless meats.
their knives are available in choice of five boxed sets.
we hope to make zx  kitchen the next revolution in food preparation.
the zx knives also have a safety feature, the shape  of the handle keeps your fingers away from the blade and the point of the blade  is blunt.
sharper than traditional steel cutlery, our ceramic knives slice flawlessly for five years with no need for re-sharpening.
in order to help  consumers make the right knife buying choices, i will add any updates or  comments to this review.
if this were the case, it would reduce usage somewhat.
this was most unfortunate and very disappointing.
we found the zx ceramic 5" utility knife most useful for slicing ham and boneless meats and cutting vegetables for salads.
review samples were provided by the manufacturer.
if you're new to ceramic, the lighter weight is very noticeable compared to steel knives and one might think it would be difficult to control such a knife, but not so.
about the company and related resources zx kitchen black ceramic knives photo © zx kitchen zx  kitchen™ manufactures three sizes of black ceramic kitchen knives, as  well as a handy cutting board.
they also require much more care than  steel knives in terms of use or storage and you cannot sharpen a ceramic knife,  unless the sharpener is specifically designed for use with this type of knife.
steel kitchen knives vs ceramic knives - understanding the differences compare prices of ceramic knives compare prices of knives kitchen knife buying tips what's a knife bevel?
here's my dilemma in rating this review.
knives were always used with either a wooden or plastic cutting board.
the  ceramic blades are black, so you don't need to worry about discoloration and  that also makes them stand out from the average ceramic knife.
whatever the  cause, it remains a mystery.
the drop in rating is mainly due to the possible durability issue.
what is a ceramic knife?
we found the zx ceramic 5" utility knife most useful  for slicing ham and boneless meats and cutting vegetables for salads.
secondly because even with this kind of care, the utility knife sustained a small chip about 1.25" from the point end, during this test.
by lack of knowledge, i mean these knives are supposed to be  able to slice vegetables, but is that limited to soft vegetables only?
zx kitchen™ has sold thousands of  knives since we launched the company in 2011, and we have received overwhelming
zx does offer a lifetime  warranty on their knives.
in order to help consumers make the right knife buying choices, i will add any updates or comments to this review.
i'd also love to see other consumer reviews on these zx knives; a short review can be added to this page.
they were not used near bone or with frozen foods, nor were they dropped.
zx does offer a lifetime warranty on their knives.
these knives cannot be sharpened with typical knife sharpening tools; they must be sharpened by the manufacturer.
product despcription zx kitchen black ceramic knives precision set (boxed) - set includes 5" utility knife; 3-1/2" paring knife - made from zirconium oxide - blades are sharper than steel; superior sharpness for 5 years without sharpening - stain resistant black ceramic - lightweight, easy to handle - rust-proof; no discoloration; no metallic taste - easy to clean - sleek design - comfort grip - safety handle - lifetime warranty - learn more from the manufacturer; read ceramic knife care information how the zx kitchen ceramic knives performed zx kitchen black ceramic knives photo © zx kitchen january 6,
they were also handwashed and dried - something i recommend with any sharp knife, and immediately returned to their storage box.
these knives cannot be sharpened with typical knife sharpening tools;  they must be sharpened by the manufacturer.
overall impression ceramic knives are very different than steel  knives in handling as well as function and they should be used only for slicing  fruits, vegetables and boneless meats.
there could also have been a little grit on the unpeeled potatoes and maybe this caused the ceramic to chip.
- privacy policy - your ad choices ©2012 about.com.
whatever the cause, it remains a mystery.
for more information, please see our ethics policy.
these knives are well balanced and allow precise cutting.
if this  were the case, it would reduce usage somewhat.
ceramic knives are a different breed of knife altogether and one that professional chefs love for the long-lasting sharpness and superior cutting abilities.
in all fairness to this brand and without knowing the exact cause of the chip, i gave this review a moderate rating.
update - response received from zx kitchen knives: “we so appreciate mariette’s review of zx kitchen’s black ceramic knives.
i like the feel, look, material construction, design and sharpness of these knives.
we hope to make zx kitchen the next revolution in food preparation.
not noticed immediately, we assumed  it might have happened when we sliced through hard raw potatoes, turnips or  carrots.
splurge or save on flatware?
and we used the zx knives for fruits, vegetables, processed or boneless meats.
first because ceramic knives need ultimate  care and that includes proper storage.
it slices  through tomatoes with incredible ease and we were able to get extremely thin  slices with no effort.
i'd also love to see other consumer reviews on these  zx knives; a short review can be added to this page.
there could also have been a little grit on  the unpeeled potatoes and maybe this caused the ceramic to chip.
save money - how to set the table - humidifiers - faq's
i point out this special care for two reasons.
by nature, ceramic knives are stronger  than steel, but are more brittle and can break.
tools related articles - henckels knife blocks - safe & handy storage - just handle it! -
the best of care was given to these zx ceramic knives and that is crucial with any ceramic brand.
at first glance, the workmanship of these knives is quite evident and they are anything but typical ceramic.
i point out  this special care for two reasons.
the small paring knife peels an apple as easily as using a peeler and coring apple quarters requires little effort.
the knives are really beautiful to  look at, lightweight and very comfortable with soft-feel nonslip handles.
by lack of knowledge, i mean these knives are supposed to be able to slice vegetables, but is that limited to soft vegetables only?
they were also handwashed and dried - something i recommend with any sharp  knife, and immediately returned to their storage box.
their knives are available in choice of five  boxed sets.
the zx kitchen™ ceramic knives tested offer the  consumer very comfortable, lightweight and razor-sharp knives for slicing  fruits, vegetables and boneless meats at comparable prices.
a part of the new york times company.
every time - save energy;
confirmation of usage will be requested from the manufacturer and comments posted.
by category - cutlery - knives - kitchenware - chef's tools - cutting boards - large appliances - small appliances - air, water & recycling - brands, mfrs & retailers - canning & home preserving - consumer awareness - cookware - cooling & heating - gifts & hosting - glossary - essential home products - kitchen & tableware - laundry & fabric care - store, clean & organize - vacuum & floor care housewares / appliances - about.com - home & garden - housewares / appliances - kitchen & tableware - cutlery & knives - knife reviews - zx kitchen ceramic knives review - most popular - latest articles - rss - advertise on about.com - our story - news & events - work at about - sitemap - all topics - reprints - help - write for about - user agreement - ethics policy - patent info.
the ceramic blades are black, so you don't need to worry about discoloration and that also makes them stand out from the average ceramic knife.
these knives are well balanced and allow precise
by zx kitchen ceo george marks my thoughts: i was very glad to receive the above response from the  manufacturer.
the knife handles are warm and the soft  feel and shape of these knives make it very easy to control when cutting or  slicing.
not noticed immediately, we assumed it might have happened when we sliced through hard raw potatoes, turnips or carrots.
these were the hardest foods and during slicing you could hear the  blade against the cutting board.
go to main cutlery & knives page go to home page
the drop in  rating is mainly due to the possible durability issue.
we would love for mariette to try our steak knives, as slicing  meats has never been easier.
by zx kitchen ceo george marks my thoughts: i was very glad to receive the above response from the manufacturer.
sign up - housewares / appliances - appliances - house essentials - cooling & heating discuss in my forum zx kitchen black ceramic knives precision set review home test of zx kitchen ceramic knives about.com rating 4 star rating
sharper than traditional steel  cutlery, our ceramic knives slice flawlessly for five years with no need for  re-sharpening.
these were the hardest foods and during slicing you could hear the blade against the cutting board.
- how to use a kitchen knife - lessons about using a knife - kitchen safety k... - kitchen cutlery buying guide – guide to buying knives and cutlery for... - saber knives - saber knives high-quality german steel knives reviews - kitchen cutlery buying guide – guide to buying knives and cutlery for... - laguiole cheese knives mariette mifflin housewares / appliances guide - sign up for my newsletter related searches ceramic cutlery ceramic knives cutlery tools rust proof steel knives kitchen trade explore housewares / appliances must reads most popular - valentine's day 2012 tips & gifts - the best appliance
we were eager to take zx kitchen™ knives for a test, to see how handy these ceramic cutlery tools would be in an average kitchen.
zx kitchen obviously stands by its products.
update - response received from zx  kitchen knives: “we so appreciate mariette’s review of zx  kitchen’s black ceramic knives.
steel kitchen knives vs  ceramic knives - understanding the differences compare prices of ceramic  knives compare prices of knives
learn more from the manufacturer; read ceramic knife care information how the zx kitchen ceramic knives performed zx kitchen black ceramic knives photo © zx kitchen january  6, 2012 at first glance, the workmanship of these knives is quite evident
a well-designed ceramic knife with a comfortable  handle is easy to control.
about the company and related resources zx kitchen black ceramic knives photo © zx kitchen zx kitchen™ manufactures three sizes of black ceramic kitchen knives, as well as a handy cutting board.
i like the feel,  look, material construction, design and sharpness of these knives.
the small paring knife peels an apple as easily as using a  peeler and coring apple quarters requires little effort.
the knife handles are warm and the soft feel and shape of these knives make it very easy to control when cutting or slicing.
because they are ceramic, in the rare occasion  that one of our products does not live up to the standards of our customers or  accidentally chips due to normal wear and tear, we will always send a  replacement or offer a full refund."
ceramic knives would never replace your regular steelkitchen knives, but rather enhance your knife selection, providing options for the slicing or cutting task at hand.
it slices through tomatoes with incredible ease and we were able to get extremely thin slices with no effort.
first because ceramic knives need ultimate care and that includes proper storage.
the zx kitchen™ ceramic knives tested offer the consumer very comfortable, lightweight and razor-sharp knives for slicing fruits, vegetables and boneless meats at comparable prices.
although the point of the knife is blunt, you can gently slice a  tomato with ease.
a well-designed ceramic knife with a comfortable handle is easy to control.
a look at kitchen knife handles - granton edge - definition of a knife's granton edge - reviews of kitchen cutlery knives - knife steel - what's a knife steel?
in all fairness to this brand  and without knowing the exact cause of the chip, i gave this review a moderate  rating.
the zx knives also have a safety feature, the shape of the handle keeps your fingers away from the blade and the point of the blade is blunt.
was it user error, an (isolated) defect in this particular knife or a lack of knowledge, that caused the utility knife to chip during testing.
they were not used near bone or with frozen foods, nor were they  dropped.
we would love for mariette to try our steak knives, as slicing meats has never been easier.
the knives are really beautiful to look at, lightweight and very comfortable with soft-feel nonslip handles.
although the point of the knife is blunt, you can gently slice a tomato with ease.
secondly because even with this  kind of care, the utility knife sustained a small chip about 1.25" from  the point end, during this test.
zx kitchen™ has sold thousands of knives since we launched the company in 2011, and we have received overwhelming praise for the quality and durability of our products.
see more about: - type of humidifier - before you buy a humidifier - top-loading washing machine vs. front-loading: which is bett… - super simple smoothie recipe - caring for your he washer
by nature, ceramic knives are stronger than steel, but are more brittle and can break.
this precision set (boxed) includes very practical kitchen knives: a 3-1/2" paring knife and 5" utility knife.
if you're new to ceramic, the lighter weight is very noticeable  compared to steel knives and one might think it would be difficult to control  such a knife, but not so.
ceramic knives would never replace your regular steelkitchen knives, but rather  enhance your knife selection, providing options for the slicing or cutting task  at hand.
praise for the quality and durability of our products.
user reviews write a review be the first to write a review more about kitchen knives - safe & convenient kitchen knife storage - super slicing with a santoku knife - selecting your first kitchen knives - chef's choice angleselect 4623 knife sharpener review - before you buy kitchen knives - kitchen knife buying tips more about kitchen cutlery &
here's my  dilemma in rating this review.
they also require much more care than steel knives in terms of use or storage and you cannot sharpen a ceramic knife, unless the sharpener is specifically designed for use with this type of knife.
was it user error, an (isolated) defect in this  particular knife or a lack of knowledge, that caused the utility knife to chip  during testing.
be the first to write a review by mariette mifflin, about.com guide see more about: - cutlery - knives - kitchenware - chef's tools - cutting boards zx kitchen black ceramic knives photo © zx kitchen more images (2)
because they are ceramic, in the rare occasion that one of our products does not live up to the standards of our customers or accidentally chips due to normal wear and tear, we will always send a replacement or offer a full refund."
the best of  care was given to these zx ceramic knives and that is crucial with any ceramic  brand.
and they are anything but typical ceramic.
this  precision set (boxed) includes very practical kitchen knives: a 3-1/2"  paring knife and 5" utility knife.
- about.com - home & garden - housewares / appliances housewares / appliances search free housewares / appliances newsletter!
confirmation of usage  will be requested from the manufacturer and comments posted.