the "10"  series steels have an increasing amount of carbon in them as the number  increases and a corresponding degree of wear resistance as well.
manganese improves a steel during the manufacture process and most knives have some fraction of manganese in them.
silicon adds to the strength of a steel and assists in the manufacturing  process.
toughness the ability to  withstand impact and sudden shock forces that may be involved in activities  such as hacking, chopping, throwing or shearing forces encountered through  prying and twisting are what is in view here.
laminated steel laminated  steels attempt to solve the tradeoff between toughness and hardness not through  recipe ingredients but by combining steels that have different strengths into a  single functional unit.
when steel is heated to a high temperature (about 1350 degrees) it begins to  change its molecular structure from a ferrite state to an austenite state (and  thus losing its magnetic properties).
the purpose  for heat treating steel is to modify the mechanical properties of the steel.
write  up of knives, is a measure of the hardness of the steel used on the knife.
at its most basic, steel is essentially iron combined with carbon.
laminated steel laminated steels attempt to solve the tradeoff between toughness and hardness not through recipe ingredients but by combining steels that have different strengths into a single functional unit.
adding too much chromium can contribute to a brittle blade, so a balance must be struck.
so while the knife may have been made to take and keep a very sharp edge (desirable), those properties have also created a very brittle blade (undesirable).
while no such thing may actually exist, this process of discovery has left us with a variety of steels that are well suited to different tasks and are chosen according to the anticipated use.
annealing is the heating and very slow cooling of the steel which results in a  soft, ductile steel that may be easily filed, stamped, etc... to do this the  steel is heated to non-magnetic and then buried in a media such as hardwood ash  or vermiculite which acts as an insulator and will permit the steel to cool  only very slowly, much slower than air cooling.
the harder the steel is the longer the knife will hold its edge.
boron added in small amounts to increase hardenability.
this should be done several times (taking care not to over-heat the steel) and  will result in the even dispersion of the iron and carbon, with a uniform  microstructure inside the steel.
a "stainless" steel blade  can still stain and even rust, although not at the rate a pure carbon steel  blade would as the chromium aids in corrosion resistance.
if cutting  through tough, fibrous material is to be done, then wear resistance will be  critical to edge retention.
the trick is to cool the  blade rapidly enough that martensite is achieved and not something short of  that, such as pearlite.
the purpose of this is  to re-harden the blade to a useful knife hardness.
knives extrema ratio knives fallkniven knives gerber knives ka-bar knives kershaw knives lansky leatherman tools mantis knives ontario knives puma knives sentry solutions sog knives spyderco knives tops knives wenger swiss army zero tolerance knives categories hunting knives knife sharpeners machetes multi-tools pocket knives survival knives tactical knives knives town all about knives bob's knife reviews about knives town contact knives town ordering policies returns shipping policies sitemap links blade steels this simple but informative guide to the basics of steel is limited to the discussion of useful bits which a knife collector could find informative and which would expand in a beneficial way the knowledge of someone in the early stages of knife collecting.
steels 420/420j2 a soft steel and therefore quite tough but not very wear resistant.
however steels at this  level of hardness will also be more difficult to sharpen and will be more  brittle and susceptible to chipping.
toughness is the ability  of the blade to withstand shock and impact without cracking, chipping or  snapping.
ats-34 & 154cm these two  steels are quite similar to each other.
these steels will hold an edge very well yet still retain a  good degree of toughness.
without some knowledge of what good  each of these does, it can feel like trying to read greek.
if you have ever  looked into what steels are made of you may have seen a bewildering set of  elements named as the primary components.
further additions will change the material correspondingly  and in this way the characteristic of the steel is engineered to match its  intended use.
although perhaps counter-intuitive, the toughest blades are  those made from a softer steel which can absorb these forces without damage.
carbon: this is the primary element which is  added to iron to create steel.
what are the elements of steel?
h1 is a non-carbon steel developed to be essentially rust  proof.
in other words it is corrosion resistant as opposed  to corrosion proof.
s30v specifically designed to be a cutlery steel, this steel has excellent  toughness as well as wear resistance, hardness and edge holding.
in other words it is corrosion resistant as opposed to corrosion proof.
1095 is the  default knife steel out of this series (tops tom brown trapper).
a stainless steel with a high vanadium content which can be sharpened to an extremely keen edge.
the manufacture of  knife steel involves the process of normalizing, annealing, quenching and  tempering.
the cold steel  vietnam tomahawk is made from 1055.
the cold steel vietnam tomahawk is made from 1055.
this will permit the martensite to form without cracks and become a stable internal structure.
this should be done several times (taking care not to over-heat the steel) and will result in the even dispersion of the iron and carbon, with a uniform microstructure inside the steel.
knives town   blade shapes   blade grinds    glossary of knife terms   knife lock types   knife handle  materials   lanyards   ceramic knives   which  knife is right for me
getting too hard though is not a good thing as this can result in a brittle blade which chips easily on impact.
once the alloys have been combined they are subjected to heat  (sintering) where the steels self weld together and form a highly pure and  uniform product.
it’s about  more than just making a sharp edge.
higher degrees of chromium added to the mix will enhance this ability.
alloyed steel is a general term indicating a substance in which additional elements have been added beyond those necessary to elevate the material from iron to steel.
steels 420/420j2 a soft steel and therefore quite tough but not very wear  resistant.
h1 is a non-carbon steel developed to be essentially rust proof.
a slow cool will produce a molecular structure that is  coarser and without the high internal stress.
ranges in the mid 50s would represent a softer steel than ones in the upper 50's and some knife steels are hardened into the 60s.
carbon in the right amount allows a blade to be sharpened to a very keen edge and hold it well.
and therefore can acquire a keener  edge.
most knives will have a rockwell hardness (or hrc) displayed as a range in the upper 50 or lower
at its most  basic, steel is essentially iron combined with carbon.
toughness the ability to withstand impact and sudden shock forces that may be involved in activities such as hacking, chopping, throwing or shearing forces encountered through prying and twisting are what is in view here.
here we begin to get into the nuts and bolts of cutlery steel development.
the aus series falls into the same categories as 440 with the good/better/best progression.
the harder  the steel is the longer the knife will hold its edge.
a laminate line may be seen along the edge where the two  steels meet.
chromium added to steel increases the blades hardness and ability to withstand staining and corrosion.
an all around excellent performer and is found on the best production knives.
chromium this is the element which when added creates a stainless steel and is  generally required in an amount of at least 13% to be considered true stainless  steel.
the edge retention of a pocket  knife will be achieved through a different steel than that of a machete and the  medium in which the cutting will be done plays an important role.
inexpensive to manufacture and thus popular on  low end knives, this steel is useful and has it place, but not as a top end  product.
ranges in the mid 50’s would represent a softer steel than ones in the  upper 50's and some knife steels are hardened into the 60’s.
other alloys can also be  added and the presence of these alloys will add characteristics to the material  which are useful according to the purpose for which it is being created.
stainless steel is steel which contains the element chromium in sufficient quantity that the steel takes on a rust resistant property.
bob's knife picks   plain edge or  serrated copyright © 2011 knives town, llc.
no discussion of blade steel could be had without addressing the heat treatment process.
this element also contributes to hardness as well as strength and wear  resistance.
i am not a metallurgist, nor do i pretend to be a steel expert.
in other words, carbon may be present (which creates steel from iron) with chromium added (to increase corrosion resistance) and vanadium added (to increase hardness).
adding carbon will increase a steels wear resistance.
vanadium like chromium, vanadium will also increase hardness but also will improve a blades ability to take a very sharp edge.
ats-34 & 154cm these two steels are quite similar to each other.
carbon produces a hardening affect in the alloy  and the higher the content of carbon in the steel, the greater the hardness  will be.
as one element is added to positively enhance a certain  property, another is often negatively affected.
assuming the quenching has been properly done, the blade is now martensetic, but with high internal stress that can leave the blade prone to breakage.
h1 a precipitation hardened steel, h1 is made with nitrogen instead of carbon and thus is impervious to rust.
this increases the toughness of a steel and may play a role in corrosion resistance.
it  is also quite tough but can succumb to corrosion more easily than others.
again, achieving just the right balance of trade offs between these different characteristics is the aim of the steelmaker and the "right" balance depends on the intended use of the steel.
additionally, depending on the type of steel being worked, with the different  combination of alloys, one process may be preferable to another.
a "stainless" steel blade can still stain and even rust, although not at the rate a pure carbon steel blade would as the chromium aids in corrosion resistance.
the aus series falls into the same categories as 440 with the  good/better/best progression.
aus6/aus8/aus 10 similar  to the 440 series but slightly better in the sense these steels do have a  vanadium content which the 440’s
the spine and both sides of the blade are the soft steel with the harder steel peeking out along the edge.
for example, adding more carbon will increase the hardness and thus edge retention of a knife, however as this property goes up, the property of toughness goes down.
assuming the quenching has been properly done, the blade is  now martensetic, but with high internal stress that can leave the blade prone  to breakage.
although perhaps counter-intuitive, the toughest blades are those made from a softer steel which can absorb these forces without damage.
aus8 is good, mid-grade steel and aus10 competes  with steels like ats-34.
how deep or shallow the indenter has been able to penetrate into the steel under a predetermined load will reflect how hard that steel is.
there are many variations to this process and
these below are some, but certainly not all, of the more common elements used in steel and the reasons why.
d2 although not a true stainless, d2 has enough chromium to thwart  corrosion to a good extent.
440a/440b/440c better than their 420 cousin, the  440’s are a series of steels with increasing carbon content from a to c.  440a is recognized as a good but minimum quality general use steel (better than  420).
for example, adding more carbon  will increase the hardness and thus edge retention of a knife, however as this  property goes up, the property of toughness goes down.
these steels will hold an edge very well yet still retain a good degree of toughness.
a rapid cool down process results in a martensite structure  in which the molecular structure of the steel is very tight and fine, but with  high internal stress.
h1 a precipitation hardened steel, h1 is made with nitrogen instead of  carbon and thus is impervious to rust.
vanadium can result in  rockwell hardness levels above 60.
knives town blade shapes blade grinds glossary of knife terms knife lock types knife handle materials lanyards ceramic knives which knife is right for me bob's knife picks plain edge or serrated copyright © 2011 knives town, llc.
what is "powdered  steel"? this is an expensive but high quality process of combining  precise amounts of pre-selected alloys that have been physically powdered, for  the purpose of engineering a steel with the exact quantities of each alloy in  an exactly even dispersion, which results in a very stable and uniform  structure.
entrek knives esee knives extrema ratio knives fallkniven knives  gerber knives ka-bar knives kershaw knives lansky leatherman tools mantis knives ontario knives puma knives sentry solutions sog knives spyderco knives tops  knives wenger swiss army zero tolerance knives categories hunting knives knife sharpeners machetes multi-tools pocket knives  survival knives tactical knives knives town all  about knives bob's knife reviews about knives town contact knives town ordering  policies returns shipping policies sitemap links blade steels this simple but informative guide to the basics of steel is limited to the  discussion of useful bits which a knife collector could find informative and  which would expand in a beneficial way the knowledge of someone in the early  stages of knife collecting.
it is then wrapped with a softer steel which provides toughness and flexibility.
as one element is added to positively enhance a certain property, another is often negatively affected.
chromium this is the element which when added creates a stainless steel and is generally required in an amount of at least 13% to be considered true stainless steel.
if the cutting is to involve dense materials such as wood, then strength will be important to edge retention.
definitions: edge retention simple to  define, edge retention is the degree to which a knife will maintain a sharp  edge when used.
an all around  excellent performer and is found on the best production knives.
there are many variations to this process and different opinions as to what procedure, material and temperature range is best.
(800) 945-8502 8am - 1pm
i am not a metallurgist, nor do i pretend to be a  steel “expert”.
silicon adds to the strength of a steel and assists in the manufacturing process.
finally, the purpose for which the steel will be used is another variable, further increasing the possible permutations.
even full stainless steel (at least 13% chromium) can still stain and corrode, although at a much slower rate than a pure carbon steel.
the number displayed is a result of a test in which a machine known as an indenter applies a load to the steel and the depth of the indentation made is measured.
once this is accomplished the blade  may be annealed to soften the steel and prepare it for shaping and working.
every bit as  important as the elements of the steel recipe is the heat treatment the steel  receives.
a stainless  steel with a high vanadium content which can be sharpened to an extremely keen  edge.
in the other steps it is important to maintain the temperature evenly, within specific ranges and without large shifts.
each element can be  added in precise quantities to optimize its beneficial properties.
different  opinions as to what procedure, material and temperature range is best.
chromium added to steel increases the blades hardness and ability to  withstand staining and corrosion.
here we begin to get  into the nuts and bolts of cutlery steel development.
o1 takes an edge well and holds it.
cdt -- view all knives --   -- manufacturers -- al mar knives becker knives  blackhawk boker knives buck knives byrd knives cold steel
aus6/aus8/aus 10 similar to the 440 series but slightly better in the sense these steels do have a vanadium content which the 440s lack and therefore can acquire a keener edge.
when it comes to knife collecting, such is not  necessary.
this quantity has not been firmly agreed upon, however is generally accepted for cutlery purposes to be within the 13% range.
so while the knife may have been made to take and keep a very sharp  edge (desirable), those properties have also created a very brittle blade  (undesirable).
this  will permit the martensite to form without cracks and become a stable internal  structure.
when it comes to knife collecting, such is not necessary.
each is known for good toughness and edge retention and has been used to good effect in knives of all sorts for many years.
however a working knowledge of the basics will assist in making your collecting decisions and will go a long way toward filling your knife stable with thoroughbreds.
further additions will change the material correspondingly and in this way the characteristic of the steel is engineered to match its intended use.
this element also contributes to hardness as well as strength and wear resistance.
this steel will suffer when used on abrasive materials and is not  known for holding an edge well.
depending on the amount of carbon in the steel, the temperature may have to be higher or lower to achieve this state.
annealing is the heating and very slow cooling of the steel which results in a soft, ductile steel that may be easily filed, stamped, etc... to do this the steel is heated to non-magnetic and then buried in a media such as hardwood ash or vermiculite which acts as an insulator and will permit the steel to cool only very slowly, much slower than air cooling.
cooling, or quenching may be accomplished quickly or slowly and each way will affect the properties of the steel.
this steel excels in toughness and wear resistance  and with a good ability to resist corrosion it makes for a fine choice.
inexpensive to manufacture and thus popular on low end knives, this steel is useful and has it place, but not as a top end product.
other alloys can also be added and the presence of these alloys will add characteristics to the material which are useful according to the purpose for which it is being created.
even full stainless steel (at least 13%  chromium) can still stain and corrode, although at a much slower rate than a  pure carbon steel.
depending on  the amount of carbon in the steel, the temperature may have to be higher or  lower to achieve this state.
good toughness, wear resistance and edge holding as well.
the  number displayed is a result of a test in which a machine known as an indenter  applies a load to the steel and the depth of the indentation made is measured.
again, achieving just the right balance of trade offs between these different  characteristics is the aim of the steelmaker and the "right" balance  depends on the intended use of the steel.
this state is desirable and is the first  step in altering the steel’s properties to perform as needed.
prior to working the steel it is desirable for the steel to be in a  stress free state and this can be done by normalizing which is the repeated  slow, even, heating of the steel to non-magnetic and then allowing to air cool.
once the steel is in an austenite state, the  performance properties may be determined by the rate of cooling and the medium  used to accomplish the cooling.
when steel is heated to a high temperature (about 1350 degrees) it begins to change its molecular structure from a ferrite state to an austenite state (and thus losing its magnetic properties).
a rapid cool down process results in a martensite structure in which the molecular structure of the steel is very tight and fine, but with high internal stress.
items such as swords or hatchets are often made out of the lower carbon 1055.
what is stainless steel?
definitions: edge retention simple to define, edge retention is the degree to which a knife will maintain a sharp edge when used.
stainless steel is steel which contains the element chromium in sufficient  quantity that the steel takes on a rust resistant property.
what is "powdered steel"? this is an expensive but high quality process of combining precise amounts of pre-selected alloys that have been physically powdered, for the purpose of engineering a steel with the exact quantities of each alloy in an exactly even dispersion, which results in a very stable and uniform structure.
cooling, or quenching may be  accomplished quickly or slowly and each way will affect the properties of the  steel.
the quenching process is the only one in which a drastic change of temperature is desirable.
manganese improves a steel during the manufacture process and most  knives have some fraction of manganese in them.
both considered premium, high quality steel for a knife.
once the alloys have been combined they are subjected to heat (sintering) where the steels self weld together and form a highly pure and uniform product.
all rights  reserved.
while no  such thing may actually exist, this process of discovery has left us with a  variety of steels that are well suited to different tasks and are chosen  according to the anticipated use.
in the other steps it is important  to maintain the temperature evenly, within specific ranges and without large  shifts.
vanadium improves stability in the steel at high temperatures and is found in hard tool steels.
what is alloyed steel?
stainless steel is known to "stain less",  but can still show some evidence of corrosion if exposed to particularly acidic  or corrosive environments.
not so simple is achieving such.
to resolve that problem and create a tough yet still hard blade, the steel is subjected to tempering.
one alloy may add a degree of corrosion resistance, while another increases toughness.
stainless steel is known to "stain less", but can still show some evidence of corrosion if exposed to particularly acidic or corrosive environments.
wear resistance closely related to toughness, wear resistance is a measure of the amount of abrasion a blade steel can withstand without degrading effect.
a very hard, brittle blade would  chip or snap under these conditions and would not be considered  "tough".
every bit as important as the elements of the steel recipe is the heat treatment the steel receives.
finally, the  purpose for which the steel will be used is another variable, further  increasing the possible permutations.
it is then  wrapped with a softer steel which provides toughness and flexibility.
most  knives will have a rockwell hardness (or hrc) displayed as a range in the upper  50 or lower 60 range.
knives crkt knives  emerson knives
not as corrosion resistant as the 400 series, but  still considered an upgrade in comparison.
once this is accomplished the blade may be annealed to soften the steel and prepare it for shaping and working.
to counter this another element may be added, but while helping, it too also presents other issues and thus the dance continues.
tempering is the re-heating of the steel, but to a much lower temperature, perhaps around 400 degrees for one hour.
carbon: this is the primary element which is added to iron to create steel.
how does heat treatment work?
a rolled edge or scratching of the steel is in view here.
sometimes used as the softer outer steel on a laminated blade (sog  mini-vulcan).
each  is known for good toughness and edge retention and has been used to good effect  in knives of all sorts for many years.
vanadium improves stability in the steel at  high temperatures and is found in hard tool steels.
the edge retention of a pocket knife will be achieved through a different steel than that of a machete and the medium in which the cutting will be done plays an important role.
this state is desirable and is the first step in altering the steels properties to perform as needed.
tempering is the re-heating of the steel,  but to a much lower temperature, perhaps around 400 degrees for one hour.
its about more than just making a sharp edge.
the quenching process is the only one in which a  drastic change of temperature is desirable.
it is also quite tough but can succumb to corrosion more easily than others.
vanadium can result in rockwell hardness levels above 60.
d2 although not a true stainless, d2 has enough chromium to thwart corrosion to a good extent.
in  other words, carbon may be present (which creates steel from iron) with  chromium added (to increase corrosion resistance) and vanadium added (to  increase hardness).
while much could be said on this science, my goal is to provide a basic understanding and thus will be a brief overview.
this recipe has been changed and modified endlessly throughout the  centuries as the quest for the "ultimate steel" continues.
the typical laminated steel has a core of very hard (and brittle) steel which provides excellent edge holding ability.
tensile strength this is a measure of the ability of a  steel to resist a force attempting to bend or break it.
the purpose of this is to re-harden the blade to a useful knife hardness.
carbon in the right amount allows a  blade to be sharpened to a very keen edge and hold it well.
this steel will suffer when used on abrasive materials and is not known for holding an edge well.
wear resistance closely related to toughness, wear resistance is a  measure of the amount of abrasion a blade steel can withstand without degrading  effect.
tactical knives   order knives online 24 hours a day - 7 days a week - 365  days a year all about knives blade shapes  blade grinds blade steels glossary of knife terms handle materials lock types  bob's knife picks which knife is right plain or serrated ceramic knives lanyards manufacturers al mar knives becker knives  blackhawk boker knives buck knives byrd knives cold steel
once the steel is in an austenite state, the performance properties may be determined by the rate of cooling and the medium used to accomplish the cooling.
a very hard, brittle blade would chip or snap under these conditions and would not be considered "tough".
toughness is the ability of the blade to withstand shock and impact without cracking, chipping or snapping.
what is a "rockwell hardness?"
to counter this another element may be added, but while helping,  it too also presents other issues and thus the dance continues.
items such as  swords or hatchets are often made out of the lower carbon 1055.
after cooling in the ash (24  hrs), the blade may be worked to its final shape.
prior to working the steel it is desirable for the steel to be in a stress free state and this can be done by normalizing which is the repeated slow, even, heating of the steel to non-magnetic and then allowing to air cool.
the spine  and both sides of the blade are the soft steel with the harder steel peeking  out along the edge.
call toll-free (800) 945-8502 8am - 1pm cdt -- view all knives -- -- manufacturers -- al mar knives becker knives blackhawk boker knives buck knives
440a/440b/440c better than their 420 cousin, the 440s are a series of steels with increasing carbon content from a to c. 440a is recognized as a good but minimum quality general use steel (better than 420).
write up of knives, is a measure of the hardness of the steel used on the knife.
the typical laminated steel has a core of very hard  (and brittle) steel which provides excellent edge holding ability.
the trick is to cool the blade rapidly enough that martensite is achieved and not something short of that, such as pearlite.
this steel excels in toughness and wear resistance and with a good ability to resist corrosion it makes for a fine choice.
adding too much chromium can contribute to a  brittle blade, so a balance must be struck.
this recipe has been changed and modified endlessly throughout the centuries as the quest for the "ultimate steel" continues.
how deep or shallow the indenter has been able to penetrate into the steel  under a predetermined load will reflect how hard that steel is.
however steels at this level of hardness will also be more difficult to sharpen and will be more brittle and susceptible to chipping.
carbon produces a hardening affect in the alloy and the higher the content of carbon in the steel, the greater the hardness will be.
in a very general sense, the faster the steel is cooled, the harder it will be and the slower it is cooled the softer it will be.
no discussion of blade  steel could be had without addressing the heat treatment process.
one  alloy may add a degree of corrosion resistance, while another increases  toughness.
the manufacture of knife steel involves the process of normalizing, annealing, quenching and tempering.
getting too hard though is not a good thing as this can result in a  brittle blade which chips easily on impact.
after cooling in the ash (24 hrs), the blade may be worked to its final shape.
each element can be added in precise quantities to optimize its beneficial properties.
byrd knives cold steel knives crkt knives emerson knives entrek knives esee knives extrema ratio knives
it is the choice for diving knives which will come in contact with salt water or other highly corrosive environments.
it is the choice for diving knives which  will come in contact with salt water or other highly corrosive environments.
fallkniven knives gerber knives ka-bar knives kershaw knives lansky leatherman tools mantis knives ontario knives puma knives sentry solutions sog knives spyderco knives tops knives wenger swiss army zero tolerance knives -- categories -- hunting knives knife sharpeners machetes multi-tools pocket knives survival knives tactical knives order knives online 24 hours a day - 7 days a week - 365 days a year all about knives blade shapes blade grinds blade steels glossary of knife terms handle materials lock types bob's knife picks which knife is right plain or serrated ceramic knives lanyards manufacturers al mar knives becker knives blackhawk boker knives buck knives byrd knives cold steel knives crkt knives emerson knives entrek knives esee
the next step is  quenching in which the blade is re-heated to non-magnetic and then rapidly  cooled, typically in oil heated to around 150 degrees.
these below  are some, but certainly not all, of the more common elements used in steel and  the reasons why.
the "10" series steels have an increasing amount of carbon in them as the number increases and a corresponding degree of wear resistance as well.
both considered premium, high quality  steel for a knife.
s30v specifically designed to be a cutlery steel, this steel has excellent toughness as well as wear resistance, hardness and edge holding.
if cutting through tough, fibrous material is to be done, then wear resistance will be critical to edge retention.
adding carbon  will increase a steel’s wear resistance.
a slow cool will produce a molecular structure that is coarser and without the high internal stress.
1095 is the default knife steel out of this series (tops tom brown trapper).
the 440b is better and thought quite well of, and 440c is excellent.
a laminate line may be seen along the edge where the two steels meet.
additionally, depending on the type of steel being worked, with the different combination of alloys, one process may be preferable to another.
boron steel is often added to steel for hard use implements such as spades or other tools.
this measurement, often seen in the technical spec.
in a very general sense, the faster  the steel is cooled, the harder it will be and the slower it is cooled the  softer it will be.
to resolve that problem and create a tough yet still hard blade,  the steel is subjected to tempering.
not as corrosion resistant as the 400 series, but still considered an upgrade in comparison.
what is a "rockwell  hardness?"
aus8 is good, mid-grade steel and aus10 competes with steels like ats-34.
o1 a good steel that is easy to work with.
corrosion resistance the ability to resist rust and pitting.
this quantity has  not been firmly agreed upon, however is generally accepted for cutlery purposes  to be within the 13% range.
entrek knives esee knives extrema ratio knives fallkniven knives  gerber knives ka-bar knives kershaw knives lansky leatherman tools mantis knives ontario knives puma knives sentry solutions sog knives spyderco knives tops  knives wenger swiss army zero tolerance knives   -- categories -- hunting  knives knife sharpeners machetes multi-tools pocket knives survival knives
the quench medium may also vary from simply air cooling to water  quenching, oil quenching or other means.
this increases the  toughness of a steel and may play a role in corrosion resistance.
sometimes used as the softer outer steel on a laminated blade (sog mini-vulcan).
while much could be said on this science, my goal is to provide a  basic understanding and thus will be a brief overview.
vanadium like  chromium, vanadium will also increase hardness but also will improve a blades  ability to take a very sharp edge.
without some knowledge of what good each of these does, it can feel like trying to read greek.
however a working knowledge of the basics will assist in making your  collecting decisions and will go a long way toward filling your knife stable  with thoroughbreds.
boron steel is often added to steel for hard use implements such as spades or  other tools.
the purpose for heat treating steel is to modify the mechanical properties of the steel.
the next step is quenching in which the blade is re-heated to non-magnetic and then rapidly cooled, typically in oil heated to around 150 degrees.
it is typical to see a knife spec.
the quench medium may also vary from simply air cooling to water quenching, oil quenching or other means.
alloyed steel is a  general term indicating a substance in which additional elements have been  added beyond those necessary to elevate the material from iron to steel.
higher degrees of chromium added to  the mix will enhance this ability.
if you have ever looked into what steels are made of you may have seen a bewildering set of elements named as the primary components.
if the cutting is to involve dense materials such  as wood, then strength will be important to edge retention.
tensile strength this is a measure of the ability of a steel to resist a force attempting to bend or break it.