0.3 free shipping on all continental us orders over $60.
can i tell the difference in sharpness b/w my misono and this?
i tell myself the misono is sharper,but my brain probably just wants  to convince me as much... since we spent 3x as much for ux10.
i own two  other tojiro’s and this one is by far the best.
it’s basically perfect.
knives - tomato knives - utility knives - usuba knives - wa-gyutos - vg-10 steel - 52100 steel knives - cpm-154 - white #1 steel - m390 - white #2 steel - sg-2
nearly cut my finger off.
will definitely look at more of the same name 0.3 by:
buy it you won’t be sorry.
reasonably sharp otb,maintains a good edge,has great balance & a great price.
for sure this will not be my last tojiro.
steel - aeb-l steel - vg-10 steel - zdp-189 steel - aogami super steel - ginsanko steel - 19c27
by: robert slc,ut my third tojiro dp,and as with the others,a great knife at a reasonable price.
i own two other tojiro’s and this one is by far the best.
by:   dean schermerhorn calgary,alberta  so far,so good...find the knife sharp  out of the box,but not extraordinary sharp like say a global,nice balance and  half decent weight,so far this knife has offered exceptional value in my mind.
if you want a great knife at a great price i recomend you buy this one.
by: anthony salt lake city,ut bought 3 knives - they were so nice that i took them me on a trip to the mid-west; packed in the belly of a plane.
0.3 by:  anthony salt lake city,ut  bought 3 knives - they were so nice that i took them me on a  trip to the mid-west; packed in the belly of a plane.
i have bought several as presents for my friends.
plus,it came fantastically  sharp ootb.
[x] stay informed with exclusive offers and limited promotions!
veggies have met their match!
by: nancy miami,florida excellent!
0.3 by: rob babcock sioux falls,sd wow,this one was a surprise!
0.3 by:  lauren alabama  purchased this as an impulse  buy,and am i ever glad i did.
(not to mention they were shipped on the day ordered - a saturday no less).
plus,it came fantastically sharp ootb.
the craftsmanship and balance is out of this world.
by: bradford boutilier indianapolis,indiana exceptional knife.
tojiro dp nakiri 165mm related products tojiro dp series | tojiro itk shirogami series | other tojiro knives | tojiro hammered carbon tojiro dp nakiri 165mm - home - - info/return policy - - show order - - privacy policy - - customer feedback - - other resources [close cart] © 2011
fit and finish is very good,but most remarkable is the  size & balance-
home about us info/return policy view cart privacy policy customer feedback shop by: - knife brands - aritsugu type a - blazen knives - bunmei knives - murray carter knives - cck cleavers - ceramic knives - doi knives - dojo knives - f dick knives - forschner knives - stephan fowler knives - fujiwara knives - global knives - butch harner knives - thomas haslinger
it’s the first knife i’ve bought in ages that i  didn’t need to sharpen before taking it to work.
nakiri-knives tojiro dp nakiri 165mm item #
reasonably  sharp otb,maintains a good edge,has great balance & a great price.
i tell myself the misono is sharper,but my brain probably just wants to convince me as much... since we spent 3x as much for ux10.
weight,balance,size and grip are perfect.
this line is constructed with a black stamina wood handle and stainless steel bolster.
the  craftsmanship and balance is out of this world.
i’ve had several tojiros but  this one is the best.
very attractive  knife.
knives - henckels knives - hiromoto knives - kaneshige knives - kanehiro knives - kanetsune knives - kasumi knives - kikuichi knives - konosuke knives - kramer knives - mac knives - adam marr knives - maruyoshi knives - masahiro knives - masamoto knives - messermeister knives - misono knives - morimoto knives - moritaka knives - nubatama knives - richmond knives - rodrigue knives - takeshi saji knives - shun knives - sugimoto knives - suisin knives - sakai takayuki - takeda knives - tamahagane knives - tanaka knives - tc blades - devin thomas knives - tojiro knives - victorinox knives - watanabe knives - wusthof knives - knife accessories - cutting boards - hand held sharpeners - kitchen tools - kitchen shears - knife cases - knife handles - knife sharpening tutorials - knife sharpeners - knife sharpening service - knife storage - magnifiers - sayas - sharpening accessories - sharpening steels - sharpening stones - straight razors - strops - spoons - suppliers - dmt - edge pro products - hand american - lamson & goodnow - ken's corner - naniwa - panini grills - shapton stones - wicked edge - videos & tutorials - knife types - boning knives - bread knives - cheese knives - chef knives - carving knives - cleavers - deba knives - fillet knives - german knives - gyutos - hankotsu knives - honesuki knives - japanese knives - kiritsuke knives - kurouchi knives - nakiri knives - oyster knives - paring knives - petty knives - santoku knives - yanagi sashimi knives - steak knives - sujihikis - sushi
0.3 slc,ut  my third tojiro dp,and  as with the others,a great knife at a reasonable price.
weight: 7.2oz blade length: 165mm overall length: 300mm spine thickness at heel: 1.9mm add a product review average rating is 4.8 by: christina mansfield,ma
hi close tojiro dp nakiri 165mm
it is now the knife i grab the most.
sign up below with your email address and you'll be updated with the latest offers!
by:  giovanni miami,fl  great knife- much better than many others i have at twice the  price.
0.3 indianapolis,indiana   exceptional knife.
it slices through things without even having to struggle at all.
very attractive knife.
0.3 wayne,nj  i should have got this one a long time ago!
shape and heft are new for me.
it slices through things  without even having to struggle at all.
by: giovanni miami,fl great knife- much better than many others i have at twice the price.
buy it you won’t be  sorry.
rob babcock sioux falls,sd  wow,this one was a surprise!
super sharp thin blade - cuts carrots,onions,etc like going through butter.
0.3 free shipping on  all continental us orders over $60.
spine thickness at heel: 1.9mm add a product review average rating is 4.8 by:  christina mansfield,ma  this is a phenominal knife.
it’s the first knife i’ve bought in ages that i didn’t need to sharpen before taking it to work.
by: mike nj great knife,good feel,very light,sharp out of the box,cuts arm hair,best value for the price 0.3
0.3 by: ronandav pinehurst,nc a great knife,has become one of the most used knife in our kitchen.
this nakiri blade measures 165mm and is used primarily for preparing vegetables.
0.3 by:  gary arivella haverhill,ma  beautiful knife have used it several times over the past weeks  and it works as promised.
f-502 regular price: $90.00 sale price: $69.95 you save $20.05 reviews: read reviews / add a review availability usually ships the same business day shipping free shipping learn more considered to be one of the best lines as an introduction to japanese knives, the dp series is constructed with a core of vg-10 stainless steel sandwiched between a layer of softer stainless for ease of sharpening.
0.3 by: andrew denver,co this knife is amazing!
i’ve had several tojiros but this one is the best.
0.3 nj  great knife,good feel,very light,sharp out of the  box,cuts arm hair,best value for the price 0.3 miami,florida  excellent!
will definitely look at more of the same name 0.3 vancouver,canada  this knife was a gift for  my son-in-law but he is delighted with it.
email us at   help@chefknivestogo.com home > knife brands  > tojiro knives > tojiro dp series  > tojiro dp nakiri 165mm related  products tojiro dp series | tojiro itk shirogami series | other tojiro  knives |
so far,so good...find the knife sharp out of the box,but not extraordinary sharp like say a global,nice balance and half decent weight,so far this knife has offered exceptional value in my mind.
by: glenn wayne,nj i should have got this one a long time ago!
this is a phenominal knife.
fit and finish is very good,but most remarkable is the size & balance-
can i tell the difference in sharpness b/w my misono  and this?
by: gary arivella haverhill,ma beautiful knife have used it several times over the past weeks and it works as promised.
five  stars,only because i can’t give it six!
joan bree vancouver,canada this knife was a gift for my son-in-law but he is delighted with it.
they made xmas cooking a joy.
they made xmas cooking a  joy.
steel - specials - best sellers - close outs - custom knives - eamon burke's corner - harald andersen's corner - isaiah's corner - ken's corner - knife sharpening service - matt stephens corner - seconds/ used - new arrivals - videos & tutorials free shipping on all orders more than $60 in the continental us join us on exclusive offers and info home > knife brands > tojiro knives > tojiro dp series > tojiro dp nakiri 165mm home > knife types > sushi knives > tojiro knives > tojiro dp series > tojiro dp nakiri 165mm home > knife types > japanese knives > tojiro knives >tojiro dp series > tojiro dp nakiri 165mm home > knife types > nakiri knives > tojiro dp nakiri 165mm tojirodpseries tojirodpseries tojirodpseries
five stars,only because i can’t give it six!
or try another shape.
tojiro hammered carbon tojiro dp nakiri 165mm
for the price i can’t  imagine how you could better this knife.
by:   ronandav pinehurst,nc  a great knife,has become one of the most used knife  in our kitchen.
by: lauren alabama purchased this as an impulse buy,and am i ever glad i did.
email us at help@chefknivestogo.com home > knife brands > tojiro knives > tojiro dp series >
0.3 by:  andrew denver,co  this knife is amazing!
if you want a great knife at a great  price i recomend you buy this one.
for the price i can’t imagine how you could better this knife.
by: dean schermerhorn calgary,alberta
0.3 by:  k hi  love it.
nakiri shape is wonderful.