if you had the rounded bottom problem, you'll probably get shiny  spots at the top of the v, but they don't connect at the bottom.
harbor freight tools sells a  couple of models, including some with three or four grits on the same  block.
for just a couple of gouges, you can accomplish the same tasks by hand using the various honing tools described above.
for one thing, if you're using a powered grinder, you'll most certainly burn the metal; the thinner the edge gets, the easier it is to overheat it.
another route would be to purchase a diamond hone for sharpening knives, but you need to make sure to get a very fine one, 600 grit or thereabouts.
you'll be surprised at how much it helps.
you  can also buy a ceramic knife at walmart.
contrary to the arkansas stone, a diamond hone  works best dry.
after you've ground just a bit, take a look at it end-on with a light positioned to reflect off the tip.
in these pages i present a discussion on sharpening and modification of gouges, also known as linoleum cutters or cutters for block printing.
the important thing is that you haven't left any of the original shiny flat face, which would be dull.
get it up close to the cutting  edge and quit.
the best way i can describe it is: with the side of the tip against the grinding surface, the butt end of the handle should be about 2" to 2-1/2" above the grinding surface.
besides the hone, you will also need a ceramic knife.
a minor gouge modification: your gouge is done, but i recommend one more step.
firmly establish  the position that you will be holding both.
gouge sharpening and modification
still, often such diamond hones will have a flat area uninterrupted by holes at each end that's large enough for our purposes.
if at all possible, the above two methods are preferred.
if you have ground a new tip on the gouge as described above and left a narrow strip of the flat front face during grinding, now is the time to bring that bevelled surface all the way to meet the inside surface of the v. note that as you get close to the inside surface of the v you need to be applying only very light pressure on the hone.
so, using strong magnification -- a loupe or other 10x magnifier if you have it -- and good light, look at the tip of your gouge.
now, obviously, flip it over and do the other side the same way: when you're done with these flats, the gouge viewed from the side should have a flat that looks like this: note that if the ground surface isn't shaped pretty much like that, you probably did something wrong.
the completed gouge should have 5 "facets" around the outside.
if we could presume that your gouge was properly shaped at the factory, we could proceed directly to sharpening.
keep the handle at about the same height through this  process.
if you decide the work on the outside isn't quite right and you  want to go back and hit it some more, be sure to repeat the inside honing with  the ceramic knife when you're done.
if you have good eyesight, drop into your  neighborhood dollar store and pick up a pair of +3.50 or stronger reading  glasses for a dollar.
side note:  a ceramic knife  will cut most anything, and that includes your fine china!
next, hold the gouge right side up with the bottom of the nib against the grinding surface, with the end of the gouge almost flat against the surface -- just slightly nose-down, so the tip contacts first.
if you choose to use sandpaper, be sure  to pull your gouge across the sandpaper rather than push it; pushing can cause  the sandpaper to curl up a bit just ahead of the gouge and dull it rather than  sharpen it.
another route would be to  purchase a diamond hone for sharpening knives, but you need to make sure to get  a very fine one, 600 grit or thereabouts.
using one of the coarser grits on a diamond knife hone works especially well.
this is not a problem.
using one of the coarser grits on a diamond  knife hone works especially well.
if you need glasses to see normally you won't be able to put cheap reading glasses on top of them, so you'll need to resort to a magnifier on a stand or something else.
obviously, once done with one side of the v, roll the gouge the other way and do the other side.
when honing a staedtler, the entire roll should take no more  than a few seconds; it takes a bit longer on a speedball because the bottom of  the v isn't as crisply formed.
don't use one  as a steak knife -- you'll notice that harbor freight tools doesn't offer a  steak knife version -- because diners would be cutting your plates as well as  the steak.
now do one more trick: while holding one side of the gouge against the hone and rubbing, slowly roll the gouge over to the other side, continuing the honing motion all the way.
you need to continue this grinding until the shiny area forms a  complete v.  don't go overboard and try to make it a pretty or uniform v,  only go far enough that there are no gaps in the v.  it will probably look  something like this: now, for step 2 you will grind the  outside along one side of that v parallel to theinside surface of the tip: you need to know more than this illustration shows, though; you  need to know how steep to make that cut.
the next step is to take your ceramic knife and position the edge of the knife down in the bottom of the v. the tip of the knife should be pointing toward the handle of the gouge.
side note: a ceramic knife will cut most anything, and that includes your fine china!
so it's  straight before sharpening.
if you happen to be one of the lucky souls  with a gouge that was shaped right to begin with, you can skip down to  "sharpening" below.
this is a minor and quick step, but it makes all the difference in how well your gouge will carve because it's this area that slides across the rubber when carving.
on separate pages i describe how to perform  three popular major modifications,pinching, miniaturization and reversing.
do  not, repeatdo not grind enough that you break through to the inside of the v at  the tip!
still, often such diamond hones will  have a flat area uninterrupted by holes at each end that's large enough for our  purposes.
they sometimes are sold together -- along with a coarse stone -- as a "knife sharpening kit".
don't try to grind the side of the gouge all the way to a sharp edge just yet.
step 1:  holding the handle  (not the tip!) perpendicular to the grinding surface, grind the front of the  nib a little bit.
the important thing is  that you haven't left any of the original shiny flat face, which would be  dull.
besides good magnification to see what you're doing, it's also helpful to havegreat magnification to inspect your finished work.
honestly, if you're only working on one or  two gouges, a power tool is scarcely worth the trouble; it's more important  when webfoot ships you a box of 120 gouges she wants modified!
once you have both sides honed to form an actual  cutting edge at the face of the v, you will know perfectly well how to hold the  gouge with one side or the other against the hone while rubbing.
you may, however, opt to roll the gouge side-to-side during this step to round the bottom the way the manufacturer did it.
when there's no more  shine, you know you're looking at a sharp edge.
using the bottom is also less likely to incur the wrath of your significant other for ruining one of your coasters.
experience has shown, though, that a large percentage of both speedball and staedtler gouges werenot properly shaped at the factory.
basically, anything with  a flat grinding surface will do, and that includes a drill or dremel with a  flat disk chucked up in it.
when honing a staedtler, the entire roll should take no more than a few seconds; it takes a bit longer on a speedball because the bottom of the v isn't as crisply formed.
it's when the cutting edge itself curls back toward the handle that's the problem.
it's possible you've never heard of such a thing; they are a  fairly recent technology.
if one protrudes forward farther than the other, we'll have to fix that before we proceed.
you will need a very fine knife hone; a common "knife sharpening stone" won't do, they are usually far too coarse for this job even if they have a side described as "fine".
the trick here is to have good light and good magnification to see what you're doing, and hold the gouge in one hand and the hone in the other.
creating a proper tip:
if you happen to be one of the lucky souls with a gouge that was shaped right to begin with, you can skip down to "sharpening" below.
if you had the rounded bottom problem, you'll probably get shiny spots at the top of the v, but they don't connect at the bottom.
this is presuming a staedtler handle, which is about 6" long overall.
too much pressure will push the thin edge right over.
inspecting your gouge:
for now, just put a nice bevel on the outside surface  of the gouge while leaving a narrow band of the original shiny surface  remaining.
the fact that the tip doesn't have  that razor sharpness you get from honing at shallow angles isn't a problem  because it's not difficult to push a gouge through rubber anyway.
the surface obviously can't be coated with paint or  glazing.
something powered by electricity.
basically, anything with a flat grinding surface will do, and that includes a drill or dremel with a flat disk chucked up in it.
if you honed a knife at similar angles, it would end up with a  pretty blunt edge indeed and wouldn't cut well at all.
the grinding you have done will have created a shiny area -- or perhaps two shiny areas.
if you  had one side longer than the other, you probably got a shiny spot on that side  only.
it's when the  cutting edge itself curls back toward the handle that's the problem.
a diamond hone also seems to get finer with use,  apparently as the high points of the grit get broken off the surface, but it  keeps on working.
next, hold the gouge right side up with  the bottom of the nib against the grinding surface, with the end of the gouge  almost flat against the surface -- just slightly nose-down, so the tip contacts  first.
a diamond hone also seems to get finer with use, apparently as the high points of the grit get broken off the surface, but it keeps on working.
very light pressure is the secret to success here; let the hone and the motion do the work, don't try to rush it or force it.
keep the handle at about the same height through this process.
these cuts do not affect the cutting edge at all; the cutting edge is not involved -- that's why it doesn't matter if you use the hone or grinder.
use a ceramic knife only on a cutting board or similar surface.
in other words, the grinding done to round the area below the cutting edge went too far.
a ceramic or stone coaster might work -- that's right, the disc your drink is sitting on while you read this.
pressure on the hone.
always have a cup of water handy and dunk it regularly during  grinding to keep it cool.
you may notice a gray smudge appearing on the white ceramic knife; that's metal particles being rubbed away.
don't try to grind the side of the gouge all the way to  a sharp edge just yet.
for just a  couple of gouges, you can accomplish the same tasks by hand using the various  honing tools described above.
i haven't used one, but i  understand they are made of wood and use a fine rouge or polishing compound to  provide a cutting action.
the other common problem is the profile of the cutting face when viewed  from the side; the actual cutting edge should form a straight line.
this will have you honing just at the cutting edge rather that trying to move the entire bevelled surface.
below, i describe how to sharpen one of these gouges as well  as a minor modification.
this treatment with the ceramic knife only takes ten seconds or so.
after you've ground just a bit, take a  look at it end-on with a light positioned to reflect off the tip.
you do want to grind until the elongated diamond you are  creating extends right up to the front of the nib, though, where the two sides  you ground meet at the bottom of the v. note:  both staedtler  and speedball nibs come with the bottom ground to a rounded shape.
harbor freight tools sells a couple of models, including some with three or four grits on the same block.
note: if you have experience sharpening knives, you're probably alarmed at how steep these angles are.
what you'll need:  being able to clearly see what you're doing to the  tip of your gouge is imperative, so you're going to need all the magnification  and lighting you can muster.
there is one  other thing you might want to make use of, and that's a grinder of some sort or  another.
when viewed from the side, the resulting  flat will be a triangle with a long straight side along the top edge of the  gouge tip and the peak pointing downward.
it actually works a little better for this task after it's been worn a little bit.
holding the handle (not the tip!) perpendicular to the grinding surface, grind the front of the nib a little bit.
after you've finished this step, you're done with the grinder for now.
any size will work here, but once you have this knife you'll want  to put it to use in the kitchen, too -- trust me, these aregreat knives -- so  choose the size that would best fit your kitchen needs.
and, just for good measure, stand the ceramic knife up  straight, centered between the two sides of the v, and make a few more  in-and-out sliding motions with the sharp edge of the knife working on the  bottom of the v only.
now do  one more trick:  while holding one side of the gouge against the hone and  rubbing, slowly roll the gouge over to the other side, continuing the honing  motion all the way.
that's why it doesn't matter if you use the hone or grinder.
i usually start by jamming the tip deep into the rubber to clean it; pull it out of the rubber and it leaves smudges of metal particles all around the cut.
there is one other thing you might want to make use of, and that's a grinder of some sort or another.
so, using strong magnification -- a loupe or other 10x  magnifier if you have it -- and good light, look at the tip of your  gouge.
always have a cup of water handy and dunk it regularly during grinding to keep it cool.
and, just for good measure, stand the ceramic knife up straight, centered between the two sides of the v, and make a few more in-and-out sliding motions with the sharp edge of the knife working on the bottom of the v only.
and it's quick and easy to do.
with the ceramic knife  held in this position, roll it until one side of the knife is sitting flat  against one side of the v of the gouge.
if you get one, be sure to get some honing oil to use with it.
this may sound like the quick and easy route, but it's more  difficult to obtain a good edge with sandpaper.
do not, repeatdo not grind enough that you break through to the inside of the v at the tip!
it's pretty easy to tell if you have, though, by holding the gouge  in such a way that your light would shine on it.
if you try to use  the shallow angles commonly used in knife sharpening on a gouge, you'd end up  with a very sharp gouge -- and you'd bend the edge over as soon as you tried to  carve with it.
the most commonly used tools of this sort are the staedtler 1v (shown above) and the speedball #1, although these guidelines also work with other v-shaped carving tools such as the staedtler 2v and v-shaped woodcutting tools.
what follows is a procedure for cleaning up that tip
inspecting your gouge:  if we could  presume that your gouge was properly shaped at the factory, we could proceed  directly to sharpening.
for one thing, if you're using a powered grinder,  you'll most certainly burn the metal; the thinner the edge gets, the easier it  is to overheat it.
if you have good eyesight, drop into your neighborhood dollar store and pick up a pair of +3.50 or stronger reading glasses for a dollar.
below, i describe how to sharpen one of these gouges as well as a minor modification.
i have tried both ways, with a flat bottom and with a rounded bottom, and in my opinion the flat bottom works as well or even slightly better; the gouge has less tendency to fall into the groove you just cut.
there are several ways to obtain a suitable hone.
roll the knife over the other way and polish the other side of the v the same way.
if you have a jeweler's loupe or similar 10x magnifier, you can inspect your work.
sharpening:   hold the gouge with the tip against the surface of the hone and rolled  onto one side, so that one side of the v is flat against the hone.
if youare using a powered grinder, please note that the  tip of a gouge is pretty tiny and will overheat quickly if you're not  careful.
in these pages i present  a discussion on sharpening and modification of gouges, also known as linoleum  cutters or cutters for block printing.
the trick  here is to have good light and good magnification to see what you're doing, and  hold the gouge in one hand and the hone in the other.
roll the knife over the other way
using a scrap piece of carving rubber, take a couple of trial cuts and see how it works.
they carry three  sizes, a 3" paring knife, a 5" utility knife, and a 6" chef's  knife.
if the wood in the slipstrop has a sharp edge  that'll be good, but if that edge gets dull with use you're either going to  have to figure out how to sharpen it or keep buying new slipstrops every now  and then.
hold your gouge with  one side of the tip against a grinder or hone (either works here) as shown: you'll need to use the corner of a grinder or hone for this  task, because you need to get down low enough that both the broad part of the  nib and the handle would be contacting the grinding surface.
what's important here is that it have a razor-sharp edge; a sharp edge is essential to make your gouge better rather than worse when sharpening.
this step will round the corners where the flats on the sides and the elongated diamond flat on the bottom meet.
pressure is the secret to success here; let the hone and the motion do the  work, don't try to rush it or force it.
the cutting edge on a gouge nib needs to have  comparatively blunt angles to be strong enough to push into rubber and pry  pieces out without getting damaged.
it must have a flat surface and a fine grain --  ceramic will usually be smooth enough, but many of the stone coasters are too  coarse.
periodically stop and look at the polished area you have created, making sure that it is uniform along the edge and not concentrating too much at one corner or the other.
note that the bottom of the tip, below the actual cutting  edge, is typically rounded.
basically it's a knife with a blade made of bright white ceramic rather than steel.
if you can't find a ceramic knife the only possible substitute known is a flexcut slipstrop, which is a honing kit designed specifically for sharpening carving tools.
you may, however, opt to roll the gouge side-to-side during this step to round  the bottom the way the manufacturer did it.
i'll go into excruciating  detail to make the process as clear as possible, and apologize for how lengthy  it is.
the cutting edge on a gouge nib needs to have comparatively blunt angles to be strong enough to push into rubber and pry pieces out without getting damaged.
you do want to grind until the elongated diamond you are creating extends right up to the front of the nib, though, where the two sides you ground meet at the bottom of the v. note: both staedtler and speedball nibs come with the bottom ground to a rounded shape.
what this modification does is make the tip visibly narrower, which means it's easier to see what you're carving because there's less gouge in your line of sight.
honestly, if you're only working on one or two gouges, a power tool is scarcely worth the trouble; it's more important when webfoot ships you a box of 120 gouges she wants modified!
the forward end of this  triangle shouldnot meet the cutting edge!
if you have a jeweler's  loupe or similar 10x magnifier, that'd be good.
for now, just put a nice bevel on the outside surface of the gouge while leaving a narrow band of the original shiny surface remaining.
after you've finished  this step, you're done with the grinder for now.
the next step is to take your ceramic knife and position the  edge of the knife down in the bottom of the v.  the tip of the knife  should be pointing toward the handle of the gouge.
i'll go into excruciating detail to make the process as clear as possible, and apologize for how lengthy it is.
yet another way to go would be to use a piece of 600-grit sandpaper taped down onto a flat surface such as a piece of glass.
don't use one as a steak knife -- you'll notice that harbor freight tools doesn't offer a steak knife version -- because diners would be cutting your plates as well as the steak.
using the bottom is also  less likely to incur the wrath of your significant other for ruining one of  your coasters.
experience has shown, though, that a large  percentage of both speedball and staedtler gouges werenot properly shaped at  the factory.
an arkansas stone may be difficult to find, though.
there are other ideas that might work.
using a scrap piece of carving rubber, take a couple of  trial cuts and see how it works.
yet another way to go would be to use a  piece of 600-grit sandpaper taped down onto a flat surface such as a piece of  glass.
if it  seems to round the corner at the bottom of the v, we'll need to fix that, too.
the good news is that  you can buy a ceramic knife at harbor freight tools.
two or three slides each way is plenty.
the fact that the tip doesn't have that razor sharpness you get from honing at shallow angles isn't a problem because it's not difficult to push a gouge through rubber anyway.
firmly establish the position that you will be holding both.
obviously, once done with one side of the v, roll the gouge the other way and  do the other side.
the reason:  ceramic is much  harder than steel, so it will hold an edge better -- and for this task, it  means it can be used to hone the inside edge of your hardened steel gouge  without the knife itself getting polished instead.
grind away  the side of the tip as shown.
the  tip of the handle should be perhaps 2-1/2" to 3" above the honing  surface, which you'll note is a bit higher than it was held in the grinding  steps described above.
contrary to the arkansas stone, a diamond hone works best dry.
bring them together and begin a honing motion (back and forth, circles, doesn't matter much) without changing those positions.
creating a proper tip:  the  following process will fix whatever's wrong with your gouge short of having  been run through a garbage disposal.
you need to continue this grinding until the shiny area forms a complete v. don't go overboard and try to make it a pretty or uniform v, only go far enough that there are no gaps in the v. it will probably look something like this: now, for step 2 you will grind the outside along one side of that v parallel to theinside surface of the tip: you need to know more than this illustration shows, though; you need to know how steep to make that cut.
hold your gouge with one side of the tip against a grinder or hone (either works here) as shown: you'll need to use the corner of a grinder or hone for this task, because you need to get down low enough that both the broad part of the nib and the handle would be contacting the grinding surface.
if you have a jeweler's loupe or similar 10x magnifier, that'd be good.
looks like you're ruining your gouge, doesn't it?
when there's no more shine, you know you're looking at a sharp edge.
the forward end of this triangle shouldnot meet the cutting edge!
this is presuming a staedtler handle, which is about 6"  long overall.
and polish the other side of the  v the same way.
in  other words, the grinding done to round the area below the cutting edge went  too far.
get it up close to the cutting edge and quit.
a minor gouge modification:   your gouge is done, but i recommend one more step.
note:  if you have  experience sharpening knives, you're probably alarmed at how steep these angles  are.
this treatment with the ceramic knife only  takes ten seconds or so.
the  grinding you have done will have created a shiny area -- or perhaps two shiny  areas.
you may notice a gray smudge  appearing on the white ceramic knife; that's metal particles being rubbed  away.
these cuts  do not affect the cutting edge at all; the cutting edge is not involved --
if you find you've been leaning a bit crooked one way or the other, adjust and continue.
the most commonly used tools of  this sort are the staedtler 1v (shown above) and the speedball #1, although  these guidelines also work with other v-shaped carving tools such as the  staedtler 2v and v-shaped woodcutting tools.
the tip of the handle should be perhaps 2-1/2" to 3" above the honing surface, which you'll note is a bit higher than it was held in the grinding steps described above.
obviously, repeat for the other side.
the following process will fix whatever's wrong with your gouge short of having been run through a garbage disposal.
the good news is that you can buy a ceramic knife at harbor freight tools.
an arkansas stone may be difficult to find,  though.
if it seems to round the corner at the bottom of the v, we'll need to fix that, too.
if you try to use the shallow angles commonly used in knife sharpening on a gouge, you'd end up with a very sharp gouge -- and you'd bend the edge over as soon as you tried to carve with it.
it's pretty easy to tell if you have, though, by holding the gouge in such a way that your light would shine on it.
when done, you can look at the bottom of  the v and see what you've done.
the completed gouge should have 5 "facets" around the  outside.
it  absolutely must be thelast thing done to the cutting edge of the gouge,  though.
if the wood in the slipstrop has a sharp edge that'll be good, but if that edge gets dull with use you're either going to have to figure out how to sharpen it or keep buying new slipstrops every now and then.
on separate pages i describe how to perform three popular major modifications,pinching, miniaturization and reversing.
sharpening: hold the gouge with the tip against the surface of the hone and rolled onto one side, so that one side of the v is flat against the hone.
grind away the side of the tip as shown.
periodically stop and look at the polished area you have  created, making sure that it is uniform along the edge and not concentrating  too much at one corner or the other.
there are two common faults to look for: first, are the two sides of the cutting edge the same length?
if you need glasses to see normally you won't be  able to put cheap reading glasses on top of them, so you'll need to resort to a  magnifier on a stand or something else.
if you get one, be sure to get some honing oil to use with  it.
they sometimes are sold together -- along with a coarse stone -- as a  "knife sharpening kit".
what's important here is that it have a  razor-sharp edge; a sharp edge is essential to make your gouge better rather  than worse when sharpening.
the surface obviously can't be coated with paint or glazing.
if you decide the work on the outside isn't quite right and you want to go back and hit it some more, be sure to repeat the inside honing with the ceramic knife when you're done.
the other common problem is the profile of the cutting face when viewed from the side; the actual cutting edge should form a straight line.
note that the bottom of the tip, below the actual cutting edge, is typically rounded.
if you honed a knife at similar angles, it would end up with a pretty blunt edge indeed and wouldn't cut well at all.
it absolutely must be thelast thing done to the cutting edge of the gouge, though.
a ceramic or  stone coaster might work -- that's right, the disc your drink is sitting on  while you read this.
it actually works a little better for this task after  it's been worn a little bit.
what this  modification does is make the tip visibly narrower, which means it's easier to  see what you're carving because there's less gouge in your line of sight.
when viewed from the side, the resulting flat will be a triangle with a long straight side along the top edge of the gouge tip and the peak pointing downward.
if you have a jeweler's loupe or  similar 10x magnifier, you can inspect your work.
while holding this position, grind just enough to  create a flat on the bottom that is shaped like an elongated diamond.
what you'll need: being able to clearly see what you're doing to the tip of your gouge is imperative, so you're going to need all the magnification and lighting you can muster.
the reason: ceramic is much harder than steel, so it will hold an edge better -- and for this task, it means it can be used to hone the inside edge of your hardened steel gouge without the knife itself getting polished instead.
they carry three sizes, a 3" paring knife, a 5" utility knife, and a 6" chef's knife.
two triangles, two trapezoids, and one elongated diamond.
you can get what's called an "arkansas stone", which is sold in fine knife stores; an arkansas stone is typically used after a regular stone when sharpening knives because it is very fine-grained and applies a very smooth finish to the cutting edge.
it's probably cheaper and easier to buy the ceramic knife, since it'll last essentially forever -- and if it does get dull, you can sharpen it with a diamond hone (but not an arkansas stone; rub your ceramic knife against an arkansas stone and the stone loses!).
basically it's a knife with a blade made of  bright white ceramic rather than steel.
you will need a very  fine knife hone; a common "knife sharpening stone" won't do, they are  usually far too coarse for this job even if they have a side described as  "fine".
the problem with these things is that they typically have rows of  holes all over the surface, which may help sharpening knives somehow but it  just causes grief honing gouges.
so it's straight before sharpening.
if you had one side longer than the other, you probably got a shiny spot on that side only.
i haven't used one, but i understand they are made of wood and use a fine rouge or polishing compound to provide a cutting action.
in cutting this flat, i am recommending a departure from the original configuration.
it's also much easier to grind a flat than a curved surface.
besides good  magnification to see what you're doing, it's also helpful to havegreat  magnification to inspect your finished work.
even if it doesn't permanently deform it, it can bend it enough  that the hone isn't creating the edge you're looking for; it's not polishing  the edge itself because the edge has moved out of the way.
any size will work here, but once you have this knife you'll want to put it to use in the kitchen, too -- trust me, these aregreat knives -- so choose the size that would best fit your kitchen needs.
this will have you honing just at the cutting edge  rather that trying to move the entire bevelled surface.
if it's painted or engraved on top, you might try flipping it over and peeling that cork layer off the bottom.
this may sound like the quick and easy route, but it's more difficult to obtain a good edge with sandpaper.
there are two common faults to look for:  first, are the two  sides of the cutting edge the same length?  if one protrudes forward  farther than the other, we'll have to fix that before we proceed.
if you can't find a ceramic knife the only possible substitute known  is a flexcut slipstrop, which is a honing kit designed specifically for  sharpening carving tools.
it must have a flat surface and a fine grain -- ceramic will usually be smooth enough, but many of the stone coasters are too coarse.
this step will round the corners where  the flats on the sides and the elongated diamond flat on the bottom meet.
when done, you can look at the bottom of the v and see what you've done.
even if it doesn't permanently deform it, it can bend it enough that the hone isn't creating the edge you're looking for; it's not polishing the edge itself because the edge has moved out of the way.
if you have  ground a new tip on the gouge as described above and left a narrow strip of the  flat front face during grinding, now is the time to bring that bevelled surface  all the way to meet the inside surface of the v.  note that as you get  close to the inside surface of the v you need to be applying only very light
bring them together and begin  a honing motion (back and forth, circles, doesn't matter much) without changing  those positions.
slide the knife in and out of the tip of the gouge a couple of times; the blade will probably come close to contacting the handle of the gouge.
if it's painted or engraved on top, you might try flipping it  over and peeling that cork layer off the bottom.
so, in the instructions that follow, when it says to use your grinder, remember that you can just do the job by hand if you prefer.
you can get what's called an "arkansas stone", which is sold in fine  knife stores; an arkansas stone is typically used after a regular stone when  sharpening knives because it is very fine-grained and applies a very smooth  finish to the cutting edge.
if you find you've been leaning a  bit crooked one way or the other, adjust and continue.
slide the knife in and out of the  tip of the gouge a couple of times; the blade will probably come close to  contacting the handle of the gouge.
besides the hone, you will also need a ceramic  knife.
i have tried both ways, with a flat bottom and with a  rounded bottom, and in my opinion the flat bottom works as well or even  slightly better; the gouge has less tendency to fall into the groove you just  cut.
too much pressure will push the thin edge right  over.
the best way i can describe it  is:  with the side of the tip against the grinding surface, the butt end  of the handle should be about 2" to 2-1/2" above the grinding  surface.
it's possible you've never heard of such a thing; they are a fairly recent technology.
so, in the instructions that follow,  when it says to use your grinder, remember that you can just do the job by hand  if you prefer.
i usually start by jamming the tip deep  into the rubber to clean it; pull it out of the rubber and it leaves smudges of  metal particles all around the cut.
in  cutting this flat, i am recommending a departure from the original  configuration.
while holding this position, grind just enough to create a flat on the bottom that is shaped like an elongated diamond.
it's probably cheaper and easier to buy the ceramic knife,  since it'll last essentially forever -- and if it does get dull, you can  sharpen it with a diamond hone (but not an arkansas stone; rub your ceramic  knife against an arkansas stone and the stone loses!).
now, obviously, flip it over and do the other side the  same way: when you're done with these flats, the gouge  viewed from the side should have a flat that looks like this: note that if the ground surface isn't shaped pretty much like that, you  probably did something wrong.
if you choose to use sandpaper, be sure to pull your gouge across the sandpaper rather than push it; pushing can cause the sandpaper to curl up a bit just ahead of the gouge and dull it rather than sharpen it.
if youare using a powered grinder, please note that the tip of a gouge is pretty tiny and will overheat quickly if you're not careful.
with the ceramic knife held in this position, roll it until one side of the knife is sitting flat against one side of the v of the gouge.
looks like you're ruining your gouge,  doesn't it?  aaaaack!
this is a minor and quick step, but it makes all the difference in how well  your gouge will carve because it's this area that slides across the rubber when  carving.
the problem with these things is that they typically have rows of holes all over the surface, which may help sharpening knives somehow but it just causes grief honing gouges.
if at all possible, the  above two methods are preferred.
once you have both sides honed to form an actual cutting edge at the face of the v, you will know perfectly well how to hold the gouge with one side or the other against the hone while rubbing.
you can also buy a ceramic knife at walmart.