when it comes to handling, ceramic knives are extremely lightweight and that may appeal to many because it reduces hand fatigue and requires less effort for certain slicing tasks.
quality steel knives can be honed with aknife steel or sharpened to  restore the fine edge.
- about.com - home & garden - housewares / appliances housewares / appliances search free housewares / appliances newsletter!
a part of the new york times company.
the hardness of the  ceramic gives these knives their long-lasting good looks, as well as a razor  sharp edge that does not require sharpening for years.
as for the knife handles, a well-designed ceramic  knife will have a comfortable handle that completes the well-balanced feel, as  well as provide a safe, sure grip.
when it  comes to storing, ceramic knives require a protective sheath or proper storage  container, something that is also recommended for sharp quality steel knives.
don't let the  lightweight nature fool you; you can get the same great control as you would  with a more weighty steel knife.
you can find very cheap steel knives, some of which have better qualities than others, with various degrees of durability.
unlike steel knives which can be used for various slicing/dicing/chopping tasks, ceramic knives are limited in use mainly to slicing fruits, vegetables and boneless meats.
a chef's knife is  best for carving, slicing and so on.
a chef's knife is best for carving, slicing and so on.
no, ceramic knives will never fully replace your  traditional steel kitchen knives.
that means that if you drop a ceramic knife or attempt to cut bone or frozen foods with one, it can break or chip.
ceramic knives tend to live a mysterious life so to speak and are very particular in what they can do, how they should be handled and how they should be stored.
manufacturers are looking for ways to make their  ceramic knives more versatile and durable.
the ceramic blade is stronger than  steel but unfortunately, is more fragile because it is more brittle.
they should never be stored in a drawer with other (steel) knives.
it all depends of course on the quality and  design of the knife.
the avid  professional and home chef though, will find ceramic knives worth the care and  they will probably have an assortment of ceramic to complement their cutlery  essentials.
will ceramic knives replace  steel knives?
what's a granton edge?
there's also a  diversity ofknife handles.
and while some brands have limitations when it comes to certain vegetables and fruits, others do not list such notables.
because they are  very sharp and brittle, ceramic knives must be stored in a custom sleeve or  box.
that's mainly because they are limited when  it comes to use.
they are meant to be used for slicing only, but this may change in the future with industry advancements.
this sharpness makes slicing easier, allows precise  cuts and extremely thin slices.
ceramic knives tend to live a mysterious life so to speak and are very  particular in what they can do, how they should be handled and how they should  be stored.
read reviews of the paring knives shown in the  illustration: zx kitchen black ceramic paring knife review saber high  quality steel kitchen knife review compare prices of ceramic knives compare prices of knives splurge  or save on cutlery knives knife safety & sharpening video
a high quality kitchen knife will be full tang, have a comfortable handle, be well-balanced and sport a forged  high-carbon steel blade for better edge retention.
read reviews of the paring knives shown in the illustration: zx kitchen black ceramic paring knife review saber high quality steel kitchen knife review compare prices of ceramic knives compare prices of knives kitchen knives buying tips splurge or save on cutlery knives knife safety & sharpening video
they are not cut from the same cloth and  that would be like comparing apples to peaches.
that said, a ceramic knife might become your go-to knife  for slicing tomatoes or vegetables, simply because of handling and performance  preferences.
as for price, ceramic knives  may seem more expensive, but a high quality steel knife can also set you back a  few bucks.
quality ceramic knives are made of materials that are stronger than  diamonds, usually zirconium oxide.
that is why many chefs  love using ceramic knives.
they are  meant to be used for slicing only, but this may change in the future with  industry advancements.
ceramic and steel paring knives photo © mifflin
the type of steel used in regular kitchen knives will influence how long the blades will hold their edge, as well  as corrosion resistance and so on.
quality ceramic knives are made of materials that are stronger than diamonds, usually zirconium oxide.
a look at steel knives: steel knives come in various sizes, styles and steel quality.
manufacturers are looking for ways to make their ceramic knives more versatile and durable.
unlike steel knives which can be used for various  slicing/dicing/chopping tasks, ceramic knives are limited in use mainly to  slicing fruits, vegetables and boneless meats.
and asantoku knife is ideal for chopping, dicing and slicing onions, vegetables and numerous other cutting tasks.
consumers should take care not to judge a ceramic by the  same principles they do a steel knife.
the extra care needed for ceramic knives will probably deter some  consumers, especially those who prefer carefree kitchen knives.
quality steel knives can be honed with aknife steel or sharpened to restore the fine edge.
when it comes to storing, ceramic knives require a protective sheath or proper storage container, something that is also recommended for sharp quality steel knives.
see more about: - type of humidifier - before you buy a humidifier - top-loading washing machine vs. front-loading: which is bett… - super simple smoothie recipe - caring for your he washer
why ceramic knives are a different  breed of knife ceramic knives on the other hand, are not as  diverse as sizes and styles go and are generally limited to a few practical  lengths.
if you're a little confused about the differences between these two knives, you're not alone.
save money - how to set the table - humidifiers - faq's
most ceramic blades are white, though there  is a growing number of grey and black ceramic knives.
unlike a steel knife, a ceramic blade will not  rust, pit or leave a metallic taste on foods.
you  can find very cheap steel knives, some of which have better qualities than  others, with various degrees of durability.
as for the knife handles, a well-designed ceramic knife will have a comfortable handle that completes the well-balanced feel, as well as provide a safe, sure grip.
that means using them for what they were intended for, washing by hand, drying andstoring them safely to avoid injury and damage to the knives.
for instance, you would use a more flexible boning knife to debone chicken or filet fish.
the avid professional and home chef though, will find ceramic knives worth the care and they will probably have an assortment of ceramic to complement their cutlery essentials.
it all depends of course on the quality and design of the knife.
according to some manufactures,  you can slice cheese with a ceramic knife, but not all agree.
for instance, you would use a more flexible boning knife to debone  chicken or filet fish.
why ceramic knives are a different breed of knife ceramic knives on the other hand, are not as diverse as sizes and styles go and are generally limited to a few practical lengths.
good quality steel knives need proper handling and care in order to be free of rust, pitting and to maintain a sharp edge.
and asantoku knife is ideal for chopping, dicing and  slicing onions, vegetables and numerous other cutting tasks.
there are basically two main types of kitchen knives, the traditional steel blade knife and the new kid on the block, the ceramic knife.
as such, ceramic knives would nicely expand your  selection of knives.
as for price, ceramic knives may seem more expensive, but a high quality steel knife can also set you back a few bucks.
a high quality kitchen knife will be full tang, have a comfortable handle, be well-balanced and sport a forged high-carbon steel blade for better edge retention.
the hardness of the ceramic gives these knives their long-lasting good looks, as well as a razor sharp edge that does not require sharpening for years.
note that these use and care tips are provided as a general guide only and you should always consult the product manual for brand-specific manufacturer's recommendations for any knife you buy.
there are basically two main types of kitchen knives, the traditional steel  blade knife and the new kid on the block, the ceramic knife.
though  some manufacturers say their ceramic knives can be washed in a dishwasher, most  recommend hand washing and i agree.
there's quite an assortment ofblade lengths , styles and knife features when it comes to steel knives.
that means  that if you drop a ceramic knife or attempt to cut bone or frozen foods with  one, it can break or chip.
the type of steel used in regular kitchen knives will influence how long the blades will hold their edge, as well as corrosion resistance and so on.
over time, a steel knife will usually show its age from general use.
blades will retain their sharp  edge for a long time and must be sharpened either by the manufacturer or with a  brand-specific specially designed ceramic knife sharpener.
consumers should take care not to judge a ceramic by the same principles they do a steel knife.
that's mainly because they are limited when it comes to use.
sign up - housewares / appliances - appliances - house essentials - cooling & heating discuss in my forum ceramic vs steel kitchen knives - understanding the differences the difference between a ceramic knife and a steel blade kitchen knife by mariette mifflin, about.com guide see more about: - cutlery - cookware - cutting boards - chef's tools ceramic and steel paring knives photo © mifflin
other things that should  be avoided is twisting, scraping or bending the ceramic blade and subjecting it  to extreme temperatures.
this sharpness makes slicing easier, allows precise cuts and extremely thin slices.
different  styles of steel knives affect function when it comes to boning, slicing or  dicing.
different styles of steel knives affect function when it comes to boning, slicing or dicing.
that is why many chefs love using ceramic knives.
other things that should be avoided is twisting, scraping or bending the ceramic blade and subjecting it to extreme temperatures.
there's also less variety of styles and lengths of ceramic  knives so you would still need steel knives for various cutting tasks.
if you're a little  confused about the differences between these two knives, you're not alone.
they are not cut from the same cloth and that would be like comparing apples to peaches.
note that some high-end knife manufacturers do recommend  their knives be returned for professional sharpening.
more about kitchen knives go to home page more about kitchen cutlery - zx kitchen black ceramic knives precision set review - before you buy kitchen knives - kitchen knife buying tips - saber knives high-quality german steel knives reviews more about knives - safe & convenient kitchen knife storage - chef's choice model 130 sharpening station review - best steak knife sets - cutlery steak knives more about chef's tools related articles - basic simple knife sharpening - cutting board basics - how to use a knife steel video - knife sharpening 101 - how to use a kitchen knife - lessons about using a knife - kitchen safety k... - gift ideas for 2010 - gift ideas $200 or less - kitchen cutlery buying guide – guide to buying knives and cutlery for... - cutlery knives - splurge or save on cutlery knives mariette mifflin housewares / appliances guide - sign up for my newsletter related searches carbon steel blade steel knives ceramic knives high carbon steel new kid on the block kitchen knives explore housewares / appliances must reads most popular - valentine's day 2012 tips & gifts - the best appliance
will ceramic knives replace steel knives?
the ceramic blade is stronger than steel but unfortunately, is more fragile because it is more brittle.
and these two types of knives should never, ever nest together.
every time - save energy;
because they are very sharp and brittle, ceramic knives must be stored in a custom sleeve or box.
according to some manufactures, you can slice cheese with a ceramic knife, but not all agree.
though some manufacturers say their ceramic knives can be washed in a dishwasher, most recommend hand washing and i agree.
good quality steel  knives need proper handling and care in order to be free of rust, pitting and  to maintain a sharp edge.
note that some high-end knife manufacturers do recommend their knives be returned for professional sharpening.
- privacy policy - your ad choices ©2012 about.com.
most ceramic blades are white, though there is a growing number of grey and black ceramic knives.
and while some  brands have limitations when it comes to certain vegetables and fruits, others  do not list such notables.
don't let the lightweight nature fool you; you can get the same great control as you would with a more weighty steel knife.
and remember that ceramic knives require less sharpening.
as such, ceramic knives would nicely expand your selection of knives.
the extra care needed for ceramic knives will probably deter some consumers, especially those who prefer carefree kitchen knives.
when it comes to handling, ceramic knives  are extremely lightweight and that may appeal to many because it reduces hand  fatigue and requires less effort for certain slicing tasks.
unlike a steel knife, a ceramic blade will not rust, pit or leave a metallic taste on foods.
no, ceramic knives will never fully replace your traditional steel kitchen knives.
over time, a steel knife will usually show its age from general  use.
blades will retain their sharp edge for a long time and must be sharpened either by the manufacturer or with a brand-specific specially designed ceramic knife sharpener.
note that these use and care tips are provided as a general guide only and  you should always consult the product manual for brand-specific manufacturer's  recommendations for any knife you buy.
that said, a ceramic knife might become your go-to knife for slicing tomatoes or vegetables, simply because of handling and performance preferences.
there's also less variety of styles and lengths of ceramic knives so you would still need steel knives for various cutting tasks.
that means using them for what they were intended  for, washing by hand, drying andstoring them safely to avoid injury and damage  to the knives.
by category - cutlery - cookware - cutting boards - chef's tools - large appliances - small appliances - air, water & recycling - brands, mfrs & retailers - canning & home preserving - consumer awareness - cookware - cooling & heating - gifts & hosting - glossary - essential home products - kitchen & tableware - laundry & fabric care - store, clean & organize - vacuum & floor care housewares / appliances - about.com - home & garden - housewares / appliances - kitchen & tableware - cutlery & knives - kitchen knives - ceramic versus steel - understanding the differences - most popular - latest articles - rss - advertise on about.com - our story - news & events - work at about - sitemap - all topics - reprints - help - write for about - user agreement - ethics policy - patent info.
there's also a diversity ofknife handles.