:-) by dawn t another south paw weighs in...
if you are already a rouxbe student, pleaselogin.
i'm worried about doing lasting damage by using an improper angle.
by jim s permalink thanks for the videos... particularly the step for positioning your guide hand.
as for your hand position, you seem to be on the right track.
just so you know, the pinky and ring are the gimpy ones of the bunch.
however, i happen to lose my edge often so i have to use a stone.
also, the advice in the video is for the home chef to hone once a day.
are mistakes easily undone or should a novice really be careful before attempting to hone a knife?
it is fine to adjust to another variation that is comfortable to you, just remember to find a position whereby if you were to slip, you simply cannot cut yourself.
users currently in forums kimberley s nancy h milena r colleen v noel g glenna r enriordansteph a  patrick d saku s handling a chef's knife ←
we'll be covering this in a few weeks so stick with us and we'll walk you through this too.
note: individual lessons purchased a-la-carte do not include this service.
it seems to slice very well, but it's a little disconcerting,  since i think they're more fragile than steel knives.
thanks very much that does clarify things.
perhaps measuring on a per-use basis makes more sense.
just so you know, the pinky and ring are the  gimpy ones of the bunch.
i have to admit, that i don't even do this out of laziness (lack of time, etc).
perhaps down the road we will do a more advanced knife cut lesson, but the basics are well covered in the currentknife cut lesson.
nice to see you're lovin' your knives though :-) a good sign.
thank you i would suggest doing 15 minutes exercises with the bench scraper for 4 or 5 sessions (or more if needed).
follow the honing video on rouxbe and hone every once and while to maintain your edge.
yeah, we're good with that left hand :)
of course steeling them doesn't stop me from having to do so, but it stops me having to do so very often.
i damaged some nerves in my right hand years ago and have switched over to using my left hand for many different maneuvers, including transitioning knife chopping duties over to my left and using the right hand as the guide.
if this at all sounds like a script for disaster please advise on what i  should be doing.
i've been seeing ceramic knives lately, and i got a cheap one just to see what it's like.
great thanks very much that does clarify things.
trying to bring ol' gimpy up into position with the  middle and pointer is just very awkward, but allowing it to curl up next to the  pinky seems to work for me so far and feels "natural".
particularly the step for positioning your guide hand.
julienne, chiffonade, emince...?
...because i am actually afraid of knives.
i do not have a steel to keep the knife sharpened.
i damaged some  nerves in my right hand years ago and have switched over to using my left hand  for many different maneuvers, including transitioning knife chopping duties  over to my left and using the right hand as the guide.
i guess what i need to know is how long is too long to go without honing.
in fact, unless you are using a diamond steel, a steel doesn't sharpen an edge.
you really put my mind at ease and i can now enjoy my new knives without worry.
diamond steels do actually sharpen some of the edge, and they do hone too, so they too have some advantages.
wustof makes quality steels.
i think i'll be getting a normal  steel for now and maybe invest in those industrial diamonds down the road.
in the past, i could not figure out how to hold things down and feel that  they were secure enough for me to chop away with confidence that i won't be  bleeding into my pile of vegetables and what-not.
kimberley s nancy h milena r colleen v noel g glenna r enriordansteph a patrick d saku s i gotta tell you - it is very unnerving to watch a southpaw with a knife.
this guy that is going to do my knives does all the commercial hotels and restaurants around town and says that once i see what he can do with my knives that i won't want to use a steel, i'll just pay the $3 that he charges to get them resharpened.
good luck, let us know how it goes!
the thumb,  pinky and ring finger now anchor.
honing can not do any damage to your knives...
i am getting my knives professionally sharpened tomorrow.
plus, the real good ones  are very expensive.
by paul b hey....south paws are people too!
as for length, the longer, thicker and heavier (really) the better.
my hands are big and my grip firm, so i have not found them  to be so comfortable, but have had students with small hands that swear by them.
permalink steels i just received a beautiful 9" wustof cook's knife for christmas and  now i'm looking into purchasing a sharpening steel to keep the blade in good  shape.
so glad to hear that you are practicing with the bench scraper...this is what will give you the feeling without the fear that you have for the knife blade.
some  find them too light, too fragile.
but watching your video, i've  adapted your backward crab crawl into a gripping style that seems to suit me.
am i right in assuming that the  diamond sharpener does not hone the blade and only sharpens it (i would love to  put a question mark here but my keyboard seems to be failing me).
for cutting vegetables and fish, they're awesome, but for tougher work, they feel too fragile.
this is an online store for kitchen gear.
one thing about ceramic knives is that you either love them or not.
you don't want to be afraid when it comes to cutting with a knife.
could probably take some adjusting as i go along and would greatly appreciate  anyone else's input.
if this at all sounds like a script for disaster please advise on what i should be doing.
some find them too light, too fragile.
previous 1 2 3 4 next → south paw i gotta tell you - it is very unnerving to watch a southpaw with a knife.
is this something that i absolutely need to run out and get immediately?
is there some knife cut in particular that you wanted to learn?
by jim s rouxbe staff diamond sleek, but... diamond steels do actually sharpen some of the edge, and they do hone too,  so they too have some advantages.
i don't possess one of them and was just wondering if i can just start with my chefs knife.
i was just wondering if yall, (yes i am from the south, lol) are going to explore more knife cuts.
any comments from the chefs?
i think i'll be getting a normal steel for now and maybe invest in those industrial diamonds down the road.
for cutting vegetables and fish, they're  awesome, but for tougher work, they feel too fragile.
© 2005-2012 rouxbe video technologies inc.
trying to bring ol' gimpy up into position with the middle and pointer is just very awkward, but allowing it to curl up next to the pinky seems to work for me so far and feels "natural".
he's even agreed to buy me a good chef's knife after i prove i am going to try to use it instead of wimping out and going back to my old habits.
yeah, we're good with that left hand :) by sean d permalink ceramic i've been seeing ceramic knives lately, and i got a cheap one just to see  what it's like.
plus, the real good ones are very expensive.
i am comfortable with that - any thoughts on transitioning for someone with a phobia?
if not...a bench scraper is about $3 dollars and they are available in any kitchen store.
also, if i do use a steel on my knives regularly, how often do i need to have them professionally sharpened?
but only if they're of very good quality.
for the past 18 years i have cut everything with meat scissors or forced my husband to do it.
am i right in assuming that the diamond sharpener does not hone the blade and only sharpens it (i would love to put a question mark here but my keyboard seems to be failing me).
if in australia, check out www.everten.com.au.
(however, he is sharpening my current one for me in the mean time.)
as for length, the longer, thicker and heavier  (really) the better.
i'm a little unclear about the distinction between honing and sharpening, though, as it seems to be purely semantic.
i checked out wustof`s site and they show two types of steel: a regular sharpening steel and a diamond sharpener.
if you use your knife a lot every day, then honing everyday is the absolute best thing you can do.
i just received a nice set of chef's knives for christmas and have never used a steel before.
think of sanding down the edge of a piece of wood with sand paper.
hi, i was just wondering if its essential that i get a bench scraper to get comfortable and build a feel for the cutting motions.
i checked out wustof`s site and they show two types of steel: a regular  sharpening steel and a diamond sharpener.
and every knife will begin to lose it's edge with use over time.
as long as you keep your fingers tucked under and you go slowly, you will be fine.
and you don't have to see it, you'll hear it.
additionally  what length of steel should i be investing in assuming i will be purchasing  additional knifes as i continue my training and career (haha again question  mark).
i have been practicing with a bench scraper for about 10 minutes a day for the past few days.
a stone has a very course surface area and it actually grinds the steel down.
the thumb, pinky and ring finger now anchor.
i just received a beautiful 9" wustof cook's knife for christmas and now i'm looking into purchasing a sharpening steel to keep the blade in good shape.
many hone their knives before each use - why - because it keeps their knives sharper, longer.
if you feel totally comfortable with your chef's knife then you can certainly just practice with that.
in the past, i could not figure out how to hold things down and feel that they were secure enough for me to chop away with confidence that i won't be bleeding into my pile of vegetables and what-not.
by clark k rouxbe staff ceramic sleek, but one thing about ceramic knives is that you either love them or not.
measuring in days does not make much sense unless the knife naturally loses its edge (doubtful) as some of us will not use a knife every day.
it's great for confidence building.
it's the same only we are smarter...
it seems to slice very well, but it's a little disconcerting, since i think they're more fragile than steel knives.
a slight variation in angles will not do anything.
presently only using the middle and pointer finger as the guide.
once you are ready to move to the knife, take it slow (learning is not about speed) and remember what you practiced.
it will become second nature in no time.
by tony m permalink
could probably take some adjusting as i go along and would greatly appreciate anyone else's input.
any comments from the  chefs?
the only advice i would give you for transitioning is to keep practicing with the bench scraper until you feel really comfortable.
additionally what length of steel should i be investing in assuming i will be purchasing additional knifes as i continue my training and career (haha again question mark).
you need to do this with a stone.
that seems excessive and contrary to what you suggest ("every once and a while").
honing - maintains the edge.
you must be a rouxbe student to ask questions and comment.
my hands are big and my grip firm, so i have not found them to be so comfortable, but have had students with small hands that swear by them.
but watching your video, i've adapted your backward crab crawl into a gripping style that seems to suit me.
why not join now - you'll be cooking better, with more confidence and in less time.
i found this particularly usefull as i quite often switch hands while cooking, being ambidextrous has it's advantages at times.. :-) - paul how worried should i be about honing my knife with a steel?
very helpful going to save me some fingers joe, i use a steel on my knives every time i cut with them precisely because of laziness.
i'd rather steel them for a few seconds each time than have to spend the time with them on a stone.
sharpening creates an edge once it's lost from use.
the next time you go to a butcher shop, listen for the butchers honing in the back.