that should be "lose."... read more [ + ] staff comment katherine klinger nov 26th, 2011 @ 12:27 pm @i must edit: thank you for catching that!...
no more accidents waiting to happen.
pin it share this grommet: talk about this grommet tj scimone
hi everyone - we're very excited to have slice featured as today's grommet.
four of the slice tools -- the box cutter, safety cutter, precision cutter and letter opener -- feature ceramic blades, which are extremely sharp, durable and won’t rust like metal blades do.
add to favorites related grommets clementine art natural art supplies learn more zip-it package opener learn more uncle bill's sliver grippers precision tweezers tool learn more lifestyle crafts letterpress kit and accessories learn more karen kimmel studios creative tools and stencils learn more paper punk diy paper toys and art forms learn more get daily grommet by email get involved!
at home, in the office and at  school, these clever tools will inspire great projects.
tj works with top industrial designers -- including alfredo muccino, karim rashid, scot herbst, michael graves and yves behar --
designers of this collection include: michael graves, karim rachid, alfredo muccino and scot herbst.
copyright © 2010 daily grommet - shop - for me - for your home - health & wellness - food & drink - gifts/occasions - green/eco-living - special offers - good deeds - gift certificates - about us - citizen commerce ® - suggest a grommet - our story - blog - faqs - press - contact us - community - testimonials - partners - widgets - legal - terms of use - privacy policy
safety cutter: quick and safe substitute for scissors for scrap-booking, clipping recipes, coupons and news articles, removing  shrink-wrap, opening plastic packaging has a finger-friendly microscopic ceramic blade built-in magnet and key-ring hole letter opener:
slice is all about cutting with style, and i sincerely hope you find our products fun, useful and beautiful.
the seaweed bath co. bath and body products $12.89 - fusionbrands serveitup stand for any plate $20.00 - anne koplik designs statement rings $39.00 - love is art intimate art kit $60.00 - quartertwenty knucklehead bottle opener $28.00 - ticket kitchen hot chocolate pops $15.00 - blue orange games portable, fast-paced games $11.95 - objects with purpose natural, wearable candle $24.00 quantity buy now adding to cart...
share: got a great grommet idea?
both the safety cutter and the letter opener  are magnetic, so you won’t lose them if you stick them to  the fridge.
many  of these products incorporate ceramic blades made from high-tech zirconium  oxide, which lasts longer than steel and never rusts.
tell us about it > daily grommet: the birthplace of citizen commerce ® |
soap - green/organic - sun care - gifts - green & eco-living - best sellers - home - cleaning - health & beauty - energy savers - good deeds - best sellers - charity organizations - social enterprises - fair trade - special offers spring fever gear up for spring entertaining with bubbly drinks, festive tableware and more of our favorite party essentials.
tj... read more [ + ] special guest comment tj scimone aug 8th, 2011 @ 2:38 pm hi kannie - the most common size of book board is around 3/32 of an inch (almost 0.1" or 1/10") -- that's about the thickness of two stacked quarters.
ideal cutting and crafting set - box, safety, precision cutters, letter opener, scissors - $54.50 household set - box, safety cutters, letter opener - $24.50 safety cutter - $5.25 precision cutter - $6.00 letter opener - $4.40 stainless steel scissors - $23.95 slanted soft-touch tweezers - $19.95 box cutter - $15.00 box cutter replacement blades - $19.00 - vyshyvanka ukrainian pysanky eggs $28.00 - idapt universal charging system $60.00 - alljoy design felt tabletop accessories $19.00 - everyday artifact iconic images on silver jewelry $38.00 - sabi pill storage containers $8.99 - box play for kids eco-friendly stickers $10.00 - halftee layering top $13.59 - welcome home brands paper bakeware $24.95 - byer of maine bird houses & feeders $19.99 - folia design sf laser-cut wooden jewelry $44.00 - worker b beeswax skincare $10.00 - hudson valley seed library heirloom seeds
the precision cutter is ideal for intricate shapes with its contoured  handle, and the safety cutter makes short work of  coupon-clipping, shrink-wrap removal and even cutting through the tough  plastic of clam shell packaging.
to really rethink and redesign conventional cutting tools by focusing on ergonomics, safety and ease of use.
read more details a cut above the rest sleek, sharp and safe.
the precision cutter was mostly made for cutting thin sheets of plastic and various paper -- we are however working on a line of cutting tools for fabric --- thank you carol :)
his tools are much more than just colorful versions of existing cutters.
designers of this collection include: michael graves, karim rachid, alfredo muccino and scot herbst.
$18.75 - gigamic games
slice’s stainless steel scissors are a fit for left- and right-handed users, and the slanted soft-touch tweezers do double-duty in the medicine cabinet and craft room.
— ann *founder interview footage courtesy of core 77.
i love you daily grommet but please: "both the safety cutter and the letter opener are magnetic, so you won’t loose them if you stick them to the fridge."
- suggest a grommet - citizens' gallery - email signup - for me - virtual gift certificate - best sellers - fashion problem solvers - women - men - teens - children - baby - jewelry - electronics & gadgets - crafts & hobbies - made in the usa - handcrafted - games & toys - travel - gear & outdoor - pets - art - entertainment - stationery - green - services - for home - best sellers - problem solvers - spring cleaning - kitchen - decor - organization - outdoor living - bed & bath - entertaining - green - handcrafted - safety - work space - garden - electronics - laundry - cleaning - tools - gifts - pets - made in the usa - food & drink - best sellers - baked goods - drinks - sweets & snacks - gifts & accessories - wine accessories - meat & seafood - organic/natural - pantry & spices - gifts & occasions - virtual gift certificate - easter & spring gifting - spring entertaining - march to the madness - for her - for him - for kids - for teens - for grandparents - for baby - for fun - games and toys - business - host/
beautifully crafted strategy games $24.95 - joolz hayworth bracelets $56.00 - hyper wear weighted vest and sandbells $7.99 - designing solutions slobproof!
the precision cutter is ideal for intricate shapes with its contoured handle, and the safety cutter makes short work of coupon-clipping, shrink-wrap removal and even cutting through the tough plastic of clam shell packaging.
tj scimone founded slice to help fund long-term care for his son, alex, who  is autistic (slice donates at least 1% of product sales to autism research).
see our spring entertaining collection share with your friends
the trifecta of smart design is what makes these cutting and craft tools so appealing for all your tasks, projects and hobbies.
paint pen $19.99 - roux maison laundry detergent $8.00 - the smart baker kitchen measuring tools $10.48 - monkey pod games brain teasers and games $29.95 - parissa natural hair removal $8.99 - malpaca alpaca pillows $179.00 - 479° popcorn gourmet popcorn & kits $16.00 -
you must have javascript enabled in your browser to utilize the functionality of this website.
tj  works with top industrial designers -- including alfredo muccino, karim rashid,  scot herbst, michael graves and yves behar -- to really rethink and redesign  conventional cutting tools by focusing on ergonomics, safety and ease of use.
slice’s stainless steel scissors are a fit for left- and  right-handed users, and the slanted soft-touch tweezers do double-duty  in the medicine cabinet and craft room.
read more [ + ] carol aug 8th, 2011 @ 2:52 pm will the precision cutter work on fabric?
i would love to answer any questions you may have for me tod... read more [ + ] i must edit nov 26th, 2011 @ 11:05 am
the worlds first box cutter with a ceramic blade - handle features a non-slip, easy-hold finish - protects your hand by wrapping around your fist - includes one double-sided ceramic blade - stays sharp 10x longer than steel - fully retractable and adjustable length blade - easy access blade storage - tool free replacement - less blade means reduced injuries - designed by scot herbst and alfredo muccino - 2011 red dot design award winner - box cutter replacement blades: - razor-sharp ceramic replacement blades - for use only with the slice™ ceramic box cutter - case contains four (4) dual-sided, rounded-tip ceramic blades - 1 ceramic blade =
20 metal blades - 10x sharper and never rusts - each blade: 1.3 inches in length - tweezers: - wide comfortable grip - rubberized soft-touch finish for precision - two perfectly aligned slanted edges - hand-filed precision tips - ideal for professional brow shaping or craft projects - professional grade stainless steel - designed by michael graves recent grommets price range $440 - $5450 options choose an option...
cotton quilting fabric, to be exact - one or two layers?
many of these products incorporate ceramic blades made from high-tech zirconium oxide, which lasts longer than steel and never rusts.
i'd like more precision than i can get with a rotary cutter around curves and intricate shapes....
the trifecta of smart design is what makes these  cutting and craft tools so appealing for all your tasks, projects and hobbies.
tj scimone founded slice to help fund long-term care for his son, alex, who is autistic (slice donates at least 1% of product sales to autism research).
at home, in the office and at school, these clever tools will inspire great projects.
built-in safety innovations (like the box cutter’s non-slip protective handle) keep the blades away from fingers.
read more a cut above the rest sleek, sharp and safe.
javascript seem to be disabled in your browser.
read more [ + ] special guest comment tj scimone aug 8th, 2011 @ 2:59 pm @carol: hi carol - thanks for your question.
- safety cutter: - quick and safe substitute for scissors - for scrap-booking, clipping recipes, coupons and news articles, removing shrink-wrap, opening plastic packaging - has a finger-friendly microscopic ceramic blade - built-in magnet and key-ring hole - letter opener: - ceramic blade - eliminates paper cuts - stays sharp and never rusts - lightweight non-slip finish - built-in magnet for easy storage - precision cutter: - safer than craft knives - stays sharp and never rusts - ideal for intricate shapes - designed by karim rashid - stainless steel scissors: - sharp powerful blades - japanese stainless steel - lay-flat design - designed by karim rashid - box cutter: -
both the safety cutter and the letter opener are magnetic, so you won’t lose them if you stick them to the fridge.
built-in safety innovations (like  the box cutter’s non-slip protective handle) keep the blades away from  fingers.
the precision cutter has a ceramic tip thats about .07" deep, which is one of the reasons it's so... read more [ + ] add a comment view all comments (6) slice cutting and craft tools - ideal cutting and crafting set - box, safety, precision cutters, letter opener, scissors - household set - box, safety cutters, letter opener - safety cutter - precision cutter - letter opener - stainless steel scissors - slanted soft-touch tweezers - box cutter - box cutter replacement blades high-performance tools designed for greater ease of use and greater safety.
four of the slice tools -- the box cutter, safety cutter, precision cutter  and letter opener -- feature ceramic blades, which are extremely sharp, durable  and won’t rust like metal blades do.
hostess - wedding - thank you - health & wellness - best sellers - problem solvers - safety first - fitness - personal care - nutrition & health - sports - bath, shower,
box cutter box cutter replacement blades high-performance tools designed for greater ease of use and greater  safety.