what are ceramic scissors made of? will ceramic scissors shatter or break if i drop them?
kyocera advanced  ceramic knives are made in japan.
first, it's dangerous if someone forgets about the knife or reaches in the wrong way.
you can resharpen your ceramic knife by using our resharpening service.
like forged steel scissors, however, you can break the tip if the scissors land on the tip (very uncommon).
revolution 5” micro-serrated utility knife “easily serves up perfectly sliced vegetables, from paper thin to moderately thick.”
usa global default welcome msg!
these knives are made  of an advanced, high-tech ceramic called zirconium oxide (also called  zirconia).
will ceramic scissors break if i drop them?
who do i contact if i want to sell kyocera knives in my store?
for more information about this service, click here.
email us at cpd@kyocera.com.
ceramic is  harder than all metals, so it is the ideal surface to re-sharpen these softer  materials.
a black (hip) blade is made out of a black zirconium oxide and  offers extra durability.
how do i say "kyocera" correctly?
this material, which is second in hardness only to diamond, was originally developed for industrial applications where metal components failed.
finally, ceramic knives are  very easy to clean with a hand washing or mild bleach solution (blade only).
even so, ceramic knives are intended to complement -- not replace -- your other cutlery.
a black (hip) blade is made out of a black zirconium oxide and offers extra durability.
adjustable mandoline slicer
zirconium oxide is extremely hard, wear resistant, and chemically  inert.
revolution 5” micro-serrated  utility knife popular mechanics “easily serves up perfectly sliced vegetables, from paper thin to  moderately thick.”
we manufacture a wide  variety of products including semiconductor packages, capacitors, thermal print  heads, resistors, cutting tool inserts, circuit substrates, lcd panels, fiber  optic components, car engine components, solar modules, laser printers,  wielding nozzles, cellular/phs phones, pump components, synthetic gemstones,  thread and wire guides, antenna mounts, and lots of other neat stuff!
ceramic  scissors will not shatter when dropped.
top video "we shaved tomatoes into translucent discs and carved a whole-grain  loaf into playing-card-thin toast.”
second, you can break off the tip or  snap off the handle if you use it to pry or twist.
second, violent motion  against other objects, especially hard plates, could chip the objects and/or  the knife.
we also offer a  ceramic knife sharpener for kyocera knives.
you can store your kyocera ceramic knife in a conventional knife block, in an in-drawer tray, or in the package.
you can  also damage ceramic scissors by trying to cut very thick material or by trying  to bend the blades.
second, you can break off the tip or snap off the handle if you use it to pry or twist.
to check for the nearest retailer, go to where to buy.
for slicing fruits, vegetables and boneless meats, a kyocera advanced ceramic knife has no equal.
what is the difference between a black-hip blade and a white blade?
third, dishwashers ruin wood handles.
these scissors are  made of an advanced, high-tech ceramic called zirconium oxide (also called  zirconia).
even so, ceramic knives are intended to complement -- not replace --  your other cutlery.
we do  not recommend this for several reasons.
these knives are made of an advanced, high-tech ceramic called zirconium oxide (also called zirconia).
top video "we shaved tomatoes into translucent discs and carved a whole-grain loaf into playing-card-thin toast.”
this type of blade goes through an extra firing process called a "hot-isostatic press," creating a tighter weave between the ceramic molecules, thus creating a tougher blade.
like forged steel scissors, however,  you can break the tip if the scissors land on the tip (very uncommon).
email us at cpd@kyocera.com.
you can also damage ceramic scissors by trying to cut very thick material or by trying to bend the blades.
all kyocera knives comes with a lifetimewarranty.
any knife,  whether stainless steel or ceramic, will potentially break at the tip if its  dropped on a hard surface at a certain angle.
for more information,  please see our care and use instructions.
to check for  the nearest retailer, go to where to buy.
kyocera advanced ceramic knives are made in japan.
for the technically minded, zirconium oxide has a hardness of 8.2 mohs (vs. steel at 5-6 mohs and diamond at 10 mohs).
(pdf/105kb) where should i store my kyocera ceramic knife?
how should i use my kyocera ceramic knife?
we service retailers both directly and through our network of manufacturer's representatives.
it's a great at-home solution to  refreshen and resharpen kyocera blades.
finally, ceramic knives are very easy to clean with a hand washing or mild bleach solution (blade only).
kyocera is one of the  world's leaders in advanced ceramics and electronics.
for  the technically minded, zirconium oxide has a hardness of 8.2 mohs (vs. steel  at 5-6 mohs and diamond at 10 mohs).
frequently asked questions frequently asked questions how do i sharpen a kyocera ceramic knife?
where are kyocera knives made?
for more information about this service,  click here.
use steel knives for carving, prying, boning, cutting frozen foods, and slicing cheese.
for slicing  fruits, vegetables and boneless meats, a kyocera advanced ceramic knife has no  equal.
kyocera is one of the world's leaders in advanced ceramics and electronics.
you can resharpen  your ceramic knife by using our resharpening service.
the white ceramic  blade is also made out of zirconium oxide but does not go through this  expensive sintering process.
unfortunately, accidental damage can occur so we do offer resharpening services.
ceramic is harder than all metals, so it is the ideal surface to re-sharpen these softer materials.
for the technically minded, zirconium oxide has a hardness of 8.2 mohs  (vs. steel at 5-6 mohs and diamond at 10 mohs).
the correct pronunciation is "key-o-sarah," which comes from "kyoto ceramics," the original name of the company.
all kyocera  knives comes with a lifetimewarranty.
for more information, please see our care and use instructions.
this material, which is second in hardness only to diamond, was  originally developed for industrial applications where metal components failed.
how do i sharpen ceramic knives?
these scissors are made of an advanced, high-tech ceramic called zirconium oxide (also called zirconia).
only kyocera advanced ceramic knives can be sharpened with this service.
can i use a ceramic sharpening rod on a ceramic knife?
it's a great at-home solution to refreshen and resharpen kyocera blades.
we also offer a ceramic knife sharpener for kyocera knives.
yes, many of blades on our peelers can be replaced.
we do not recommend this for several reasons.
yes, many of blades on  our peelers can be replaced.
always use them on a  plastic or wood cutting board and avoid cutting on marble, stone or  inappropriate surfaces like plates or kitchen tile.
only kyocera  advanced ceramic knives can be sharpened with this service.
do you replace peeler blades?
always use them on a plastic or wood cutting board and avoid cutting on marble, stone or inappropriate surfaces like plates or kitchen tile.
zirconium oxide is extremely hard, wear resistant, and chemically inert.
unfortunately, accidental damage  can occur so we do offer resharpening services.
will a ceramic knife break if i drop it?
where can i buy kyocera ceramic knives?
how do i care for a ceramic knife?
what are ceramic knives made of?
what else does kyocera make?
first, you  can chip the edge if you cut into bones.
what are the uses for different knives and kitchen tools?
what are ceramic scissors made of?
second, violent motion against other objects, especially hard plates, could chip the objects and/or the knife.
the ceramic sharpeners are used to sharpen all steel-based knives,  including titanium because the same hardness principle applies.
the answers to these questions and  more are readily available.
you must have javascript enabled in your browser to utilize the functionality of this website.
the white ceramic blade is also made out of zirconium oxide but does not go through this expensive sintering process.
what is the ceramic knife  warranty?
can i put my ceramic knife in the dishwasher?
the  correct pronunciation is "key-o-sarah," which comes from "kyoto  ceramics," the original name of the company.
avoid flexing or prying.
the ceramic sharpeners are used to sharpen all steel-based knives, including titanium because the same hardness principle applies.
we manufacture a wide variety of products including semiconductor packages, capacitors, thermal print heads, resistors, cutting tool inserts, circuit substrates, lcd panels, fiber optic components, car engine components, solar modules, laser printers, wielding nozzles, cellular/phs phones, pump components, synthetic gemstones, thread and wire guides, antenna mounts, and lots of other neat stuff!
how can i damage a ceramic knife?
where should i store my kyocera ceramic knife?
we service retailers both  directly and through our network of manufacturer's representatives.
use steel knives for carving, prying, boning, cutting  frozen foods, and slicing cheese.
ceramic scissors will not shatter when dropped.
first, it's dangerous if someone  forgets about the knife or reaches in the wrong way.
javascript seem to be disabled in your browser.
do kyocera knives come with a warranty?
first, you can chip the edge if you cut into bones.
you can  store your kyocera ceramic knife in a conventional knife block, in an in-drawer  tray, or in the package.
any knife, whether stainless steel or ceramic, will potentially break at the tip if its dropped on a hard surface at a certain angle.
ceramic blades are strong, but not flexible.
this type of blade goes through an extra firing  process called a "hot-isostatic press," creating a tighter weave  between the ceramic molecules, thus creating a tougher blade.