mr. toohey graduated from the culinary institute of america, where a stray cut  could lead to an apoplectic professor, much less a failed class.
julienne produces thin strips appropriate for garnish (crudites) or frying  (french fries).
slice the  vegetable lengthwise, then stack the slices, align the edges, and make parallel  cuts of the same thickness through the stack.
bake rounds in middle  of oven 8 to 10 minutes, or until heated through.
they sharpen easily, but are prone to  corrosion and discoloration.
there are four basic sizes of dice.
to master the cut, properly julienne the fruit or vegetable, then cut crosswise at evenly spaced intervals to make a cube.
a chiffonade cut produces long, thin ribbons of leafy vegetables or herbs and is frequently used for garnish.
coming soon the cutting edge - how to pick a chef knife after  reading that local chefs rita calvert and ken upton described a good knife as  their most treasured kitchen tool, several of my friends and neighbors asked me  if knives are truly important.
imagine how chopped shallots taste, look and feel  differently than minced.
while usually thinner and lighter, the  design of stamped knives requires a firmer grip and more pressure when  chopping, mincing and dicing.
mr. smith doesn't advocate purchasing knife block sets sold by mass retailers.
the blade of a stamped knife is fitted into its handle, so the knife is not  considered one fluid and integral piece.
slice the vegetable lengthwise, then stack the slices, align the edges, and make parallel cuts of the same thickness through the stack.
almost every recipe in a cook's repertoire involves cutting of some type, making a knife the most frequently used tool in the kitchen.
when cutting,  always hold the knife with your dominant hand, using the fingertips of your  opposite hand to hold the object you are cutting.
gaps  or seams in the handle or between the parts of the knife will cause  deterioration and can also harbor harmful bacteria.
during production, a steel bar is heated to a very high temperature, set into a die and hammered to form a blade.
these recipes should help you practice your knife skills, use some of those vegetables you purchased over the weekend at the market, and encourage some culinary meditation.
he reminded me  that when taking the rigorous master chef exam, many applicants have been  rejected based on their knife skills alone.
they aren't cheap, however, and given their brittle nature, they may break and chip more easily than a carbon stainless blade.
ceramic knives came on the scene  about 10 years ago, and are prized for their sharpness and precision.
a good knife will  be durable: it should last for years with proper maintenance and regular  sharpening.
a high carbon stainless steel blade  is an alloy combining the best of both worlds: it doesn't discolor or corrode,  sharpens easily and holds an edge.
stir in tomato puree, garlic, herbs, salt and pepper to taste and cool ratatouille completely.
instead, focus on purchasing  just two good knives: a french or chef's knife and a paring knife.
it should have a full tang (see  diagram at left), (as opposed to a 3/4 or "rattail" tang), which  provides optimal support, strength and balance.
the bolster should be integrated into the blade, not as a separate collar, so that it can provide adequate protection to fingers and knuckles.
heat the butter in a saute pan over medium heat.
small dice is a  bit larger at 1/4 inch, while medium dice is 1/3 inch and large dice is
there are numerous basic knife cuts, too many to mention here, so mr. toohey identified the most important: a mince is a very fine, even cut appropriate for herbs, garlic and shallots.
to make ratatouille: cut eggplant, zucchini, yellow squash and bell peppers into 1/4-inch dice.
good knife  skills are important, largely because the size, shape and consistency of cut  foods determine cooking time, and thereby the taste, texture and even  presentation of a dish.
to chiffonade basil leaves, stack  the leaves on top of each other, then make fine parallel cuts across the leaves  to produce fine shreds.
chef rita calvert has mentioned to me many times that practicing her knife skills is a mentally and spiritually therapeutic exercise.
to be effective, a cook  should have quality, reliable tools, especially when it comes to knives, which  are inherently risky if uncomfortable to use, dull or inefficient.
during production,  a steel bar is heated to a very high temperature, set into a die and hammered  to form a blade.
they sharpen easily, but are prone to corrosion and discoloration.
mr. toohey teaches two ways to hold a knife, whether by the tang or the blade.
what makes a good knife?
professional knives, which by their manufacture and design are sharp and well balanced, do just one thing very well: they cut.
dice an onion too big and you may have salsa rather than dip; slice it too small and you may have charred bits rather than savory silkiness.
kerry smith, owner of a cook's revenge on main street in downtown annapolis,  provided an insightful refresher course on knives.
they are  10 times sharper than steel with no surface tension.
forged knives will always include a bolster and a tang.
when cutting, always hold the knife with your dominant hand, using the fingertips of your opposite hand to hold the object you are cutting.
drizzle each salad with about 1 teaspoon vinaigrette and garnish with halved red and yellow cherry tomatoes.
add the julienned vegetables and saute,  tossing frequently, until heated through and tender.
season the  vegetables with the salt and pepper and add the chopped herbs.
the blade of a stamped knife is fitted into its handle, so the knife is not considered one fluid and integral piece.
guacamole from "cocina de la familia" by marilyn tausend 1 medium ripe tomato, finely chopped 2 tablespoons minced white onion 1 fresh jalapeno chili, seeded and finely chopped 3 very ripe avocados 1/4 lightly packed, finely minced cilantro leaves juice of 1/2 lime 1 teaspoon extra-virgin olive oil sea salt place the tomato, onion and chile in a molcajete or bowl and mash a bit, but leave it chunky.
knife safety knives should come with one of those universal disclaimers stating the  obvious: improper use can lead to serious injury.
while rounds are baking, toss mesclun with 1/4 cup vinaigrette in a large bowl and divide among 8 plates.
remember me - chefs forum - chefs gallery - rate employers - chefs network - chef tools - suppliers offers - recipes - search job adverts - view all job adverts - news article archive - links - support for chefsworld - coming soon the cutting edge - how to pick a chef knife after reading that local chefs rita calvert and ken upton described a good knife as their most treasured kitchen tool, several of my friends and neighbors asked me if knives are truly important.
season the vegetables with the salt and pepper and add the chopped herbs.
to master the cut, properly julienne the fruit or  vegetable, then cut crosswise at evenly spaced intervals to make a cube.
we provide the facility for  chef employers and chef recruitment agencies to advertise their jobs online to  recruit a chef or find a chef online.
on a work surface, put a 3-inch metal pastry ring (at least 11/2 inches high) or other mold in middle of 1 parchment square and fill it with 1/3 cup ratatouille, pressing evenly and tightly into bottom of your mold.
forged knives will always  include a bolster and a tang.
top ratatouille in ring with goat cheese disk, pressing lightly at edges  to cover ratatouille completely.
according to him, these sets contain many knives you don't need and may never use due to lack of comfort or knowledge.
julienne produces thin strips appropriate for garnish (crudites) or frying (french fries).
stainless steel blades won't rust or corrode, but are more difficult to sharpen.
brunoise is a very small dice, precisely 1/8 inch on each side.
the design of  a knife directly affects its balance, sharpness and longevity.
from "the new professional chef, 5th edition" by the culinary institute of america 2 yellow squash, cut in long julienne 2 zucchini, cut in long julienne 2 leeks, cut in long julienne whole butter, as needed sea salt and freshly ground pepper, to taste 2 tablespoons fresh tarragon, basil, cilantro and oregano, minced toss the yellow squash, zucchini and leeks together to mix evenly.
of course, having a knife and using it well are two different things.
to julienne vegetables of an uneven shape, such as carrots, trim the vegetable so that the sides are straight, which will make future cuts much easier.
mr. smith doesn't advocate purchasing knife block sets sold by mass  retailers.
make 7 more rounds in same manner with remaining parchment squares, ratatouille and goat cheese.
for  ratatouille: 1 long narrow japanese eggplant 1 small zucchini 1 small red bell pepper 1 small green bell pepper 3 tablespoons olive oil 1 small red onion, chopped fine 1 medium  vine-ripened tomato, seeded and pureed (about 1/2 cup) 2 teaspoons minced  garlic 3 tablespoons finely chopped fresh parsley leaves 2 tablespoons  finely chopped fresh basil leaves 1 tablespoon finely chopped fresh thyme  leaves 12 ounces soft mild goat cheese at room temperature 8 ounces  mesclun (mixed baby greens) to make vinaigrette: in a blender or small food  processor, blend all vinaigrette ingredients with salt and pepper to taste  until smooth.
it should have a full tang (see diagram at left), (as opposed to a 3/4 or "rattail" tang), which provides optimal support, strength and balance.
while rounds are  baking, toss mesclun with 1/4 cup vinaigrette in a large bowl and divide among  8 plates.
to chiffonade basil leaves, stack the leaves on top of each other, then make fine parallel cuts across the leaves to produce fine shreds.
it should be well balanced in your  hand with ease of cutting motion.
the design of a knife directly affects its balance, sharpness and longevity.
bring  vinaigrette to room temperature before using on salads.
the bolster should be  integrated into the blade, not as a separate collar, so that it can provide  adequate protection to fingers and knuckles.
mr. smith highlighted the five most important factors to consider when purchasing a professional knife: the knife should be comfortable to hold: it should feel substantial but not too heavy, which can lead to fatigue and strain.
2 teaspoons minced garlic 3 tablespoons finely chopped fresh parsley leaves 2 tablespoons finely chopped fresh basil leaves 1 tablespoon finely chopped fresh thyme leaves 12 ounces soft mild goat cheese at room temperature 8 ounces mesclun (mixed baby greens) to make vinaigrette: in a blender or small food processor, blend all vinaigrette ingredients with salt and pepper to taste until smooth.
the handle should be made of moisture-proof polypropylene or stainless steel with a smooth finish.
here is a very brief primer on how knives are made, how  to buy a knife and how to use it.
these brilliant cooks who actually use knives every day,  all day, frequently rely on off-brand knives (found at restaurant supply  stores) that are as comfortable, sharp and reliable as some of the fancier  varieties you may see for hundreds of dollars at the mall.
once properly sharpened, however,  stainless does hold a good edge.
according to him, these sets contain many knives you don't need and  may never use due to lack of comfort or knowledge.
here is a very brief primer on how knives are made, how to buy a knife and how to use it.
according to mr. smith, this  affection for enduring quality will cost in the range of $50 to $150, with more  expensive models being sheer luxury.
ask the salesperson to try the knife; it should cut through office paper without pressure or resistance.
once you know how to hold your knife, it's  time to practice cutting skills.
holding the knife correctly is vital for safe and efficient cutting.
cut goat cheese into 8 equal pieces and flatten each piece to form a 3-inch disk.
from epicurious.com for pesto vinaigrette: 3/4 cup packed fresh basil leaves 1/2 tablespoon minced garlic 1/2 tablespoon minced shallot 1 tablespoon freshly grated parmesan 1 tablespoon pine nuts, toasted golden 1 1/2 tablespoons white-wine vinegar 1/2 cup plus 2 tablespoons olive oil for ratatouille: 1 long narrow japanese eggplant 1 small zucchini 1 small yellow squash 1 small red bell pepper 1 small green bell pepper 3 tablespoons olive oil 1 small red onion, chopped fine 1 medium vine-ripened tomato, seeded and pureed (about 1/2 cup)
it is perhaps  the most familiar, although most frequently poorly executed shape.
guacamole from "cocina de la familia" by marilyn tausend 1 medium ripe tomato, finely chopped 2 tablespoons minced white onion 1  fresh jalapeno chili, seeded and finely chopped 3 very ripe avocados 1/4 lightly packed, finely minced cilantro leaves juice of 1/2 lime 1  teaspoon extra-virgin olive oil sea salt place the tomato, onion and  chile in a molcajete or bowl and mash a bit, but leave it chunky.
of course,  after toiling in the dregs of a hot kitchen all day, professional chefs do like  to retreat to the luxurious solitude of their home kitchens, where the tools  are their own, individually chosen with love.
mr. toohey graduated from the culinary institute of america, where a stray cut could lead to an apoplectic professor, much less a failed class.
stainless steel blades won't rust or  corrode, but are more difficult to sharpen.
there are numerous basic knife cuts,  too many to mention here, so mr. toohey identified the most important: a mince is a very fine, even cut appropriate for herbs, garlic and shallots.
mr. toohey teaches two  ways to hold a knife, whether by the tang or the blade.
vinaigrette may be made 1 day ahead and chilled, covered.
to make  ratatouille: cut eggplant, zucchini, yellow squash and bell peppers into  1/4-inch dice.
use a spatula to transfer a ratatouille round to center of  each salad.
much of the cost of a knife is determined by its manufacture, including composition and design.
from "the new professional chef, 5th edition" by the culinary  institute of america 2 yellow squash, cut in long julienne 2  zucchini, cut in long julienne 2 leeks, cut in long julienne whole  butter, as needed sea salt and freshly ground pepper, to taste 2  tablespoons fresh tarragon, basil, cilantro and oregano, minced toss the  yellow squash, zucchini and leeks together to mix evenly.
being able to handle a knife effectively can be the determining factor in the taste, texture and presentation of a dish.
register register forgot password?
he reminded me that you  don't have to spend a lot of money to get a good knife.
she relishes an opportunity to appreciate the rhythm of  her work and the beauty of the food, and so should you.
the veritable scimitars you may see wielded by chefs on television are jokes to many restaurant and food service chefs.
these brilliant cooks who actually use knives every day, all day, frequently rely on off-brand knives (found at restaurant supply stores) that are as comfortable, sharp and reliable as some of the fancier varieties you may see for hundreds of dollars at the mall.
a good knife will be durable: it should last for years with proper maintenance and regular sharpening.
knives that are "fully forged" are formed from one piece of metal and produce the strongest and sharpest blade.
transfer round on parchment square to  a large baking sheet and remove ring.
instead, focus on purchasing just two good knives: a french or chef's knife and a paring knife.
good knife skills are important, largely because the size, shape and consistency of cut foods determine cooking time, and thereby the taste, texture and even presentation of a dish.
professional  knives, which by their manufacture and design are sharp and well balanced, do  just one thing very well: they cut.
mr. smith noted that while the design of the knife is important, you should  also consider the composition of the blade specifically.
test which method feels comfortable to you using a back-and-forth or up-and-down motion.
of course, having a knife and  using it well are two different things.
battonet can be used similarly, but produces a thicker cut.
add the julienned vegetables and saute, tossing frequently, until heated through and tender.
when researching this article  i turned to chef john toohey of whole foods market for advice on knife skills.
make 7 more rounds in same manner with  remaining parchment squares, ratatouille and goat cheese.
we provide the facility for chef employers and chef recruitment agencies to advertise their jobs online to recruit a chef or find a chef online.
the handle should be made  of moisture-proof polypropylene or stainless steel with a smooth finish.
bring vinaigrette to room temperature before using on salads.
transfer round on parchment square to a large baking sheet and remove ring.
bake rounds in middle of oven 8 to 10 minutes, or until heated through.
chef recruitment agencies the chef jobs site has : executive chef jobs, head chef jobs,sous chef jobs, chef de partie jobs, commis chef jobs, pastry chef jobs, development chef jobs, consultant chef jobs, specialist chef jobs - all levels of chef andcatering jobs .
dice an  onion too big and you may have salsa rather than dip; slice it too small and  you may have charred bits rather than savory silkiness.
practice makes perfect now that you  have a good knife, know how to hold it and have memorized shapes and sizes of  cuts, it's time to get to work.
cut goat cheese into 8 equal pieces and flatten each piece to form a 3-inch  disk.
ditto with a boning knife.
they aren't cheap,  however, and given their brittle nature, they may break and chip more easily  than a carbon stainless blade.
when held properly, the blade will rest lightly  against your knuckles, ensuring a consistent cut and intact, whole fingertips.
mix together with the cilantro, lime juice, olive oil and salt to taste.
holding the knife correctly  is vital for safe and efficient cutting.
ratatouille and goat cheese salad with pesto vinaigrette
carbon steel blades are an alloy of carbon and iron.
or how chunks of vegetables floating in a silky soup  would perhaps be better as a small dice.
from epicurious.com 3/4 cup packed fresh basil leaves 1/2  tablespoon minced garlic 1 tablespoon  freshly grated parmesan 1 tablespoon pine nuts, toasted golden 1 1/2  tablespoons white-wine vinegar 1/2 cup plus 2 tablespoons olive oil
they are usually priced lower than forged cutlery.
cook bell peppers in remaining teaspoon oil in  same manner and transfer to bowl.
practice makes perfect now that you have a good knife, know how to hold it and have memorized shapes and sizes of cuts, it's time to get to work.
in a large, heavy skillet, cook eggplant in 1 tablespoon oil  over moderate heat, stirring until tender, then transfer to a bowl.
head chef jobs the chef section has : chef forums, chef network,  chef recipes, rate employers, suppliers offers and chef links.
it is perhaps the most familiar, although most frequently poorly executed shape.
much of the cost of a knife is  determined by its manufacture, including composition and design.
in skillet cook zucchini, yellow squash and onion with salt and pepper to taste in 1 tablespoon oil over moderate heat, stirring, until crisp-tender, 3 to 5 minutes, then transfer to bowl.
forged knives offer the top of the line in quality.
in skillet  cook zucchini, yellow squash and onion with salt and pepper to taste in 1  tablespoon oil over moderate heat, stirring, until crisp-tender, 3 to 5  minutes, then transfer to bowl.
curl your fingers inward  toward your palm with your thumb well away from the blade, using your knuckles  as a guide for the knife.
ratatouille and  goat cheese salad with pesto vinaigrette
head chef jobs the chef section has : chef forums, chef network, chef recipes, rate employers, suppliers offers and chef links.
to be effective, a cook should have quality, reliable tools, especially when it comes to knives, which are inherently risky if uncomfortable to use, dull or inefficient.
it is then crafted by hand through tempering, sharpening and  finishing, sometimes in up to 50 separate steps.
use it when you want the object to be physically minimized in the dish.
chef rita calvert has mentioned to me many  times that practicing her knife skills is a mentally and spiritually  therapeutic exercise.
carbon steel  blades are an alloy of carbon and iron.
according to mr. smith, this affection for enduring quality will cost in the range of $50 to $150, with more expensive models being sheer luxury.
stamped blades are cut from a thin ribbon of steel using a template, much like a cookie cutter.
they are 10 times sharper than steel with no surface tension.
when held properly, the blade will rest lightly against your knuckles, ensuring a consistent cut and intact, whole fingertips.
knife safety knives should come with one of those universal disclaimers stating the obvious: improper use can lead to serious injury.
once properly sharpened, however, stainless does hold a good edge.
a serrated slicer makes cutting bread or tomatoes easier, but isn't necessary if you have a good, sharp chef's knife.
halve the  avocados lengthwise, remove the seed and scoop or squeeze all the flesh into  the tomato mixture.
it should be well balanced in your hand with ease of cutting motion.
the blades are tempered, sharpened and finished, usually by machine.
mix together with the cilantro, lime juice, olive oil and  salt to taste.
she relishes an opportunity to appreciate the rhythm of her work and the beauty of the food, and so should you.
a dice is a cube-shaped cut used in making everything from croutons to soup and salads.
a dice is a cube-shaped  cut used in making everything from croutons to soup and salads.
there are four  basic sizes of dice.
drizzle each salad with about 1 teaspoon vinaigrette and garnish  with halved red and yellow cherry tomatoes.
my answer is a definitive yes.
top ratatouille in ring with goat cheese disk, pressing lightly at edges to cover ratatouille completely.
the veritable scimitars  you may see wielded by chefs on television are jokes to many restaurant and  food service chefs.
ceramic knives came on the scene about 10 years ago, and are prized for their sharpness and precision.
a high carbon stainless steel blade is an alloy combining the best of both worlds: it doesn't discolor or corrode, sharpens easily and holds an edge.
stamped blades  are cut from a thin ribbon of steel using a template, much like a cookie  cutter.
knives that are "fully forged" are  formed from one piece of metal and produce the strongest and sharpest blade.
imagine how chopped shallots taste, look and feel differently than minced.
almost  every recipe in a cook's repertoire involves cutting of some type, making a  knife the most frequently used tool in the kitchen.
test which method feels  comfortable to you using a back-and-forth or up-and-down motion.
chef recruitment agencies the chef jobs site has : executive chef jobs, head chef jobs,sous chef jobs,  chef de partie jobs, commis chef jobs, pastry chef jobs, development chef jobs,  consultant chef jobs, specialist chef jobs - all levels of chef andcatering jobs .
when researching this article i turned to chef john toohey of whole foods market for advice on knife skills.
summer squash noodles
stir in tomato puree, garlic, herbs, salt and  pepper to taste and cool ratatouille completely.
use a spatula to transfer a ratatouille round to center of each salad.
mr. smith highlighted the five most  important factors to consider when purchasing a professional knife: the knife should be comfortable to hold: it should feel substantial but not too  heavy, which can lead to fatigue and strain.
of course, after toiling in the dregs of a hot kitchen all day, professional chefs do like to retreat to the luxurious solitude of their home kitchens, where the tools are their own, individually chosen with love.
mr. smith noted that while the design of the knife is important, you should also consider the composition of the blade specifically.
once you know how to hold your knife, it's time to practice cutting skills.
julienne and battonet are long, rectangular cuts of even length and width.
preheat oven to 375 degrees and cut a large sheet of parchment paper into eight 5-
on a work surface, put a 3-inch metal pastry ring (at least  11/2 inches high) or other mold in middle of 1 parchment square and fill it  with 1/3 cup ratatouille, pressing evenly and tightly into bottom of your mold.
chef forums +chefsworld tim capper tags: chefs knife follow us on twitter © chefsworld.net chefsworld | terms of use | site map | web design & web hosting by os3
these recipes should help you practice your  knife skills, use some of those vegetables you purchased over the weekend at  the market, and encourage some culinary meditation.
or how chunks of vegetables floating in a silky soup would perhaps be better as a small dice.
preheat oven to 375  degrees and cut a large sheet of parchment paper into eight 5- to 6- inch  squares.
curl your fingers inward toward your palm with your thumb well away from the blade, using your knuckles as a guide for the knife.
gaps or seams in the handle or between the parts of the knife will cause deterioration and can also harbor harmful bacteria.
when you prepare to purchase a good knife, hold it in each  hand to consider its weight, balance and comfort.
small dice is a bit larger at 1/4 inch, while medium dice is 1/3 inch and large dice is 3/4 inch.
while usually thinner and lighter, the design of stamped knives requires a firmer grip and more pressure when chopping, mincing and dicing.
he reminded me that you don't have to spend a lot of money to get a good knife.
garnish with fresh cilantro sprigs and serve immediately chefsworld a world created by chefs for chefs.
to  julienne vegetables of an uneven shape, such as carrots, trim the vegetable so  that the sides are straight, which will make future cuts much easier.
heat the  butter in a saute pan over medium heat.
kerry smith, owner of a cook's revenge on main street in downtown annapolis, provided an insightful refresher course on knives.
cook bell peppers in remaining teaspoon oil in same manner and transfer to bowl.
halve the avocados lengthwise, remove the seed and scoop or squeeze all the flesh into the tomato mixture.
being able to handle a knife  effectively can be the determining factor in the taste, texture and  presentation of a dish.
a serrated  slicer makes cutting bread or tomatoes easier, but isn't necessary if you have  a good, sharp chef's knife.
when you prepare to purchase a good knife, hold it in each hand to consider its weight, balance and comfort.
a chiffonade cut produces long, thin ribbons of leafy vegetables  or herbs and is frequently used for garnish.
he reminded me that when taking the rigorous master chef exam, many applicants have been rejected based on their knife skills alone.
ask the salesperson to try  the knife; it should cut through office paper without pressure or resistance.
in a large, heavy skillet, cook eggplant in 1 tablespoon oil over moderate heat, stirring until tender, then transfer to a bowl.
it is then crafted by hand through tempering, sharpening and finishing, sometimes in up to 50 separate steps.