javascript seem to be disabled in your browser.
finally, ceramic knives are very easy to clean with a hand washing or mild bleach solution (blade only).
the ceramic sharpeners are used to sharpen all steel-based knives, including titanium because the same hardness principle applies.
the white ceramic  blade is also made out of zirconium oxide but does not go through this  expensive sintering process.
this material, which is second in hardness only to diamond, was originally developed for industrial applications where metal components failed.
first, you can chip the edge if you cut into bones.
for more information about this service, click here.
how do i care for a ceramic knife?
use steel knives for carving, prying, boning, cutting  frozen foods, and slicing cheese.
top video "we shaved tomatoes into translucent discs and carved a whole-grain loaf into playing-card-thin toast.”
you can resharpen  your ceramic knife by using our resharpening service.
these knives are made  of an advanced, high-tech ceramic called zirconium oxide (also called  zirconia).
the  correct pronunciation is "key-o-sarah," which comes from "kyoto  ceramics," the original name of the company.
these scissors are  made of an advanced, high-tech ceramic called zirconium oxide (also called  zirconia).
first, it's dangerous if someone forgets about the knife or reaches in the wrong way.
we do not recommend this for several reasons.
ceramic is harder than all metals, so it is the ideal surface to re-sharpen these softer materials.
to check for  the nearest retailer, go to where to buy.
for more information, please see our care and use instructions.
it's a great at-home solution to refreshen and resharpen kyocera blades.
always use them on a plastic or wood cutting board and avoid cutting on marble, stone or inappropriate surfaces like plates or kitchen tile.
how do i sharpen ceramic knives?
can i put my ceramic knife in the dishwasher?
for more information about this service,  click here.
adjustable mandoline slicer
we do  not recommend this for several reasons.
you can  store your kyocera ceramic knife in a conventional knife block, in an in-drawer  tray, or in the package.
second, you can break off the tip or snap off the handle if you use it to pry or twist.
you can store your kyocera ceramic knife in a conventional knife block, in an in-drawer tray, or in the package.
to check for the nearest retailer, go to where to buy.
how should i use my kyocera ceramic knife?
we service retailers both directly and through our network of manufacturer's representatives.
(pdf/105kb) where should i store my kyocera ceramic knife?
can i use a ceramic sharpening rod on a ceramic knife?
revolution 5” micro-serrated utility knife “easily serves up perfectly sliced vegetables, from paper thin to moderately thick.”
what else does kyocera make?
it's a great at-home solution to  refreshen and resharpen kyocera blades.
for slicing fruits, vegetables and boneless meats, a kyocera advanced ceramic knife has no equal.
only kyocera  advanced ceramic knives can be sharpened with this service.
this type of blade goes through an extra firing process called a "hot-isostatic press," creating a tighter weave between the ceramic molecules, thus creating a tougher blade.
second, violent motion against other objects, especially hard plates, could chip the objects and/or the knife.
even so, ceramic knives are intended to complement -- not replace -- your other cutlery.
kyocera is one of the world's leaders in advanced ceramics and electronics.
you must have javascript enabled in your browser to utilize the functionality of this website.
where are kyocera knives made?
second, violent motion  against other objects, especially hard plates, could chip the objects and/or  the knife.
who do i contact if i want to sell kyocera knives in my store?
email us at cpd@kyocera.com.
you can also damage ceramic scissors by trying to cut very thick material or by trying to bend the blades.
do kyocera knives come with a warranty?
email us at cpd@kyocera.com.
a black (hip) blade is made out of a black zirconium oxide and  offers extra durability.
third, dishwashers ruin wood handles.
any knife, whether stainless steel or ceramic, will potentially break at the tip if its dropped on a hard surface at a certain angle.
for  the technically minded, zirconium oxide has a hardness of 8.2 mohs (vs. steel  at 5-6 mohs and diamond at 10 mohs).
use steel knives for carving, prying, boning, cutting frozen foods, and slicing cheese.
kyocera is one of the  world's leaders in advanced ceramics and electronics.
these scissors are made of an advanced, high-tech ceramic called zirconium oxide (also called zirconia).
top video "we shaved tomatoes into translucent discs and carved a whole-grain  loaf into playing-card-thin toast.”
zirconium oxide is extremely hard, wear resistant, and chemically  inert.
will a ceramic knife break if i drop it?
avoid flexing or prying.
unfortunately, accidental damage can occur so we do offer resharpening services.
we service retailers both  directly and through our network of manufacturer's representatives.
for the technically minded, zirconium oxide has a hardness of 8.2 mohs  (vs. steel at 5-6 mohs and diamond at 10 mohs).
finally, ceramic knives are  very easy to clean with a hand washing or mild bleach solution (blade only).
first, you  can chip the edge if you cut into bones.
kyocera advanced  ceramic knives are made in japan.
only kyocera advanced ceramic knives can be sharpened with this service.
yes, many of blades on our peelers can be replaced.
all kyocera  knives comes with a lifetimewarranty.
for slicing  fruits, vegetables and boneless meats, a kyocera advanced ceramic knife has no  equal.
ceramic blades are strong, but not flexible.
this type of blade goes through an extra firing  process called a "hot-isostatic press," creating a tighter weave  between the ceramic molecules, thus creating a tougher blade.
a black (hip) blade is made out of a black zirconium oxide and offers extra durability.
where can i buy kyocera ceramic knives?
like forged steel scissors, however, you can break the tip if the scissors land on the tip (very uncommon).
like forged steel scissors, however,  you can break the tip if the scissors land on the tip (very uncommon).
first, it's dangerous if someone  forgets about the knife or reaches in the wrong way.
the ceramic sharpeners are used to sharpen all steel-based knives,  including titanium because the same hardness principle applies.
what are ceramic knives made of?
ceramic is  harder than all metals, so it is the ideal surface to re-sharpen these softer  materials.
for more information,  please see our care and use instructions.
usa global default welcome msg!
what are ceramic scissors made of? will ceramic scissors shatter or break if i drop them?
ceramic scissors will not shatter when dropped.
any knife,  whether stainless steel or ceramic, will potentially break at the tip if its  dropped on a hard surface at a certain angle.
these knives are made of an advanced, high-tech ceramic called zirconium oxide (also called zirconia).
second, you can break off the tip or  snap off the handle if you use it to pry or twist.
will ceramic scissors break if i drop them?
what are ceramic scissors made of?
we also offer a ceramic knife sharpener for kyocera knives.
unfortunately, accidental damage  can occur so we do offer resharpening services.
what is the ceramic knife  warranty?
how can i damage a ceramic knife?
the answers to these questions and  more are readily available.
always use them on a  plastic or wood cutting board and avoid cutting on marble, stone or  inappropriate surfaces like plates or kitchen tile.
kyocera advanced ceramic knives are made in japan.
the white ceramic blade is also made out of zirconium oxide but does not go through this expensive sintering process.
do you replace peeler blades?
we also offer a  ceramic knife sharpener for kyocera knives.
even so, ceramic knives are intended to complement -- not replace --  your other cutlery.
we manufacture a wide variety of products including semiconductor packages, capacitors, thermal print heads, resistors, cutting tool inserts, circuit substrates, lcd panels, fiber optic components, car engine components, solar modules, laser printers, wielding nozzles, cellular/phs phones, pump components, synthetic gemstones, thread and wire guides, antenna mounts, and lots of other neat stuff!
you can  also damage ceramic scissors by trying to cut very thick material or by trying  to bend the blades.
ceramic  scissors will not shatter when dropped.
where should i store my kyocera ceramic knife?
for the technically minded, zirconium oxide has a hardness of 8.2 mohs (vs. steel at 5-6 mohs and diamond at 10 mohs).
zirconium oxide is extremely hard, wear resistant, and chemically inert.
you can resharpen your ceramic knife by using our resharpening service.
how do i say "kyocera" correctly?
we manufacture a wide  variety of products including semiconductor packages, capacitors, thermal print  heads, resistors, cutting tool inserts, circuit substrates, lcd panels, fiber  optic components, car engine components, solar modules, laser printers,  wielding nozzles, cellular/phs phones, pump components, synthetic gemstones,  thread and wire guides, antenna mounts, and lots of other neat stuff!
yes, many of blades on  our peelers can be replaced.
revolution 5” micro-serrated  utility knife popular mechanics “easily serves up perfectly sliced vegetables, from paper thin to  moderately thick.”
all kyocera knives comes with a lifetimewarranty.
what are the uses for different knives and kitchen tools?
what is the difference between a black-hip blade and a white blade?
frequently asked questions frequently asked questions how do i sharpen a kyocera ceramic knife?
the correct pronunciation is "key-o-sarah," which comes from "kyoto ceramics," the original name of the company.
this material, which is second in hardness only to diamond, was  originally developed for industrial applications where metal components failed.