features one hole to allow hanging on the wall or oven or refrigerator when not in use.
this is the new 2 piece global knife set.
chef notes: this peeler will quickly peel carrots, apples and any root vegetables.
the cro in cromova 18 stands for chromium and the 18 is the percentage  of chromium in the steel.
chefs note: sweet knife set, cool handles,  razor sharp, super thin edge, perfectly balanced and amazing cromova steel  blade.
yoshikin uses its own  proprietary stainless steel which it calls cromova 18 stainless steel.
this is the new global minosharp knife sharpener.
chefs  favorite pasta supplies!
chef notes: we like this high quality tool.
the magnet bar easily attaches to any wall or cabinet for safe knife storage.
global 2 piece setquantity: this is the new global knife case.
exclusively handmade to our exact specifications in the usa.
it featues dimples  and 11 slots.
chef notes: way cool knife set!
this high percentage of chromium  contributes to global's good stain resistance.
we could not believe how sharp these knives were until we tried one.
sharpening steel (or smaller), boning knife, paring and tourne knives, a  thermometer, tongs and more!
chefs note: sweet knife, cool handle, razor sharp, super thin edge, perfectly  balanced and amazing cromova steel blade.
extra fine waterstones  will quickly sharpen your amazing global knives without scratching.
if you want a high quality knife to  pass through generations, you found it.
chef is testing a 3 pc.
extra fine shaft works wonders on your amazing global knives.
each handmade knife features blades forged from super high quality japanese alloy steel.
we like the crisp new style.
it also sharpens ceramic knives by using the diamond wheel only.
product # cd220/br-global-minosharp-sharpener retail $69.00 and up sale price $44.95 this is the new global minosharp knife sharpener.
maple cutting boards will not dull your knife!
$49.95 quantity: < get out your grilling tongs and fire up the bbq!
see free offers above  & below : add to cart!
first, it is a far more precise than using a tang and a bolster.
the set includes g-66 7 inch (18 cm) oriental fluted cooks knife, gs-37 5 1/4 inch (13 cm) santoku granton knife and gs-38 3 1/2 inch (9 cm)
this holster is black (pictured in red only  to show it holding knives).
you will too, or just  send them back!
our logo cuttingboard features a rounded top edge and it's oil finished!
the non slip ergo poly handle is very comfortable and virtually indestructible, perfect for every serious chef.
we like  the feel of this little beauty and the extra sharp thin blade.
it has a wicked sharp 7 in. blade.
global paring knife 3.5 in.
bonus: free offers above &  below!
chef notes: we like the cutting edge modern look of this global block.
hollow ground global carving knife!
place your order today, limited quantities and limited time offer!
we like the feel and extra sharp long thin blade.
this high percentage of chromium contributes to  global's good stain resistance.
we like these round cuttingboards for serving cheese platters at holiday parties!
if you want a  high quality knife to pass through generations, you found it.
works great as a spoon rest when making a batch of chili or marinara sauce.
these cutting boards simply wash off with soap and water.
it includes a 4 in oriental cooks knife, 5 in.
knife holder quantity: global 20 in.
chef notes: we like  the feel of this beauty and the extra sharp thin blade.
quantity: this is the new global santoku knife!
you will love this stone!
this is the new 6 inch blade global chef knife, the most used knife, it  easily glide through food!
if you want a high quality knife set to pass through generations, you  found it.
coarse, fine, extra fine highest grade ceramic waterstones will quickly sharpen your amazing global knives.
you must purchase $250.00 or more of global cutlery and add this item to your cart!
4 piece global steak knives, serrated bladesquantity: this is the new 7 inch blade global vegetable knife, it easily glide through vegetables and other foods!
you will too,  or just send them back!
bamboo cutting boards make an attractive serving and chopping surface.
the  mo and va in cromova 18 stand for molybdenum and vanadium.
this is the new 10 inch blade global yanagi sashimi knife, it easily  glide through fish and other meats!
chefs note: add to your cart!
each handmade knife is forged from super high quality japanese alloy steel.
if you want a high quality serrated knife to pass through generations, you found it.
care should be taken to keep your global knives stain and rust free.
detailed instructions are included.
this is the new 8 3/4 inch serrated blade global bread knife, it easily glide through crusty bread, cakes, sandwiches and more!
low prices & free shipping!
wow, did you say...free cutting boards?
this is a new kasumi knife sharpener.
the mo and va in cromova 18 stand for  molybdenum and vanadium.
9 piece global knife setquantity: this is the new global stainless steel knife block.
knife holderquantity: this is the new 9 1/2 inch global ceramic knife sharpener.
see free offers above  & below!
blue peelerquantity: this sushi was made by 2 sushi chefs for an oceanside party!
utility knife, 7.5 in.
the air pockets along blade are sweet for sticky foods like fat sushi rolls and potatoes.
the outstanding kasumi titanium coated blade has been achieved by combining the best of advanced modern manufacturing.
gsf-50 $71.95 quantity: global utility  knife, 4.5 in.
the very powerful magnets are pressed into the super hard rock maple.
other unique features of global knives are their smooth contours and seamless, all stainless steel construction which eliminates food and dirt traps offering the ultimate in safety and hygiene.
it is often asked why global knives stay sharp so long without sharpening.
chefs note: this holster will help to eliminate the loss of knives and tools.
this holster is black (pictured in red only to show it holding knives).
buy one, try it  for a month, if you do not love it, send it back!
the 20 pocket case adds the outside side pocket.
this  steel is hard enough for global knives to keep their edge for a long time, but  soft enough so that it is not too difficult to sharpen the knives.
see free offers above & below!
16 pocket casequantity: our new solid makassar wood magnetic knife block holder is sleek and cool.
global knives are made from the finest high carbon  stainless steel available for producing professional quality kitchen knives.
the knives are forged from super high quality japanese alloy steel.
the cro in cromova 18  stands for chromium and the 18 is the percentage of chromium in the steel.
chefs note: a perfect choice for student chefs and pastry arts students.
chefs note: sweet knife, cool handle, razor sharp, super thin edge, perfectly balanced and amazing cromova steel blade.
chefs note: the block looks so good.
it features 2 slots, one has a ceramic wheel that turns and one has a diamond wheel that turns.
this is the new 9 piece global knife set in stainless steel block.
global oriental chef knife, 7 in.
quantity: click here for  knife guards, protect your blades and your fingers!
when komin yamada was commissioned for the job he developed a range of  knives that was truly new and revolutionary, using the best materials available  and the latest manufacturing techniques.
the cro in  cromova 18 stands for chromium and the 18 is the percentage of chromium in the  steel.
chefs note:  this holster will help to eliminate the loss of knives and tools.
retail $195.00  and up sale price $149.95
if you want a high quality knife set to pass  through generations, you found it.
chef notes: perfect for fast apple birds, slicing pears and  fruits!
click here forknife edge guards.
global knives are made from the finest high carbon stainless steel available for producing professional quality kitchen knives.
made from a durable polyester fabric with pvc backing.
chef notes: global knives are made from the finest high carbon stainless steel available for producing professional quality kitchen knives.
you will too, or just send them back! bonus: free offers above & below!
this is a new kasumi titanium chef knife with a 7 3/4 in.
click here for the featured handmade global knife set!
we like the feel of this beauty and the extra sharp thin blade.
this steel is hard enough for global knives to keep their edge  for a long time, but soft enough so that it is not too difficult to sharpen the  knives.
global knives are made  from the finest high carbon stainless steel available for producing  professional quality kitchen knives.
smooth blad is also available below.
global serrated utility knife, 6 in.
this stone features a 3000 and 8000 grit extrafine surfaces plus a durable base.
if  you want a high quality knife set to pass through generations, you found it.
forged steak knife set  includes four forged steak knives (3.5 in. blades).
the chefs also like to use our dark walnut chopping blocks!
each handmade knife is forged from super high quality  japanese alloy steel.
chef notes: we like the  feel of this beauty and the extra sharp thin blade.
if you want a high quality hollow ground knife to pass through generations, you found it.
chefs note: sweet serrated knife, cool handle, razor sharp, super  thin edge, perfectly balanced and amazing cromova steel blade.
a stainless steel holder is also available.
this is the new 10 inch blade global yanagi sashimi knife, it easily glide through fish and other meats!
bonus: free offers  below!
choose your size below!
allows for fast and effective storage and lets you show off your global knives!
see free offers  above & below!
product # cdg-45458-global-3pc-anniversary-set retail $295.00 and up sale price
second, asian knives typically do not have bolsters, since they only serve as a hindrance to cutting and sharpening.
another chef depot exclusive!
this is the same type used to mirror finish handmade samurai swords.
made with super strength magnets!
quantity: swiss diamond chef pan has  200,000 diamonds!
used for chopping and slicing and working with fruits and vegetables.
several other  sizes are also listed below.
global  knives are made from the finest high carbon stainless steel available for  producing professional quality kitchen knives.
asian chefs knife, gl-gs58 and gl-gs54, gl-g4!
free shipping on orders over $99.00!
chef utility knife, 5.5 in.
asian chefs knife, gl-gs58 and  gl-gs54, gl-g4!
this is the new 7 inch blade global oriental chef knife, the most used knife, it easily glide through food!
if you want a high quality knife case, you found it.
bamboo knife trayquantity: great for chef's on the move!
3 piece global anniversary knife set quantity: 3 piece global anniversary knife set (add knife guards)  $218.95 quantity: make your own pizza!
this is the new 3.5 and 4 inch blade global paring knives, it easily  glide through food!
global chefs utility knife gs-3 quantity: global utility knife gs-2 $75.95 quantity: global  utility knife, 4.5 in.
do not forget  yourknife edge guards!
this high percentage of chromium contributes to global's good stain resistance.
chef notes: we like the feel of these knives and the extra sharp thin blades.
product # cdknifeholster005black retail $45.99 and up on  sale $24.99 our exclusive "chef knife holster" is perfect for the busy  chef!
bladequantity: this is the new global deba knife.
choose from several below!
chefs note: sweet utility knife, cool handle, razor sharp serrated super thin edge, perfectly balanced and amazing cromova steel blade.
several other sizes are also listed below.
choose from 3 sizes, mounting screws included.
you must purchase $200.00 or more of global cutlery and add this item to your cart!
chef notes: sweet niblets!
chefs note: sweet chef knife, cool handle, razor sharp,  super thin edge, perfectly balanced and amazing cromova steel blade.
when you get within an inch, the powerful magnets pull the knife firmly to the block.
it will take a fine sharp japanese knife and produce a razor edge quickly.
quantity: make your own pasta!
replacement shaft is also available below.
this is the new serrated wide blade global bread knife!
yoshikin uses its own proprietary stainless steel which  it calls cromova 18 stainless steel.
asian chef knife, 8.25 in.
product # cdgsf-4023-global-4pc-steak-knife-set retail $299.00 and  up sale price $219.95 this is the new 4 piece global steak knife set.
this is a great peeler!
each handmade knife  is forged from super high quality japanese alloy steel.
if you want a high quality cleaver to pass through generations, you found it.
global knives; g-4, g-3 g-9, gs-3, gs-7, g-835!
chefs note: sweet handle, perfectly balanced and amazing cromova steel blade.
chefs  note: sweet knife, cool handles, razor sharp, super thin edge, perfectly  balanced and amazing cromova steel blade.
click  here for the featured global minosharp video!
chefs note: a really amazing carving knife, cool handle, razor sharp, super thin edge, perfectly balanced and amazing cromova steel blade.
simply add a few drops of water to the unit and pull the knife through several times.
choose from several popular sies below!
it also includes a cleaning block (small harder stone for removing metal accumulations and keeps the stone flat).
chef notes: we like the feel of this beauty  and the extra sharp thin blade.
this amazing knife  holder comes in a gift box.
if you want a high quality steak knife set to pass through generations, you found it.
each handmade knife is forged from super high quality japanese  alloy steel.
chef notes: we like these high quality ceramic waterstones.
and cool handles, razor sharp, super thin edge, perfectly balanced and amazing cromova steel blades.
global knives are made from the finest high carbon stainless steel available  for producing professional quality kitchen knives.
we like the feel of this knife and the extra sharp thin blade.
product # cdg-5838-global-2pc-set retail $200.00 and up sale  price $174.95 this is the new 2 piece global knife set.
more chopping blocks!
chefs note: we like to use our bamboo boards for parties and special events.
free global birds beak peeling knifequantity: this is the new 8 inch blade global chef knife, the most used knife, it easily glide through food!
this high percentage of  chromium contributes to global's good stain resistance.
addblack knife guards for $5.00!
yoshikin uses its own proprietary  stainless steel which it calls cromova 18 stainless steel.
we love the comfortable ribbed texture and the bright red color!
it is pictured with some of our favoriteglobal knives!
global uses this method rather than using a full tang and a bolster to balance their knives for two reasons.
product # cdg-11-global-yanagi-sashimi-knife-10in
yoshikin uses its own proprietary stainless steel which it calls cromova 18 stainless steel.
global 2 piece set butcher blocks are on sale!
the very powerful magnets are built into the inside of the block.
we like the feel of these extra sharp thin blades.
these boards meet all nsf standards!
the 11 lb. round cuttingboard measures 15 in.
click the button below to add these to your shopping cart!
chefs note: sweet serrated knife, cool handle, razor sharp, super thin edge, perfectly balanced and amazing cromova steel blade.
chefs note: sweet knife set, cool handles, razor sharp, super thin edge, perfectly balanced and amazing cromova steel blade.
chefs note: the annoying guessing and fishing for the right knife will never happen again.
did you know that maple cutting boards naturally kill bacteria?
serrated utility knife, 7.5 in.
global knives are manufactured by  yoshikin in niigata, japan.
they were designed in 1985 by komin  yamada.
if you want a high quality knife  case, you found it.
seals with 3 sided commercial grade zipper and latches closed with 2 durable clips.
hw chefs knife, 6.25 in.
this is the new 4 1/4 inch blade global paring knife, it easily glide  through food!
chefs note: sweet slicing knife, cool handles, razor sharp, super thin edge, perfectly balanced and amazing cromova steel blade.
we like the feel of these extra sharp thin  blades.
this steel is hard enough for global knives to keep their edge for a long time, but soft enough so that it is not too difficult to sharpen the knives.
bonus: free offers above & below global knives are made from the finest high carbon stainless steel available for producing professional quality kitchen knives.
legal notice and copyright customer service - e-mail us or phone:(630) 739-5200 customer feedback
another great gift idea...more bamboo cutting are here!, chefs note: we like to use our bamboo boards for parties and special events.
global chefs vegetable nakiriquantity: this is the new 4 piece global steak knife set.
product # cdgs-1-global-paring-knife-4.25in retail $89.00 and up sale price $69.95
the screws are hidden by covers  on each end.
large global ceramic sharpening stone, 120 gritquantity: this is the new 6 1/4 inch blade global flexible boning knife!
were fast - we can ship you this cutting board for delivery in a few days.
this round solid maple end grain (checkerboard look)
this is the new 8.25 in.
the mo and va in  cromova 18 stand for molybdenum and vanadium.
global knives  are made from the finest high carbon stainless steel available for producing  professional quality kitchen knives.
many sushi chefs also prefer this style for  fast cutting of sushi rolls.
it includes a 3.5 in paring  knife, 6 in.
product # cdg-5-global-vegetable-knife-7in retail $145.00 and up sale price $117.95 this is the new 7 inch blade global vegetable knife, it easily glide  through vegetables and other foods!
comfortable, lightweight and perfectly balanced.
sharpening steel (or smaller), boning knife, paring and tourne knives, a thermometer, tongs and more!
global knives are made from  the finest high carbon stainless steel available for producing professional  quality kitchen knives.
vegetable knife, 6 in.
chefs note: sweet knife, cool angle and comfortable handle, razor sharp, super thin edge, perfectly balanced and amazing cromova steel blade.
the heavy duty belt is quick locking and easily adjustable, one size fits all.
chefs knife, g-58 and gs-38!
cutting board is made from select #1 grade hard rock maple.
and measures aprox 12 in.
the majority of the global knives are sharpened or ground on both sides of the blade like western style knives.
2 piece global knife setquantity: our exclusive "chef knife holster" is perfect for the busy chef!
you will love this knife!
extra thick and strong, weighing in at over 4 lbs,  this rack features the most powerful magnets to grip the blade firmly for safe  and convenient visible knife storage!
this steel is hard  enough for global knives to keep their edge for a long time, but soft enough so  that it is not too difficult to sharpen the knives.
to balance their knives, global uses a hollow handle which is then filled with just the right amount of sand to create the correct balance.
21 pocket global case (pictured) $107.95quantity: this is the new 6 inch blade global chef knife, the most used knife, it easily glide through food!
choose from 7 in, 8 in, or 8.25 in blades below!
the black hard case has 16 pockets for knife/culinary tool storage.
product # cdg66-global-oriental-chefs-granton-edge-7in retail  $159.00 and up sale price $122.95 this is the new 7 inch blade global oriental chefs knife features hollow  ground air pockets that easily glide through food!
4 piece global steak knives, serrated blades quantity: 8 piece global steak knives, serrated  blades (plus free bonus)
we recommend knife guards to protect the knife edge and the holster.
if you want a high quality knife to pass through generations, you found it.
these tools are made of an advanced, high-tech ceramic, second in hardness only to diamond, it was originally developed for industrial applications where metal components failed.
this holster is dishwasher safe and made from a very durable canvas to guard your sharp knives.
chefs note: sweet knife, cool handles, razor sharp, super thin edge, perfectly balanced and amazing cromova steel blade.
free red pot holder / trivetquantity: this is the new 11 inch blade global chef knife, the most used knife, it easily glide through food!
bonus: free cutting board with purchase!
when komin yamada was commissioned for the job his mandate was to develop a range of knives that was truly new and revolutionary, using the best materials available and the latest manufacturing techniques.
chef notes: perfect for fast apple birds, slicing pears and fruits!
our professional 2 step waiters wine opener is a $20.00 value!
it also makes  kitchen prep time more effecient.
heavy weight, each handmade knife is forged from more super high quality japanese alloy steel.
this is the new 5 1/4 inch blade global mini santoku.
slicing knife $92.95quantity: our kasumi japanese whetstone is made in seki city japan.
quantity: this is the new global chefs utility knife.
when  komin yamada was commissioned for the job he developed a range of knives that  was truly new and revolutionary, using the best materials available and the  latest manufacturing techniques.
the block easily shows where to place up to 5 knives on each side.
if you want a high quality knife set to pass through generations, you found it.
if you want a high  quality steak knife set to pass through generations, you found it.
chef notes: we like the feel of this beauty and the extra sharp thin  blade.
the ultra sharp ceramic blade cuts with precision and accuracy every time maintaining a razor-sharp edge for many years.
chef notes: we  like the cutting edge look and feel of this global knife case.
each handmade knife is forged from  super high quality japanese alloy steel.
our bamboo products are handcrafted using small bamboo strips glued and pressed together with approved food grade glue (edible).
each handmade knife is forged from super  high quality japanese alloy steel.
place your order today, limited time offer!
this is the new global anniversary utility knife.
extra fine  shaft works wonders on your amazing global knives.
santoku knife (hollow ground), g-48, gs-3 and gs-38!
when komin yamada was commissioned for the job he developed a range of knives that was truly new and revolutionary, using the best materials available and the latest manufacturing techniques.
these global hw chefs knives features nice hefty wide blades!
chefs note: a really amazing serrated chef knife, cool handle, razor sharp, super thin edge, perfectly balanced and amazing cromova steel blade.
bonus:  free offer below, buy 8 knives with free bonus item and add the free knife to  your cart!
we recommend knife guards to protect the knife  edge and the holster.
each knife is carefully finished by the hands of skilled craftsmen.
chefs favorite  pizza making supplies!
the most important feature of any knife is its edge, and the global edge is truly its signature.
global deba knife, right handedquantity: this is the new 6 inch blade global serrated utility knife, it easily glide through food!
4 piece global steak knives, smooth blades quantity: 8 piece global steak knives, smooth blades  (plus free bonus)
quantity: bakers supplies!
it weighs over 12 lbs.
usa on orders over $99.00!
perfect heat transfer, easiest pan to clean.
choose from several popular sies  below!
quantity: get out your grilling tongs and  fire up the bbq!
chefs note: slicker than oil on water!
knife holder $166.95 quantity: global 32  in.
all global knives are now in stock!
great medium size knife for small  hands too.
the edge is so large and prominent that it is easily seen with the naked eye and extends a quarter inch or more up from the tip of the knife.
quantity: global paring knife 4 in.
we will do our best to beat any competitors price.
this holster is dishwasher safe and made from a  very durable canvas to guard your sharp knives.
2 piece global knife set quantity: 2 piece global knife set (with knife guards) $176.95 quantity: make your own pasta!
plain blade or features hollow ground air pockets that easily glide through food!
gsf-49 $55.95 quantity: global  utility knife, 6 in.
forged steak knife set  includes four 4.5 in.
******** receive a free red high quality pot holder / trivet with any $150.00 global purchase ($150.00 or more)!
3 piece global anniversary knife setquantity: global heavy duty stainless steel magnetic knife rack is made in japan, a cool modern design!
bonus: free  offers above & below!
it includes a 3.5 in paring knife, 5 in.
this chef holster will hold a 10 in.
we like the feel of this little beauty and the extra sharp thin blade.
this amazing knife is a $37.00 value!
global ceramic knife sharpener, 9.5 in.
chef notes: we like the feel of this beauty and  the extra sharp thin blade.
free wine opener - blackquantity: receive a bonus global birds beak peeling knife for free with $250.00 purchase of global cutlery ($250.00 or more)!
however, their edges are ground straight to a point rather than beveled resulting in a dramatically sharper knife which stays sharper longer.
this high percentage of chromium contributes to global's good stain  resistance.
if you  want a high quality knife to pass through generations, you found it.
it includes a 4 in  oriental cooks knife, 5 in.
great gifts for  ....
this is the new 6 inch blade global flexible utility knife!
yoshikin uses its own proprietary stainless steel which it calls  cromova 18 stainless steel.
serrated chef knifequantity: this is the new 4.75 inch blade global deba knife!
chef knife (or smaller), a 12 in.
this is the new global chefs vegetable nakiri knife.
global minosharp black/red
made in europe to our exact specifications.
these two elements  give a knife good edge retention.
it's very comfortable and easy to use.
choose from 2 sizes below!
it will protect from intense heat, up to 495 f. non slip, waterproof and non porous, they provide safety and perfect food hygiene.
chef notes: we  like this high quality tool.
if you want a high quality knife set  to pass through generations, you found it.
this is the new 3 piece global anniversary knife set.
the mo and va in cromova 18 stand for molybdenum and vanadium.
chefs  note: sweet chef knife, cool handle, razor sharp, super thin edge, perfectly  balanced and amazing cromova steel blade.
closed and double that size opened.
the cleaver is forged from super high quality japanese alloy steel.
great medium size knife for small hands too.
this free offer ends next month...
global knives are made from the finest high carbon stainless steel  available for producing professional quality kitchen knives.
global knives; g-3, g-4, g-9, gs-3, gs-7, gs-5, gs-14, gsf-15!
product # cdg-667/21-global-knife-case-21pocket sale price $114.95 this is the new global knife case.
the screws are hidden by covers on each end.
the base and box protect the stone while not in use.
our new exclusive global 2 piece set features a 8 inch blade global chef knife, the most used knife and a 2.5 in sheep foot paring knife!
the mo and va in cromova 18  stand for molybdenum and vanadium.
chef knife (or smaller), a 12  in.
quantity: global ceramic replacement rod, 9.5 in.
quantity: this is the new 4 1/4 inch blade global paring knife, it easily glide through food!
it is totally sealed and when you get within an inch, the powerful magnets pull the knife firmly to the block.
chefs  custom kitchens - as seen on tv!
chef notes: we like the perfect balance and feel of these  beautiful knives, the extra sharp thin blade are amazing.
this is the new 3 piece global knife set.
chefs note: sweet mini santoku, cool handle, razor sharp, super thin edge, perfectly balanced and amazing cromova steel blade.
these two elements give a knife  good edge retention.
right handed yanagi sashimi knife quantity: left handed yanagi sashimi knife quantity: butcher blocks are on sale!
chef notes: we like the perfect balance and feel of these beautiful knives, the extra sharp thin blade are amazing.
chefs note: sweet set, great deal!
4 piece global steak knives, smooth bladesquantity: this is the new 4 piece global steak knife set.
way cool case design.
knife holder $219.95 quantity: product # cdg45-global-ceramic-sharpener-9.5in retail $169.00 and up sale price $124.95 this is the new 9 1/2 inch global ceramic knife sharpener.
chefs note: sweet santoku, cool handle, razor sharp, super thin  edge, perfectly balanced and amazing cromova steel blade.
extra thick and strong, weighing in at over 4 lbs, this rack features the most powerful magnets to grip the blade firmly for safe and convenient visible knife storage!
features; the two most innovative features of global knives are their edge and the way they are balanced.
the grindings on the blade make it cruise through meats effortlessly!
extra fine waterstones will quickly sharpen your amazing global knives without scratching.
each one  is very sharp.
shoulder strap included!
choose from 2 styles below.
right handed yanagi sashimi knifequantity: this is the new 7 inch blade global oriental chefs knife features hollow ground air pockets that easily glide through food!
replacement shaft is also  available below.
chefs note: a really amazing knife, cool handle, razor sharp, super thin edge, perfectly balanced and amazing cromova steel blade.
this is the new 8 inch blade global chef knife, with granton edge air pockets on the blade, the most used knife, it glides super easily through food!
global knives are manufactured by yoshikin in niigata, japan.
our new solid maple magnetic knife block holder is amazing.
each handmade knife is  forged from super high quality japanese alloy steel.
see free offers above & below : add to cart!
these two elements give a knife good edge  retention.
this steel is hard enough for global  knives to keep their edge for a long time, but soft enough so that it is not  too difficult to sharpen the knives.
if you want a  high quality steak knife set to pass through generations, you found it.
bonus: free offers above  & below!
the magnet bar easily attaches  to any wall or cabinet for safe knife storage.
forged steak knife set includes four 4.5 in.
chef notes: we like the cutting edge  modern look of this global block.
oil it every month with emmets elixer, to keep it looking new.
product # cdgs-5-global-vegetable-nakiri retail $99.00 and up sale price $81.95
this amazing knife holder comes in a gift box.
extremely sanitary design.
addblack knife guards for $6.00!
it also makes kitchen prep time more effecient.
bonus:  free offers above & below!
product # cdgtf-4001-global-4pc-steak-knife-set-serrated retail  $299.00 and up sale price $219.95 this is the new 4 piece global steak knife set.
and measures 11.75 in.
lifetime warranty!free shipping in cont.
free shipping in cont.
chefs note: a big sweet chef knife, cool handle, razor sharp, super thin edge, perfectly balanced and amazing cromova steel blade.
each one is very sharp.
with proper care, this maple board will last for life!
copyright 1999 - 2012 chef depot inc. all rights reserved.
this is the new global sashimi slicer knife.
you must purchase $499.00 or more of global cutlery and add this item to your cart!
bonus: free offers below!
global knives are made from the finest high  carbon stainless steel available for producing professional quality kitchen  knives.
global santoku 5.25 in.
you can now get one for each hand (left or right).
you must add to cart to get the free silicone pot holder & trivet.
bamboo cutting boards are made from a select grade of bamboo, it's a totally sustainable natural resource.
the stone with base measures aprox.
order any 2 sizes below and get the angle clips included for free (mention the offer in comments section at checkout).
small hands or you just desire the "cutting edge knife", this is it!
many sushi chefs also prefer this style for fast cutting of sushi rolls.
this holder helps to free up precious  drawer and counter space.
gsf-49 $55.95 quantity: make your own  pizza!
chefs favorite pizza supplies!
bladequantity: this is the new 6 piece global knife set in stainless steel block.
it featues dimples and 11 slots.
this  high percentage of chromium contributes to global's good stain resistance.
chefs note: the perfect mate for your global knives.
it simply glides through most any food!
product # cdgs-3-global-chefs-utility retail $95.00 and up sale  price $75.95 this is the new global chefs utility knife.
chef notes: we like these high quality sharpeners.
cool handles, perfectly balanced and amazing cromova steel blade.
oil it every month withmystery oil, to keep it looking new.
used for chopping and slicing and working  with fruits and vegetables.
blade, it's the slickest blade made.
chef notes: we like the feel of these knives and the extra sharp thin blades
this steel is hard enough for global knives to keep  their edge for a long time, but soft enough so that it is not too difficult to  sharpen the knives.
any questions, call the chefs!
kasumi titanium chef knife $149.95 this is the new blue kyocera ceramic peeler, it holds an edge without sharpening.
and cool handles, razor sharp, super thin  edge, perfectly balanced and amazing cromova steel blades.
product # cdg-58-global-chef-knife-6in retail $129.00 and up sale price $98.95
chef notes: we like the feel of this beauty and the extra sharp thin blade.
$145.95 our new exclusive global 2 piece set features a 8 inch blade global chef  knife, the most used knife and a 2.5 in sheep foot paring knife!
choose from 7 inch blade or 5.25 in. blade below!
do not forget yourknife edge guards!
used for slicing fish and carving meats.
if you want a high quality knife set to pass through generations,  you found it.
the heavy duty belt is quick locking and easily  adjustable, one size fits all.
global santoku, hollow ground $91.95quantity: this is the new 6.5 inch blade global cleaver!
a heating process makes the natural sugar in the wood turn brown to create beautiful colors.
chef notes: we like the cutting edge look and feel of this global knife case.
it is also called a "knife  scabbard" as used by escoffier.
global minosharp black/redquantity: this is the new large global minosharp knife sharpener.
chef is using one of his nsf maple cutting boards!
21 pocket global case (pictured) $107.95 quantity: 16 pocket global case (not pictured) $93.95 quantity: 11 pocket global case (not pictured) $65.95 quantity: 10 pocket global knife roll (not pictured) $47.95 quantity: 16 pocket global knife roll (not pictured) $83.95 quantity: bakers supplies!
this is the new 3 piece global master chef knife set.
click here for the featured global minosharp video!
bladequantity: this is the new global slicing knife, a great knife for slicing fish, it easily glide through with every stroke!
each handmade  knife is forged from super high quality japanese alloy steel.
$69.95 quantity: swiss  diamond chef pan has 200,000 diamonds on sale now!
if you want a high quality  knife to pass through generations, you found it.
this is the new 2 pc. set, 5.5 in.
holds up to 7 large knives (knives are not included).
chefs note: sweet slicer, cool handle, razor sharp, super thin edge, perfectly balanced and amazing cromova steel blade.
the deba is used in traditional japanes prep for cutting fish, chicken and meat.
quantity: butcher blocks are on sale!
it has a 10 in. blade!
the cro in cromova 18 stands for chromium and the 18 is the  percentage of chromium in the steel.
great as a trivet for hot pots.
yes, get a 2 pack, measuring aprox.
chefs note: sweet  knife set, cool handles, razor sharp, super thin edge, perfectly balanced and  amazing cromova steel blade.
chefs note: sweet santoku, cool handle, razor sharp, super thin edge, perfectly balanced and amazing cromova steel blade.
these are the new large global global ceramic sharpening stones.
they were designed in 1985 by komin yamada.
bonus: free offer below, buy 8 knives with free bonus item and add the free  knife to your cart!
choose from several below.
chefs favorite pasta supplies!
each handmade knife  features blades forged from super high quality japanese alloy steel.
we have low prices on these chopping blocks!
chefs note: sweet chef knife, cool handle, razor sharp, super thin edge, perfectly balanced and amazing cromova steel blade.
click here for black & blue knife guards....
used for garnishing and working with small fruits and vegetables.
it has a 5.25 in. blade!
it includes a 3.5 in paring knife, 6 in.
phone: 630-739-5200 this is the new 7 inch blade global santoku features hollow ground air pockets that easily glide through food!
featured in a special gift box with bonus.
global knives are  manufactured by yoshikin in niigata, japan.
these two elements give a knife good edge retention.
and cool handles, razor sharp, super  thin edge, perfectly balanced and amazing cromova steel blades.
if you want a high  quality knife to pass through generations, you found it.
global chefs vegetable nakiri global chefs vegetable nakiri, hollow ground $91.95 quantity: make your own pizza!
each handmade knife is forged from super high  quality japanese alloy steel.
forged steak knife set includes four forged steak knives (3.5 in. blades).
product # cdg42/41-global-knife-magnet retail $199.00 and up on  sale $151.95 global heavy duty stainless steel magnetic knife rack is made in  japan, a cool modern design!
carving knife, 8.75 in bread knife, 11 slot block.
chefs note: sweet knife block.
this is the new 3.5 and 4 inch blade global paring knives, it easily glide through food!
we like the size of this knife.
this holder helps to free up precious drawer and counter space.
product # cdg-9-global-bread-knife-8.75in retail $159.00 and up sale price $109.95 this is the new 8 3/4 inch serrated blade global bread knife, it easily  glide through crusty bread, cakes, sandwiches and more!
they use global knives to prep and slice the sushi.
the edge that it holds remains throughout heavy use.
the cro in cromova 18 stands for chromium  and the 18 is the percentage of chromium in the steel.
bonus: free offer below, buy 8 knives with free bonus item and add the free knife to your cart!
bonus: free offers above & below!
it includes a 4 in paring knife, 5 in.
chefs note: the base is very stable so it does not move around while in use.
it wil lsharpen the titanium knives, or any good quality knife blade quickly and easily.
the combination of the elements molybdenum and vanadium is one reason, even as the global straight edge gets dull it is still much thinner, and, therefore, much sharper than the knife with the beveled edge.
a few global products are not pictured, call us.
the cro in cromova 18 stands for chromium and the 18 is the percentage of chromium in the steel.
works for righty or lefty.
chefs note: a really amazing boning knife, cool handle, razor sharp, super thin edge, perfectly balanced and amazing cromova steel blade.
chefs note: sweet hw chef knives, cool handles, razor sharp, super thin edge, perfectly balanced and amazing cromova steel blades.
it is also called a "knife scabbard" as used by escoffier.
receive a pro waiters wine opener for free with $200.00 purchase of global cutlery ($200.00 or more)!
chefs  note: sweet knife, cool handle, razor sharp, super thin edge, perfectly  balanced and amazing cromova steel blade.
block setquantity: this is the new 10 inch blade global chef knife, the most used knife, it easily glide through food!
see free offers below!
yoshikin uses its  own proprietary stainless steel which it calls cromova 18 stainless steel.
it is a handy little sharpener that's necessary to avoid scratching the titanium or polish on any high quality knife.
product # cd2011-global-chef-knife-paring-2pc retail $199.00 and up sale price
and 7 inch blade global hollow ground vegetable knives!
after harvesting bamboo it grows back quickly since the root system is so dense.
yoshikin uses its own proprietary stainless steel which it calls cromova 18  stainless steel.
product # cdgs-38-global-paring-knife-3.5in retail $85.00 and up sale price $61.95
chef notes: we like the perfect balance and feel of  these beautiful knives, the extra sharp thin blade are amazing.
keeps a sharper edge longer than most other knives.
sale price $164.95 this is the new global stainless steel knife block.
large global minosharp black/redquantity: product # cd15inroundx2incuttingboardw/logo list price $109.95 and up sale price $79.00
global chefs utility knife gs-3quantity: this is the new global chefs vegetable nakiri knife.
bonus: free offers  above & below!
simply global, easy to use.
a great choice for chefs and gourmet cooks!