the type of edge used for a particular cutting or slicing  project is very important.
the hollow indents in the blade allow food to slide right off without sticking.
next session("tempdesc")=session("tempdesc") & metataglist 'code for keywords iupper = ubound(keyw)
if you're looking for the basics for food prep, each knife will work to your expectations and more, ensuring precision cutting, slicing and chopping.
the knife used most often by  any cook is the paring knife.
it is weaker than the flat ground blade but has the advantage of being lighter.
stainless steel blades are  made from an alloy of iron with 10-15 % chromium, maybe some nickel and  molybdenum with only a very small amount of carbon.
they are easy to care for and some chefs will use nothing else.
gourmet asian cook's set, hollow edge every element of this renowned cutlery contributes to its precision and ease of use.
replace(itemname, "", "") ' addition amanat ali
plastic handles can be molded into almost any shape you can imagine.
paring knife is ideal for making  precise cuts and incisions and for small chopping jobs.
steak knife set with wood case this dark wood case is home to a collection of quality-made steak knives  from wusthof.
grand prix ii steak knife set with aluminum box treat yourself to the finest quality steak knives, designed for everything  from a well-grilled porterhouse to roasted poultry.
desca(iswappos) desca(iswappos)
boning knife ,  10-in.
descc=array("we have an affordable and great selection of chef coats, cook shirts, chef hats, chef pants, chef uniforms, chef accessories, and unbeatable prices on dickies chef uniforms in the restaurant food service hospitality industry.", "if you work in the law enforcement or security industry you will want to check out our prices on security uniforms, police shirts, security pants, handcuffs, metal detectors, and security badges.
the higher the percentage of carbon to iron, the better the blade.
this type of material  cannot be sharpened as sharp as the carbon steel blade, but it is very  resistant to staining and discoloration.
vartmp next metataglist = session("temptitle") & ", " for iloop = lbound(keyw) to ubound(keyw) if iloop<>ubound (keyw) then metataglist = metataglist & keyw(iloop) & ", " else metataglist = metataglist & keyw(iloop) end if next session("temptitle")=session("temptitle") end sub sub header() %>  ?
we offer discount pricing on bulk bath towels, bar mops, and hand towels.")
the basic handles are wood, plastic, composite and stainless steel.
20-pc. set includes: 2.75-in.
core apples, tomatoes and more.
"select * from tblproducts
wear accessories and vests - formal wear - designer and formal vests - dress shirts and blouses - banded dress shirts - casual dress shirts - oxford shirts - neckties cummerbunds and bow ties - bow ties - cummerbunds - neckties - serving gloves - suit coats and blazers - suit pants and skirts - mens suit pants - skirts and a-line skirts - womens suit pants - tuxedo pants - tuxedo shirts - medical uniforms - cherokee nursing uniforms & medical scrubs - cherokee empire waist tunic top prints - cherokee halloween scrub tops - cherokee mock wrap tunic top prints - cherokee v-neck tunic prints - cherokee whites and lab coats - cherokee womens shoes - dickies medical scrubs & nursing uniforms - dickies everyday scrubs - dickies hip flip scrubs - dickies mens scrubs - ewc nursing uniform scrub tops & medical tunics - landau medical scrubs & nursing uniforms - landau mens medical uniforms - landau unisex medical uniforms - landau womens medical uniforms - medical lab coats - cherokee whites and lab coats - nursing dresses - nursing smocks - nursing uniform scrub and hospital pants - housekeeping uniforms - hotel and housekeeping service pants - hotel and housekeeping service shirts - housekeeping dresses and hotel service tunics - security and police uniforms - accessories security - security guard and police pants - security guard and police shirts - security officer badges - security officer patches - spa and salon uniforms - spa / salon jackets - spa / salon vests - spa / salon wraps promotional products - t-shirts activewear & casual - activewear and t-shirts - 100% cotton t-shirts - 50/50 t-shirts - jerseys - long sleeve t-shirts - organic t-shirts - performance fabric t-shirts - pigment-dyed t-shirts - ringer tees - shorts - t-shirts with pocket - tanks - tie-dye t-shirts - youth t-shirts - camp shirts - fleece jackets | sweatshirts | sweatpants - crewneck sweatshirts - heavyweight sweatshirts - jackets and hooded sweatshirts full zip 1/2 -zip & 1/4-zip - ladies jackets and hooded sweatshirts - performance sweatshirts - pullover hoods - sweatpants - scarves and gloves - shorts - mens - shorts - womens - totes - bags - duffels - briefs - coolers - backpacks - briefcases/messengers - cinch packs - coolers - duffels - golf bags - grocery totes - organic - totes/specialty bags - travel bags - towels - blankets - golf towels - robes - blankets - golf towels - infant/toddler - robes/towels towels - aprons - bar aprons - bib aprons - bistro aprons - formal aprons - busboy/dishwasher aprons - cornerstone and port authority work aprons - deluxe waist aprons oxford shirts - polo shirts - 100% cotton polo
in all, there are eight knives, crafted of 18/10 stainless steel  with serrated edges and polished handles.
this asian cook's set works well for preparing traditional  asian fare and much more.
gourmet steak knife block set handsome and precise, these razor-sharp steak knives by wusthof gourmet easily cut the thickest steaks and chops.
from their gourmet line, the set includes one straight paring knife,  one traditional paring knife and one bird's beak peeling knife for all your  cutting needs.
we offer hundreds of products (new items added frequently) including an affordable and great selection of chef coats, chef hats, chef pants, chef uniforms and chef accessories in the food service hospitality industry.
ilower to iupper iswappos =
we also offer uniforms for spa resorts hotels (maid housekeeping) and security uniforms.
a iupper = ubound(desca) ilower = lbound(desca) randomize timer for iloop =
full tangs provide perfect balance while the high-impact composition handles are triple-riveted for added durability.
titanium alloy blades are lighter and more flexible than steel blades.
the stainless blade, while not hand forged, will perfectly suit beginning cooks or the occasional gourmet.
offset decorating knife,  6-in.
also works well when dicing onions or other vegetables.
razor sharp cutting  performance at affordable prices.
it is  normally a longer, heavy constructed knife that will handle the abuse of the  overzealous cook.
do while not menuitems.
steak knife set with aluminum case instead of the wood-handled steak knives that you see so much of, how about a stylishly new steak knife set in stainless steel?
this type  of knife is less expensive than the forged one, but it must be replaced on a  regular basis.
this blade is  very strong but is heavy.
this 8-pc. steak set allows you and family  or friends to enjoy a delicious steak or roast without fuss, and it comes in an  attractive brushed aluminum case, only from wusthof.
this blade is  easily sharpened and holds its edge well.
how often will you use a particular knife, what will it will be used for, and how much are you willing to spend are just a few of the things you should look at.
take advantage of our wholesale prices on chef uniforms, nursing uniforms, formal wear, work uniforms, and other career uniforms.
sharpness is also a key factor in easing the  strain on the user.
they do  not discolor like the carbon blades, but they can be sharpened to a keen edge  that is long lasting.
classic black professional chef's knife set prized possessions of professional chefs, wusthof knives are an invaluable asset of any kitchen.
an update to the original line, the  wusthof grand prix ii knives offer more ergonomically designed handles combined  with the high quality and contemporary good looks chef's desire.
the better  knives are balanced so as they are being used they do not feel awkward.
i mean they feel heavy or light at the pointed end.
the 5-piece pro chef's classic cutlery set from wusthof includes: 3.5-in.
razor sharp cutting performance at affordable prices.
we offer the best price on bib aprons, bar aprons, waist aprons, restaurant and chef aprons.
best buy uniforms offers our customers the best selection in embroidered and logo apparel including polo shirts, golf shirts, womens shirts, jackets, hats and more!
classic black steak knife set handsome and precise, these razor-sharp steak knives by wusthof classic easily cut the thickest steaks and chops.
this type of knife is less expensive than the forged one, but it must be replaced on a regular basis.
full tangs provide perfect balance.
the high-carbon  stainless steel blades are hardened to maintain a sharp edge for exact and  precise cutting.
silverpoint cheese knife set wusthof's cheese set includes two instruments for cutting a number of  cheeses - the perfect accessories for your next cocktail party.
the knife used most often by any cook is the paring knife.
after traveling the world, he retired in 1997  after 20 years of service and has recently moved back to oklahoma.
the high-carbon stainless steel blades are hardened to maintain a  sharp edge for exact and precise cutting.
each small variation results  in a different use.
if pageid = "detail" then response.write " buy " & itemname & " from best buy uniforms" session("temptitle") = "" & itemname elseif pageid = "pricing" then response.write "best buy uniforms pricing table of " & itemname & "" session("temptitle") = "best buy uniforms's pricing details of " & itemname else response.write "best buy uniforms " & itemname & "" session("temptitle") =
from their gourmet line, the set includes one straight paring knife, one traditional paring knife and one bird's beak peeling knife for all your cutting needs.
use it to make fancy and fun cuts in vegetables for beautiful  presentations.
" />, uniforms, work uniforms, chef uniforms, corporate uniforms, medical uniform, chef uniform, apparel, nursing uniforms, polo shirts, chef wear, dickies scrubs, security uniforms, linens, towels, aprons, maid uniforms, housekeeping uniform, restaurant uniforms, attire, security uniforms, work shirt, chef shoes, hotel uniforms, chef coat, chef jacket, formal wear, hospital uniform, tunics, smocks, sweaters, business uniform, work pants" /> ï»¿ 1-800-345-1924 contact | live chat | sizing | catalog | order form | faqs | returns | shopping cart uniforms ï»¿ - career uniforms - basic oxford shirts - caps - camouflage caps - cotton twill and canvas caps - fleece caps and beanies - flex fit caps - full brim caps - ladies caps - performance and athletic caps - pigment and garment dyed caps - racing caps - safety caps - sandwich bill and contrast trim caps - visors - youth caps - casual dress shirts - dress pants - dress shirts and blouses - banded dress shirts - casual dress shirts - oxford shirts - oxford shirts - polo shirts and knit shirts - 100%
included in the set is a 4.75-in.
santoku knife,  similar to the japanese cook's knife, is just right for slicing sushi and  sashimi paper-thin.
the steak knives are hand-forged in 38 manufacturing steps by skilled craftsmen.
", "we have amazing deals on uniforms for spa resorts hotels as well as maid and housekeeping uniforms.", "we also offer dickies work shirts, work pants, coveralls, work uniforms, and other industrial safety work wear including hi visibility and safety work uniforms.") 'code for description sentence
manufacturers form them with bumps and finger grooves to help eliminate this problem.
the hollow indents in the blade allow food to slide right  off without sticking.
laminate blades are made by layering different materials together.
gourmet paring knife set wusthof brings you this trio of knives at an incredible price too good to  pass up!
how often will you use a particular knife, what will it will  be used for, and how much are you willing to spend are just a few of the things  you should look at.
made of the highest quality  high-carbon stainless steel to hold a sharp edge and resist stains and rust.
they do not discolor like the carbon blades, but they can be sharpened to a keen edge that is long lasting.
culinar steak knife set with aluminum case exciting looks in cutlery, wusthof's culinar series melds masterfully-made blades with dynamic, 18/10 stainless steel handles.
paired with it is the classic  cutter that slices your cheeses into thin, square shapes.
they are extremely hard and will hold their edge for a long time.
the lightweight knives have high-impact plastic handles secured to the knives with three stainless steel rivets.
choosing your knife will be determined by  several factors.
long cheese knife for cutting wedges of gruyère and  gouda; the etched sides deter semi-soft cheeses from sticking, and the stepped  handle elevates your hand as you slice downward.
"best buy uniforms" end if end
movenext loop elseif request.querystring("id")
detailed with a brushed  finish on the contoured handles, the 4.5-in.
when we say we are the one stop shop for all of your uniform requirements; we really mean it.
about the author born and raised in a small town in oklahoma.
part of the classic series, these knives, made in  solingen, germany, are hand-forged in 38 manufacturing steps by skilled  craftsmen.
every element of this renowned classic cutlery  contributes to its precision and ease of use.
", "we also offer a wide variety of formal wear, dress shirts, dress pants, vests, tuxedo shirts, suits, skirts, ties and blazers.
this steak knife set by wusthof also makes a great gift for  the meat lover in your family.
it should give you the basic information you need to make a qualified decision.
composite handles incorporate the best of the wood and plastic materials.
replace(itemname, "", "") response.write "best buy uniforms large image - " & itemname & "" session("temptitle") =
they're part of the classic series, a harmonious blend of precision cutting performance, integrity of materials, safety and comfort.
grand prix ii steak knife set with aluminum box treat yourself to the finest quality steak knives, designed for everything from a well-grilled porterhouse to roasted poultry.
carbon steel blades are made from iron with about 2% carbon.
we also offer uniforms for spa resorts hotels (maid housekeeping) and security.
replace(itemname, "", "") itemname =
the serrated blade looks like a saw.
makes a nice gift for the  gourmet on your list.
santoku knife, similar to the japanese cook's knife, is  just right for slicing sushi and sashimi paper-thin.
the set makes a wonderful gift, too, presented in the  handsome storage case.
they will cut the glaze on a dinner plate and should only be used on a cutting board.
complete cutlery attache set
offering quality uniforms at an affordable price everyday."
this blade is very strong but is heavy.
wooden handles are the most attractive and do not become slick when wet.
we offer discount prices on  best of all you can place your order securely, quickly and easily right on our website where most orders are processed and shipped out within 24 hours if they are in stock.
the stainless blade, while not hand  forged, will perfectly suit beginning cooks or the occasional gourmet.
the down side of this is they tend  rust if they are not dried immediately after washing.
in addition, we don’t stock our shelves with the same old uniforms and then walk away and forget it.
the high-carbon stainless steel blades are hardened to maintain a sharp edge and full tangs provide perfect balance with riveted, high-impact composition handles.
at bestbuyuniforms.com we offer first class service to all of our customers.
they are made from carbon steel, stainless steel, stamped steel ceramic or even plastic.
= request.querystring("cid") then if menuitems("parentid") <> "0" then catname =
classic black mignon steak knife set with aluminum case even with tender cuts of meat, like filet mignon, you'll want a sharp knife  for serving and savoring each bite.
the  modern plastic handle has evolved into ergonomically designed units designed by  a computer.
"select * from tblcategories;" 'response.write db.connectionstring set menuitems = db.execute(sql)
long cheese knife for cutting wedges of gruyère and gouda; the etched sides deter semi-soft cheeses from sticking, and the stepped handle elevates your hand as you slice downward.
sandwich knife , 8-in.
the 6-piece classic cook's set from wusthof includes: 4-in.
some people think the discoloration  imparts a flavor into the food.
for the serious chef who cooks on the road, at demos, in school and at  home, consider this wusthof super chef's attache set.
over time they obtain a  dark color considered to be the sign of a quality knife.
the business edge the type and design of the knife edge determines how it should be used.
classic black starter set
classic black asian cook's set, hollow edge every element of the wusthof classic cutlery contributes to its precision and ease of use.
over time they obtain a dark color considered to be the sign of a quality knife.
in all, there are eight knives, crafted of 18/10 stainless steel with serrated edges and polished handles.
steak knives are hand-forged by  skilled craftsmen following a 38-step manufacturing process.
wooden handles are the most  attractive and do not become slick when wet.
plastic blades are not very sharp and are specialized in the use in the  kitchen.
sharpening steel, lemon zester,  channel knife, double melon baller, apple corer, 2 larding needles & 1  trussing needle.
best buy uniforms sitemap chef & cooking tips nursing and medical tips police and security tips business & work uniform tips wusthof knife sets wusthof 3-pc.
the only way to decide if you want one of these types is to buy and try.
bird's beak peeler gourmet, 4-in.
manufacturers form them with  bumps and finger grooves to help eliminate this problem.
we have a large variety of to fulfill all of our customers needs.
classic black steak knife set handsome and precise, these razor-sharp steak knives by wusthof classic  easily cut the thickest steaks and chops.
this blade is easily sharpened and holds its edge well.
flexible fillet knife, 8-in.
send us an e-mail at webmaster@bestbuyuniforms.com "
choosing your knife will be determined by several factors.
- outerwear - athletic outerwear - camouflage outerwear - corporate jackets - denim jackets - insulated jackets - leather suede and wool jackets - parkas shell jackets and systems - poly fleece jackets - soft shell jackets - vests - wind shirts - workwear jackets - youth jackets - sweaters - best selling sweaters - mens cotton sweaters - port authority and red house sweaters - womens cotton sweaters - table linens - banquet cloths - napkins - tablecloths custom logo apparel - table skirting - clips - stretch fabric table skirting - tableskirting hotel training videos - dickies school uniforms - backpacks - limited supply school uniforms sale - school pants - school shirts food service dvds restaurant hospitality books about us our clients company stores return policies career opportunities testimonials site map nursing resources culinary resources chef and cooking articles nursing and medical articles police and security articles business and work articles ï»¿
the full tang knives provide the perfect balance while the  high-impact, composition handles are triple-riveted for added and lasting  durability.
it is a small knife that is easy to handle and  can be used for cutting, peeling and dicing fruits, vegetables, meats, cheeses,  etc. construction
with their brilliant shine, the  knives will blend beautifully with your finest flatware.
made in solingen, germany, each cutting utensil is hand-forged by skilled craftsmen following a 38-step manufacturing process.
paring knife gourmet, 4-in.
the high-carbon stainless steel blades are hardened to maintain a sharp edge, and full tangs provide perfect balance with riveted, high-impact composition handles.
the down side of this is they tend rust if they are not dried immediately after washing.
= ubound(descc) ilower = lbound(descc)
in solingen, germany, each piece is hand-forged in 38  manufacturing steps by skilled craftsmen.
the 6-piece classic cook's set from wusthof includes:  4-in.
if you are looking for linens, napkins, and banquet tablecloths we have you covered on those as well with quality restaurant tablecloths, napkins and banquet cloths that you can afford.
in solingen, germany, each piece  is hand-forged in 38 manufacturing steps by skilled craftsmen.
the brushed aluminum case is padded on the inside for safe storing and has a handsome latch closure.
the full tang knives provide the perfect balance while the high-impact, composition handles are triple-riveted for added and lasting durability.
it easily slices through  thicker cuts so you can enjoy every last bite.
sharpening steel , 5-in.
some individuals claim the porosity of the wood retains bacteria and refuse to use them.
they are used to cut vegetables so they don't turn dark.
high carbon stainless steel blades combine the best of both worlds.
the  number of possibilities is endless.
set  includes: 3.5-in paring knife , 6-in.
this steak knife set by wusthof also makes a great gift for the meat lover in your family.
comments or suggestions on how to make your online experience even better?
they are the most sanitary but can be tricky to handle when wet.
made of the highest quality  high-carbon stainless steel to hold a sharp edge and resist stains and rust,  every wusthof knife is hand-forged in 38 manufacturing steps by skilled  craftsmen in solingen, germany.
the set makes a stunning gift for any gourmet.
slicing, dicing, and chopping are some of the primary uses of  the cook's knife.
i will not go into detail here, but this  type of blade is more often than not preferred by chefs.
they fit your hand nicely, but a lot of pole people complain about the "one-size-fits-all" concept.
replace(catname, "", "") catname =
for your fine cuts of meat like filet mignon, the world's finest cutlery  set.
set is designed for all the special needs that a small blade meets, such as coring, paring, styling, decorating, scoring and mincing.
there are several  types of material used in the manufacturing of the blade material.
international orders partners nursing resources culinary resources chef & cooking articles nursing and medical articles police and security articles business & work uniform articles chef knives  "view" then if request.querystring("cid")
the lightweight knives have high-impact, plastic handles securely riveted in three places.
silverpoint cheese knife set wusthof's cheese set includes two instruments for cutting a number of cheeses - the perfect accessories for your next cocktail party.
if session("tempdesc")="" dim keyw dim desca dim metataglist dim iupper, ilower, iloop, iswappos, vartmp keyw = array ("work uniforms", "wholesale","shirts", "pants", "restaurant uniforms", "chef uniform","corporate apparel", "security uniform", "formal vest","clothes", "clothing","embroidery", "wholesale uniforms", "work shirts", "dress pants", "aprons", "scrubs", "linens", "towels", "work pants", "chef coats", "nursing uniform","housekeeping uniform", "polos", "chef wear", "scrubs", "linen", "towel","apron", "maid", "attire", "shoes","knives", "coat", "jacket", "knife", "custom","logo", "hospital", "tunic", "smock", "discount uniforms", "cheap uniforms") desca= array("if you work in a hospital or you're in the medical or nursing career field we have you covered too with great deals on cherokee nursing uniforms with a large new variety of nursing scrub prints, dickies medical scrubs, landau nursing uniforms, economy nursing uniform scrubs, lab coats, smocks, tunics, warm up jackets and more.", "if you are looking for discount prices on linens, napkins, and banquet tablecloths we have you covered on those as well with quality restaurant tablecloths, napkins and banquet cloths that you can afford.", "for schools, students and teachers we offer wholesale pricing on dickies school uniforms, shirts, and pants.
the way knives are constructed determines several things.
in addition to the best corporate, chef,  nursing, and work uniforms, best buy uniforms offers custom corporate  embroidered and silk screened logos for your uniforms.
his rule to live  by "never give up, never surrender" best buy uniforms is a member of the better  business bureau we care about customer satisfaction, quality, and would like to make your online experience as easy  as possible maybe that's why we areamerica's 1st choice for  uniforms and apparel.
he has  started and online store to supplement his retirement income.
sharpening steel, lemon zester, channel knife, double melon baller, apple corer, 2 larding needles & 1 trussing needle.
we now offer landau nursing uniforms as well as economy nursing uniform scrubs.
set includes: 3.5-in paring knife , 6-in.
choosing the right kitchen cutlery by johnny shaw kitchen knives come in all sizes and shapes.
the higher the  percentage of carbon to iron, the better the blade.
"best buy uniforms offers " & itemname end if else response.write "" & settitle & " " session("temptitle") =
it is a small knife that is easy to handle and can be used for cutting, peeling and dicing fruits, vegetables, meats, cheeses, etc. construction
the set makes a  stunning gift for any gourmet.
by  awkward i mean they feel heavy or light at the pointed end.
the only way to decide if you want one of  these types is to buy and try.
> "" then 'initialise the strsql variable with an sql statement to query the database sql =
the slicing knife is for use in slicing food such as ham or large cuts of meat.
if else ' new adition amanat ali if request.querystring("id") <
confectioner's knife  gourmet, 11-in.
also, plastic handles can be slippery when wet.
if you are looking for linens we have you covered on those as well with restaurant tablecloths, napkins and banquet cloths.
the slicing knife is for use in slicing food such as ham or  large cuts of meat.
we offer hundreds of products including chef coats, chef hats, chef pants, chef uniforms, chef aprons, towels and restaurant accessories in the food service hospitality industry.
he has started and online store to supplement his retirement income.
for your fine cuts of meat like filet mignon, the world's finest cutlery set.
the brushed aluminum case is padded on the  inside for safe storing and has a handsome latch closure.
the molded handle resembles that of the grand prix line  and adds comfort to kitchen performance.
they fit your hand nicely, but a lot of pole people complain about  the "one-size-fits-all" concept.
use it to make fancy and fun cuts in vegetables for beautiful presentations.
the number of possibilities is endless.
gourmet asian cook's set, hollow edge every element of this renowned cutlery contributes to its precision and  ease of use.
prized possessions of professional chefs, wusthof knives are an invaluable  asset of any kitchen.
if you're looking for the basics for food prep, each knife will work to your  expectations and more, ensuring precision cutting, slicing and chopping.
best buy uniforms offers the  lowest prices and highest quality chef uniforms, chef apparel, chef wear , chef  coats, chef jackets, chef aprons, chef hats, chef gloves, chef pants, chef  knives, discount chef pants, baggy chef pants, affordable chef pants, custom  chef pants in corporate u.s.a.
stamped blades are designed to be made in mass.
if you're in the medical or nursing field we have you covered too with great deals on dickies medical scrubs, landau nursing uniforms, economy nursing uniform scrubs, lab coats, smocks, tunics, warm up jackets and more.
this 8-pc. steak set allows you and family or friends to enjoy a delicious steak or roast without fuss, and it comes in an attractive brushed aluminum case, only from wusthof.
made of the highest quality high-carbon stainless steel to hold a sharp edge and resist stains and rust, every wusthof knife is hand-forged in 38 manufacturing steps by skilled craftsmen in solingen, germany.
they are extremely hard and will hold  their edge for a long time.
an update to the original line, the wusthof grand prix ii knives offer more ergonomically designed handles combined with the high quality and contemporary good looks chef's desire.
we also offer a wide variety of formal wear, dress shirts, dress pants, vests, tuxedo shirts, suits, skirts, ties and blazers.
detailed with a brushed finish on the contoured handles, the 4.5-in.
from wusthof, these four knives are crafted of 18/10 stainless steel with serrated edges and polished handles.
they're part of the classic series, a harmonious  blend of precision cutting performance, integrity of materials, safety and  comfort.
part of wusthof's classic series,  the fully-forged knives are hand-forged by skilled craftsmen in solingen,  germany.
forged blades are made in a detailed process that takes a lot of time and  is accomplished by skilled craftsman.
steak knives is essential for anyone who grills or appreciates a fine filet of meat.
steel blades are either forged or stamped.
sharpening steel , cordura roll, with pockets for storing and protecting knives and taking them on the road. .
confectioner's knife gourmet, 11-in.
forged blades are made in a detailed process that takes a lot of time and is accomplished by skilled craftsman.
the "gourmet" series by wusthof is their entry level  line of cutlery, featuring full tangs with non-forged blades of high-carbon,  rust-free alloy.
the perfectly balanced tool features molded handles that  are slip resistant and completely hygienic.
for lasting performance, use your steel to sharpen knives before  each use.
we have amazing deals on dickies work shirts, work pants, coveralls, work uniforms, and other industrial safety work wear including hi visibility and safety work uniforms.
classic black steak knife set these classic black knives go well with your elegant filet mignon or porterhouse steaks.
replace(catname, "", "") response.write "" & catname & " from best buy uniforms " session("temptitle") = "" & catname else response.write "" & catname & " from best buy uniforms " session("temptitle") = "" & catname end if end if menuitems.
the set of eight knives  comes with an aluminum case, padded inside with a latch on the outside for  added protection.
best buy uniforms and promos™ 500 east 8th avenue homestead pa, 15120-1904 usa telephone toll-free: 1.800.345.1924 local: 412.461.4600 fax: 412.461.4016 email customer-service @bestbuyuniforms.com showroom hours monday - friday 8:30am - 5pm  ï»¿ © 2011 best buy uniforms and promos™   wusthof knife sets click here to go to our new website search 1.800.345.1924 | testimonials | free catalog | shopping cart - career uniforms corporate attire casual dress shirts & dress pants - business accessories - polos t-shirts hats & jackets - formal wear tuxedo dress shirts ties skirts vests blazers & suits - chef uniforms chef coats chef pants & cook shirts - aprons - bib bar bistro waist restaurant & moneypouch - work uniforms coveralls jackets coats dickies work shirts & pants - dickies painter uniforms - medical scrubs lab coats smocks & nursing uniforms - table linens tablecloths napkins & banquet cloths - towels - table skirting - security uniforms & police shirts - housekeeping & maid uniforms - dickies school uniforms - clearance uniforms and items - hospitality food service chef and restaurant training videos - hotel and resort training dvds - spa uniforms & salon apparel - new sweaters our prices are as much as 50% off competitors prices for some of the same exact uniforms take a look for yourself!
hollow ground blades look a lot like the flat ground except starting about halfway up the blade it is ground into a concave shape.
this type of material cannot be sharpened as sharp as the carbon steel blade, but it is very resistant to staining and discoloration.
contained in this brushed aluminum storage box are four special mignon  knives, made of high-carbon, stainless steel with unique, hook-shaped blades  that pierce and slice with elegance and ease.
paired with it is the classic cutter that slices your cheeses into thin, square shapes.
classic black cook's set prized possessions of professional chefs, wusthof knives are an invaluable  asset of any kitchen.
prized possessions of professional chefs, wusthof knives are an invaluable asset in any kitchen.
shirts - basic polo shirts - cotton/poly blend polo shirts - golf apparel - ladies specialty knit polo shirts - long sleeve polo shirts - mock & turtlenecks - organic polo shirts - performance fabric polo shirts - polo shirts with pocket - premium knit polo shirts - silk touch polo shirts - tall polo shirts
classic black mignon steak knife set with aluminum case even with tender cuts of meat, like filet mignon, you'll want a sharp knife for serving and savoring each bite.
conclusion this information is not by any means everything there is to know.
every element of this renowned cutlery  contributes to its precision and ease of use.
- workwear pique polo shirts
this set, made up of  cutlery from the classic and gourmet collection, contains everything you need  for preparing hors d'oeuvres to desserts.
proper balance eases the strain on the user.
classic knife set is all you need to get started in the kitchen.
in solingen, germany, each piece is hand-forged in 38 manufacturing steps by skilled craftsmen.
vartmp next metataglist = "" for iloop = lbound(descc) to ubound(descc) metataglist = metataglist & descc(iloop)
vartmp next metataglist = session("temptitle") & ". "
each grand prix ii knife is precision forged of a single blank of high carbon stainless steel, skillfully honed by hand twice.
this is up to the individual as whether this factor is included in the decision process.
the  serrated blade allows it to easily slice through a loaf of bread or a tomato  without crushing or tearing.
vartmp next metataglist = "" for iloop = lbound(descb) to ubound(descb) metataglist = metataglist & descb(iloop) if iloop=ubound(descb)-1 then metataglist = metataglist & " " elseif iloop=ubound(descb)
the steak knife is normally a smaller version of the slicing knife, designed for individual use.
part of the classic series, these knives, made in solingen, germany, are hand-forged in 38 manufacturing steps by skilled craftsmen.
i will not go into detail here, but this type of blade is more often than not preferred by chefs.
flat ground blades are tapered from the backbone to the edge.
makes a nice gift for the gourmet on your list.
prized possessions of professional chefs,  wusthof knives are an invaluable asset in any kitchen.
they will cut the glaze on a dinner plate and  should only be used on a cutting board.
it is weaker than the  flat ground blade but has the advantage of being lighter.
we know that if you pay less for great quality you will make us your one stop shop.
whether you are ordering a couple of our quality uniforms or a couple hundred; your order will be professionally handled with care.
we continually stock our shelves with the latest popular styles so that our customers have the best on the market to choose from.
- cotton/poly blend shirts - denim shirts - easy care shirts - fishing shirts - tall shirts - workwear shirts - youth shirts - chef uniforms - chef coats - 100% cotton chef coats - amazing deals on designer chef coats!
it actually tears the food  rather than cutting, so it should not be used for all kinds of food.
the best part of all, at bestbuyuniforms.com we work hard to ensure affordability.
gourmet steak knife block set handsome and precise, these razor-sharp steak knives by wusthof gourmet  easily cut the thickest steaks and chops.
it actually tears the food rather than cutting, so it should not be used for all kinds of food.
full tangs provide maximum safety and perfect balance, and the durable riveted handles are dishwasher-safe.
vartmp = keyw(iloop) keyw(iloop) = keyw(iswappos) keyw(iswappos) =
with their brilliant shine, the knives will blend beautifully with  your finest flatware.
the steak knife is normally a smaller version of  the slicing knife, designed for individual use.
also, plastic handles can be  slippery when wet.
culinar steak knife set with aluminum case exciting looks in cutlery, wusthof's culinar series melds masterfully-made  blades with dynamic, 18/10 stainless steel handles.
the  carbon in the alloy allows them to be heat treated so they will hold an edge  well.
steak knives are hand-forged by skilled craftsmen following a 38-step manufacturing process.
best of all you can place your order securely, quickly and easily right on our website where most orders are processed and shipped out within 24 hours if they are in stock.
styles the size and shape of the knife determines its primary use.
the cook's or chef's knife is used for the heavy duty cutting needed in the kitchen.
the down side is that they must be  professionally sharpened.
classic black cook's set prized possessions of professional chefs, wusthof knives are an invaluable asset of any kitchen.
search 1.800.345.1924 | testimonials | free catalog | shopping cart |     clients - " & catname &
we just added a large variety of mens and womens sweaters for the holiday christmas season be sure to check back for more holiday deals!
ilower = lbound(descb)
steak knives is essential for anyone who grills  or appreciates a fine filet of meat.
descb=array("take advantage of our wholesale prices on chef uniforms, nursing uniforms, formal wear, work uniforms, and other career uniforms.
then metataglist = metataglist & " " else metataglist = metataglist & " " end if next session("tempdesc")=session("tempdesc") & metataglist '''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''' 'code for description sentence c iupper
best buy uniforms offers the lowest prices and highest quality chef uniforms, chef apparel, chef wear , chef coats, chef jackets, chef aprons, chef hats, chef gloves, chef pants, chef knives, discount chef pants, baggy chef pants, affordable chef pants, custom chef pants in corporate u.s.a.
core apples, tomatoes  and more.
classic black mignon steak knife set these specialty knives from wusthof are defined by their unique,  hook-shaped blades that pierce and slice elegant filet mignons as well as thick  pork chops and other meats.
they are the most  sanitary but can be tricky to handle when wet.
contained in this brushed aluminum storage box are four special mignon knives, made of high-carbon, stainless steel with unique, hook-shaped blades that pierce and slice with elegance and ease.
every element of this renowned cutlery contributes to its precision and ease of use.
slicing, dicing, and chopping are some of the primary uses of the cook's knife.
hopefully the information given will give you a basic  understanding and an idea of what you might look for when purchasing your  kitchen cutlery.
every element of this renowned classic cutlery contributes to its precision and ease of use.
sharpening steel , cordura roll, with pockets for storing and protecting  knives and taking them on the road. .
cotton polo shirts - basic polo shirts - cotton/poly blend polo shirts - golf apparel - ladies specialty knit polo shirts - long sleeve polo shirts - mock & turtlenecks - organic polo shirts - performance fabric polo shirts - polo shirts with pocket - premium knit polo shirts - silk touch polo shirts - tall polo shirts
proper balance  eases the strain on the user.
silverpoint paring knife set wusthof, manufacturers of quality cutlery, offers a paring knife set that's  both affordable and functional.
the blade and shape on the 6.5-in.
wood handles are made from hardwoods.
use it to make fancy and  fun cuts in vegetables for beautiful presentations.
the quality of the metal  used is such that it can be worked quickly into a finished product.
set of 6 comes in its own wooden storage block for safety and easy access.
salmon slicer gourmet, 10-in.
his rule to live by "never give up, never surrender" best buy uniforms is a member of the better business bureau we care about customer satisfaction, quality, and would like to make your online experience as easy as possible maybe that's why we areamerica's 1st choice for uniforms and apparel.
wusthof knife sets wusthof 3-pc.
ceramic blades are made from ceramic.
the serrated blade allows it to easily slice through a loaf of bread or a tomato without crushing or tearing.
the 5-piece pro chef's classic cutlery set from wusthof  includes: 3.5-in.
for the true steak aficionado, this set of knives is the ultimate culinary gift.
for iloop = lbound(desca) to ubound(desca) metataglist = metataglist & desca(iloop) if iloop=ubound(desca)-1 then metataglist = metataglist & " " elseif iloop=ubound(desca) then metataglist = metataglist & " " else metataglist = metataglist & " " end if next session("tempdesc")=metataglist '''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''' 'code for description sentence b iupper = ubound(descb)
the better knives are balanced so as they are being used they do not feel awkward.
we offer hundreds of quality products geared towards meeting the expectations of every type of uniform requirement.
hopefully the information given will give you a basic understanding and an idea of what you might look for when purchasing your kitchen cutlery.
set of 6 comes in its own wooden storage block for  safety and easy access.
grips or handles have made great advances further easing the strain on the user.
made of the highest quality high-carbon stainless steel to hold a sharp edge and resist stains and rust.
ilower = lbound(keyw) randomize timer for iloop =
the high-carbon stainless steel blades are hardened to maintain a sharp edge for exact and precise cutting.
there are long ones, short ones, wide ones, narrow ones, curved ones, angled ones and the list goes on and on.
the lightweight knives have high-impact, plastic  handles securely riveted in three places.
the carbon in the alloy allows them to be heat treated so they will hold an edge well.
randomize timer for iloop =
discount chef knives, bulk chef knives, affordable chef knives, wholesale chef knives, quality chef knives, low cost chef knives.
each grand prix ii knife is  precision forged of a single blank of high carbon stainless steel, skillfully  honed by hand twice.
paring knife is ideal for making precise cuts and incisions and for  small chopping jobs.
the cook's or  chef's knife is used for the heavy duty cutting needed in the kitchen.
the set of eight knives comes with an aluminum case, padded inside with a latch on the outside for added protection.
- youth polo shirts - dress shirts and blouses - banded dress shirts - casual dress shirts - oxford shirts - cherokee nursing scrubs - cherokee empire waist tunic top prints - cherokee halloween scrub tops - cherokee mock wrap tunic top prints - cherokee v-neck tunic prints - cherokee whites and lab coats - cherokee womens shoes work pants - chef coats - 100% cotton chef coats - amazing deals on designer chef coats!
- dickies chef coats - dickies chef pants - work uniforms - cornerstone & port authority workwear - aprons - cornerstone and port authority industrial work shirts - cornerstone medical uniforms and scrubs - industrial work pants - ladies workwear - safety uniforms and hi-visibility clothing - work jackets - coveralls and overalls - dickies coveralls - red kap coveralls and overalls - industrial work pants - industrial work shirts - jackets and work coats dickies - dickies denim jackets and coats - dickies duck jackets and coats - outerwear - athletic outerwear - camouflage outerwear - corporate jackets - denim jackets - insulated jackets - leather suede and wool jackets - parkas shell jackets and systems - poly fleece jackets - soft shell jackets - vests - wind shirts - workwear jackets - youth jackets - painter uniforms
we also offer a wide variety of hotel uniforms and restaurant formal wear, dress shirts, dress pants, vests, tuxedo shirts, suits, skirts, blazers, ties.
stainless steel blades are made from an alloy of iron with 10-15 % chromium, maybe some nickel and molybdenum with only a very small amount of carbon.
handle the handle of your knife can be made from an array of different materials.
the steak knives are hand-forged in 38  manufacturing steps by skilled craftsmen.
some individuals claim the  porosity of the wood retains bacteria and refuse to use them.
- chef hats - chef pants | cook pants | kitchen pants - chef shirts | cook shirts | kitchen shirts - chef uniforms for women - cook kitchen and chef accessories - neckerchiefs - xtemporarily discontinued best prices on dickies chef uniforms!
full tangs provide maximum safety and perfect balance, and the durable riveted  handles are dishwasher-safe.
the set makes a wonderful gift, too, presented in the handsome storage case.
classic black mignon steak knife set with aluminum case
menuitems("categoryid") catname = menuitems("categoryname") if cstr(catid)
full tangs provide perfect balance  while the high-impact composition handles are triple-riveted for added  durability.
in addition to the best corporate, chef, nursing, and work uniforms, best buy uniforms offers custom corporate embroidered and silk screened logos for your uniforms.
it should  give you the basic information you need to make a qualified decision.
classic black steak knife set these classic black knives go well with your elegant filet mignon or  porterhouse steaks.
the high-carbon stainless steel  blades are hardened to maintain a sharp edge and full tangs provide perfect  balance with riveted, high-impact composition handles.
"") else response.write (" - " & catname & "") end if loop response.write(" sizing charts career opportuntities free how to videos testimonials downloadable order form our prices are as much as 50% off competitors prices for some of the same exact uniforms take a look for youself!
the type of edge used for a particular cutting or slicing project is very important.
santoku knife, similar to the japanese cook's knife, is just right for slicing sushi and sashimi paper-thin.
the high-carbon stainless steel  blades are hardened to maintain a sharp edge, and full tangs provide perfect  balance with riveted, high-impact composition handles.
grips or handles have made great advances further  easing the strain on the user.
the bread knife normally has a thin serrated blade.
"best buy uniforms large image of " & itemname else response.write "best buy uniforms large image" session("temptitle") =
the down side is that they must be professionally sharpened.
this set, made up of cutlery from the classic and gourmet collection, contains everything you need for preparing hors d'oeuvres to desserts.
the quality of the metal used is such that it can be worked quickly into a finished product.
where productid = '" & request.querystring("id") & "';" set iteminfo = db.execute(sql) if iteminfo.
he married in 1971 and then joined the air force in 1977.
there are several types of material used in the manufacturing of the blade material.
there are  many variations to the ones listed.
full tangs provide maximum safety and perfect  balance, and the durable riveted handles are dishwasher-safe.
comments or suggestions on how to make your online  experience even better?
gourmet steak knife set
there are many variations to the ones listed.
boning knife , 10-in.
plastic blades are not very sharp and are specialized in the use in the kitchen.
vartmp = desca(iloop) desca(iloop) =
the hollow indents in the  blade allow food to slide right off without sticking.
the lightweight knives have high-impact plastic handles  secured to the knives with three stainless steel rivets.
eof then errorpage("the product you requested cannot be found (#badid).") end if itemname = iteminfo("itemname")
the knives feature full tangs with non-forged blades of  high-carbon, rust-free alloy.
part of wusthof's gourmet line of cutlery, these quality steakhouse knives are substantial in size - just right for carving steaks and chops, hot off the grill.
steak knife set with aluminum case instead of the wood-handled steak knives that you see so much of, how about  a stylishly new steak knife set in stainless steel?
classic black asian cook's set, hollow edge every element of the wusthof classic cutlery contributes to its precision  and ease of use.
this asian cook's set  works well for preparing traditional asian fare and much more.
steak knife set with wood case this dark wood case is home to a collection of quality-made steak knives from wusthof.
also works well when  dicing onions or other vegetables.
order  easily and securely online.
for the true steak aficionado, this set of knives is the ultimate culinary  gift.
the high-carbon stainless steel blades are hardened to maintain a  sharp edge and full tangs provide perfect balance with riveted, high-impact  composition handles.
classic black professional chef's knife set prized possessions of professional chefs, wusthof knives are an invaluable  asset of any kitchen.
we cater to the lone individual, the smallest of businesses, and the major corporate chains as well.
the "gourmet" series by wusthof is their entry level line of cutlery, featuring full tangs with non-forged blades of high-carbon, rust-free alloy.
bird's  beak peeler gourmet, 4-in.
prized possessions of professional chefs, wusthof knives are  an invaluable asset of any kitchen.
", "we offer the best price on bib aprons, bar aprons, waist aprons, restaurant and chef aprons.", "best buy uniforms offers our customers the best selection in embroidered and company logo apparel including polo shirts, golf shirts, women's shirts, jackets, hats and more!")
the blade and  shape on the 6.5-in.
prized possessions of professional chefs, wusthof knives are an  invaluable asset in any kitchen.
this is up to the  individual as whether this factor is included in the decision process.
we have a large variety of cook shirts dickies chef uniforms and cook pants at a wholesale price.
stainless steel handles are by far the most durable.
vartmp = descb(iloop) descb(iloop) = descb(iswappos) descb(iswappos) =
set is designed for all the special  needs that a small blade meets, such as coring, paring, styling, decorating,  scoring and mincing.
part of wusthof's classic series, the fully-forged knives are hand-forged by skilled craftsmen in solingen, germany.
they do not impart any flavor into your food, either.
every element of this  renowned cutlery contributes to its precision and ease of use.
the modern plastic handle has evolved into ergonomically designed units designed by a computer.
for lasting performance, use your steel to sharpen knives before each use.
prized possessions of professional chefs, wusthof knives are an invaluable asset of any kitchen.
paring knife is ideal for making precise cuts and incisions and for small chopping jobs.
the high-carbon stainless steel blades are hardened to maintain a  sharp edge, and full tangs provide perfect balance with riveted, high-impact  composition handles.
the knives feature full tangs with non-forged blades of high-carbon, rust-free alloy.
if you're in the medical or nursing field we have you covered too with great deals on dickies medical scrubs, lab coats, smocks, tunics and more.
with their brilliant shine, the knives will blend beautifully with your finest flatware.
", "take a look at our wholesale prices on spa, resort, restaurant and hotel towels.
silverpoint paring knife set wusthof, manufacturers of quality cutlery, offers a paring knife set that's both affordable and functional.
boning gourmet, 10-in.
the high-carbon  stainless steel blades are hardened to maintain a sharp edge and full tangs  provide perfect balance with riveted, high-impact composition handles.
offset decorating knife, 6-in.
ilower to iupper iswappos = int(rnd * (iupper + 1))
classic black steak knife set with aluminum case this set of four, 4.5-in.
he married in 1971 and then  joined the air force in 1977.
sharpness is also a key factor in easing the strain on the user.
dickies - polo work shirts red kap - rainwear - safety ansi hi visibility work uniforms - safety ansi work
best buy uniforms offers wholesale, discount prices on .
it easily slices through thicker cuts so you can enjoy every last bite.
each small variation results in a different use.
the perfectly balanced tool features molded handles that are slip resistant and completely hygienic.
from wusthof, these four  knives are crafted of 18/10 stainless steel with serrated edges and polished  handles.
part of wusthof's gourmet line of cutlery, these quality steakhouse  knives are substantial in size - just right for carving steaks and chops, hot  off the grill.
the molded handle resembles that of the grand prix line and adds comfort to kitchen performance.
after traveling the world, he retired in 1997 after 20 years of service and has recently moved back to oklahoma.
we offer an amazing price on bib aprons, bar aprons, waist aprons, restaurant and chef aprons.
it is ideal for cutting things that  are hard on the outside and soft on the inside.
it is normally a longer, heavy constructed knife that will handle the abuse of the overzealous cook.
it is ideal for cutting things that are hard on the outside and soft on the inside.
included in the  set is a 4.75-in.
<> "" then 'initialise the strsql variable with an sql statement to query the database sql =
we have great deals on red kap, dickies, and professional work shirts, work pants, coveralls, hi visibility safety work wear and other industrial work uniforms.
gourmet paring knife set wusthof brings you this trio of knives at an incredible price too good to pass up!
some people think the discoloration imparts a flavor into the food.
there are long ones, short ones, wide ones, narrow ones,  curved ones, angled ones and the list goes on and on.
the set makes a  wonderful gift, too, presented in the handsome storage case.
for the serious chef who cooks on the road, at demos, in school and at home, consider this wusthof super chef's attache set.
int(rnd * (iupper + 1))
classic black mignon steak knife set these specialty knives from wusthof are defined by their unique, hook-shaped blades that pierce and slice elegant filet mignons as well as thick pork chops and other meats.
discount chef knives,  bulk chef knives, affordable chef knives, wholesale chef knives, quality chef  knives, low cost chef knives.
they are made from carbon  steel, stainless steel, stamped steel ceramic or even plastic.
vartmp = descc(iloop) descc(iloop) = descc(iswappos) descc(iswappos) =
- youth polo shirts - twill shirts | denim shirts | sport shirts - 100% cotton sport and twill shirts
made in solingen, germany, each cutting  utensil is hand-forged by skilled craftsmen following a 38-step manufacturing  process.
offering quality uniforms at an affordable price  everyday.
in solingen,  germany, each piece is hand-forged in 38 manufacturing steps by skilled  craftsmen.
hollow ground blades look a lot like the flat ground except starting about  halfway up the blade it is ground into a concave shape.
they do not impart any flavor into your food.
this asian cook's set works well for preparing traditional asian fare and much more.