then, using moderate pressure and maintaining the 20° angle, draw the knife towards you and down so that the whole length of the blade – right to the tip! – is pulled against the steel at the correct angle.
name (required) mail (will not be published) (required)
it takes a lot more effort to cut food  using a blunt knife than it does with a sharp one.
(too short, and you’ll find it hard to get the right  honing action.
a steel steel generally lasts for three to four years in normal use.
as a result, you lose flavour, and the appearance isn’t helped either.
while you can do it that way – and many professionals do – it’s difficult, and involves a certain amount of risk that you’ll cut yourself if your attention wanders.
comment by not delia | 15 may 2009 @ 15:00 when i worked in a professional kitchen, i used the steel every day before  using any knife for work.
the diamond and ceramic steels last longer, but  they’re for sharpening rather than honing.
comment by not delia | 30 october 2009 @ 10:43 i’m still a bit of a wimp (unusual for me!)
how often should i hone my knives?
a safer way (and easier, if you’re unused to honing knives) is to place a towel on your worktop or kitchen table and (using your non-knife wielding hand) hold the steel in front of you with the tip firmly on the towel, pointing straight downwards.
with a bit of practice, you’ll soon have it down to a fine art – and you’ll find your cooking becomes more enjoyable as a result.
how do i keep my knives sharp?
that force gets spread more widely throughout the food,  bruising it around the cut.
use a steel made of steel, with a medium or fine grooved surface; the  longer the better.
about five times on each side of the edge should be enough, if you do it regularly.
i am a quick learner and only cut  myself once in my early days, not using the steel but testing the blade the  wrong way after honing it.
these days, even though i cook a lot, it’s not  necessary to do it all the time.
(have you ever had difficulty getting started when  slicing a tomato?
our knives regularly enough, you’ve just motivated  me to do something about it.
and the more often you do it, the  less effort you’ll need to put into doing it each time.
i think some people like to show off, because they can do this  impressive-looking rapid brandishing stuff.
website (optional - if none, leave blank) rss rss feed for comments on this post | trackback uri
this also explains why it’s best to have a really sharp knife when chopping onions – the sharper the knife, the less you cry.
(have you ever had difficulty getting started when slicing a tomato?
a good guide to go by is the length of your longest blade plus  five centimetres/two inches.)
the best way is by regular use of a steel to hone your knives.
i know some people can do very well  with the brandishing action, but somehow i never quite mastered the knack.
position your fingers are fairly safe, however your main wrist arteries seem to  be in most danger, wow, maybe too late for the turkey but that would be a good  christmas spectacle for the family.
website (optional - if none, leave blank) rss rss feed for comments on this post | trackback uri powered by wordpress copyright british expat ltd ©2008-2012 all  rights reserved entries (rss) and comments (rss).
and the more often you do it, the less effort you’ll need to put into doing it each time.
you could always make a black pudding if you hit an artery.
when i worked in a professional kitchen, i used the steel every day before using any knife for work.
as someone who is guilty of not sharpening (or should i say ‘honing’)
this also explains why it’s best to have a  really sharp knife when chopping onions – the sharper the knife, the less  you cry.
a good guide to go by is the length of your longest blade plus five centimetres/two inches.)
sharpening is what you do to create the edge, not to maintain it – and it’s a more heavy-duty process that involves grinding the blade down using a stone or a mechanical grinding tool.)
i know it looks impressive
then, using moderate pressure and  maintaining the 20° angle, draw the knife towards you and down so that the  whole length of the blade – right to the tip! – is pulled against  the steel at the correct angle.
and slipping is far more  likely with a blunt knife.
you’ll probably find the process a lot more satisfying, too.
about five times on each side of the edge  should be enough, if you do it regularly.
comment by dave | 30 october 2009 @ 10:53
as usual, i recommend nisbets for kitchen equipment.
blunt knives require more force, and more force  means less control – particularly if you slip.
(20° is the angle to which most  manufacturers grind their blades).
these days, even though i cook a lot, it’s not necessary to do it all the time.
interesting, you just made me observe, if the small guards are in the right
a steel steel generally lasts  for three to four years in normal use.
a blunt blade needs more force to push  it through the food.
comment by dave | 30 october 2009 @ 10:27 showing off is something i never give thought to as i’ve been using a  steel so long it’s of a second nature to me, thinking back to last  christmas though and the grandchildren’s faces has just made me laugh, i  must have looked like a samurai warrior.
of course blood is also a good thickener for gravy, so don’t worry  about it too much.
showing off is something i never give thought to as i’ve been using a steel so long it’s of a second nature to me, thinking back to last christmas though and the grandchildren’s faces has just made me laugh, i must have looked like a samurai warrior.
place the heel end of the edge of the blade  against the top of the steel’s grooved surface, so that the edge meets  the steel at an angle of about 20 degrees.
most of us have a mental picture in our heads of how a steel should be  used, involving the rapid brandishing of steel and knife in mid-air.
interesting, you just made me observe, if the small guards are in the right position your fingers are fairly safe, however your main wrist arteries seem to be in most danger, wow, maybe too late for the turkey but that would be a good christmas spectacle for the family.
wooden boards (particularly end-grain wooden boards, like butcher’s blocks) are kinder on your edges than plastic; glass and marble “chopping boards” are a disaster.
once a week will probably be enough in most  cases, though you may want to do it more frequently than that for the knives  you use most often, andvice versa.
that force gets spread more widely throughout the food, bruising it around the cut.
most of us have a mental picture in our heads of how a steel should be used, involving the rapid brandishing of steel and knife in mid-air.
of course blood is also a good thickener for gravy, so don’t worry about it too much.
(too short, and you’ll find it hard to get the right honing action.
blunt knives require more force, and more force means less control – particularly if you slip.
i’m still a bit of a wimp (unusual for me!)
all this may seem like a bit of a  chore, but it’s worth persevering with.
i think some people like to show off, because they can do this impressive-looking rapid brandishing stuff.
but it’s not recommended and it’s quite an easy way to give yourself a nasty cut if you’re not careful.
and slipping is far more likely with a blunt knife.
it  always seemed like a bad idea to me to brandish a knife towards your own  fingers.
with a bit of practice,  you’ll soon have it down to a fine art – and you’ll find your  cooking becomes more enjoyable as a result.
what sort of steel should i use?
(20° is the angle to which most manufacturers grind their blades).
as someone who is guilty of not sharpening (or should i say  ‘honing’)
leave a reply mail (will not be published) (required)
the second is simple efficiency.
a blunt blade needs more force to push it through the food.
this depends on how often you use them and – to a certain extent – what you use them on, especially in terms of what work surface you use.
keeping your kitchen knives sharp is one of those jobs where a little bit of effort every now and again saves a lot of trouble in the long run.
(not  ‘sharpen’ them, you’ll note.
sharp knives cut easily through whatever it is you’re trying to cut.
wooden boards (particularly end-grain wooden boards, like butcher’s  blocks) are kinder on your edges than plastic; glass and marble “chopping  boards” are a disaster.
they’ve got a  vast range of honing and sharpening tools for kitchen knives, ranging from less  than a tenner to well over a hundred pounds – just click on the banner  below to find out more!
use a sharp knife, and  you’ll get finished faster and get a lot less tired in the process.
and when i use a steel i  plant the tip of it firmly on the work top.
there’s another job for this evening.
no need to waste anything.
sharpening is what you do to  create the edge, not to maintain it – and it’s a more heavy-duty  process that involves grinding the blade down using a stone or a mechanical  grinding tool.)
while you  can do it that way – and many professionals do – it’s  difficult, and involves a certain amount of risk that you’ll cut yourself  if your attention wanders.
are diamond and ceramic steels better  than steel ones?
it always seemed like a bad idea to me to brandish a knife towards your own fingers.
use a sharp knife, and you’ll get finished faster and get a lot less tired in the process.
the third concerns the food itself.
a safer way (and easier, if you’re unused to honing knives) is to  place a towel on your worktop or kitchen table and (using your non-knife  wielding hand) hold the steel in front of you with the tip firmly on the towel,
and when i use a steel i plant the tip of it firmly on the work top.
all this may seem like a bit of a chore, but it’s worth persevering with.
(not ‘sharpen’ them, you’ll note.
the diamond and ceramic steels last longer, but they’re for sharpening rather than honing.
this depends on how often you use them and – to a certain extent  – what you use them on, especially in terms of what work surface you use.
there are three main reasons.
place the heel end of the edge of the blade against the top of the steel’s grooved surface, so that the edge meets the steel at an angle of about 20 degrees.
tags: basic techniques |  kitchen equipment | knives 6 responses » comment by luxury travel | 15 may 2009 @ 09:15
the first is safety.
our knives regularly enough, you’ve just motivated me to do something about it.
then your knife wasn’t sharp enough.)
why is it so important to have sharp knives?
pointing straight downwards.
as a result, you lose flavour, and the appearance  isn’t helped either.
it takes a lot more effort to cut food using a blunt knife than it does with a sharp one.
once a week will probably be enough in most cases, though you may want to do it more frequently than that for the knives you use most often, andvice versa.
i know it  looks impressive but i won’t be starting to do the brandishing thing any  time soon.
a few hone truths 3 may 2009 | category basic concepts, knife skills,  knives | 6 comments » keeping your kitchen knives sharp is one of those jobs where a little bit  of effort every now and again saves a lot of trouble in the long run.
i know some people can do very well with the brandishing action, but somehow i never quite mastered the knack.
i am a quick learner and only cut myself once in my early days, not using the steel but testing the blade the wrong way after honing it.
sharp knives cut easily through whatever it is  you’re trying to cut.
they’ve got a vast range of honing and sharpening tools for kitchen knives, ranging from less than a tenner to well over a hundred pounds – just click on the banner below to find out more!
but i won’t be starting to do the brandishing thing any time soon.
but it’s not recommended and  it’s quite an easy way to give yourself a nasty cut if you’re not  careful.
comment by not delia | 30 october 2009 @ 11:12 lol!
use a steel made of steel, with a medium or fine grooved surface; the longer the better.