there's also less choice when it comes to ceramic knives and it's essential  that you know what you can do with one and how to care for them.
steel kitchen knives vs ceramic knives - understanding the differences read zx black ceramic knives - review steel specialty
hardened steel blades are desired for strength and durability.
suggested reading related articles - what's a partoku knife? - top seafood tools - poultry lifters - turkey tools - silvermark herb snips - cutlery knives - splurge or save on cutlery knives - forever sharp knives - forever sharp 8-pc knife set review - super slicing with a santoku knife - calphalon katana series japanese steel 9"
- about.com - home & garden - housewares / appliances housewares / appliances search free housewares / appliances newsletter!
a part of the new york times company.
steel specialty knives: - compare prices of ceramic knives - what's a ceramic knife?
stainless steel handles are more durable but can feel cold in the hand and can become slippery when wet.
- definition of a santoku knife - splurge or save on flatware?
knife blades will retain their edge longer  when safely stored.
by category - knives - cutting boards - cutlery - tableware - cookware - large appliances - small appliances - air, water & recycling - brands, mfrs & retailers - canning & home preserving - consumer awareness - cookware - cooling & heating - gifts & hosting - glossary - essential home products - kitchen & tableware - laundry & fabric care - store, clean & organize - vacuum & floor care housewares / appliances - about.com - home & garden - housewares / appliances - kitchen & tableware - cutlery & knives - cutlery knives - how to buy cutlery knives - most popular - latest articles - rss - advertise on about.com - our story - news & events - work at about - sitemap - all topics - reprints - help - write for about - user agreement - ethics policy - patent info.
since quality construction can  increase the price considerably, be budget-wise when shopping for these  essentials; you can always upgrade later.
tableware cookware whether you're shopping for cutlery knives  for the first time or choosing to upgrade your current set, these buying tips  will give you an idea of what to look for in a knife and will hopefully help  make your purchase a satisfactory one.
when buying knives, take time to handle them to ensure a good fit in your hand which is crucial to safe handling.
what a knife steel is cutting board basics compare prices of sharpeners safe knife storage
your first set of knives best knife for slicing bread read knife reviews specialty knives ceramic knives: ceramic knives can  also be considered specialty knives simply because of their different nature,  since their use and care differs from the traditional steel kitchen knives.
knife blades will retain their edge longer when safely stored.
a combination of stainless and non-slip materials is ideal for comfort and function.
single knife vs a knife set there are often savings to be had buying a  knife set, rather than buying singles.
sign up - housewares / appliances - appliances - house essentials - cooling & heating discuss in my forum before you before you buy kitchen knives - kitchen knife buying tips by mariette mifflin, about.com guide see more about: - knives - cutting boards - cutlery - tableware - cookware
while you can place sharp knives directly in a  drawer with other utensils, doing so creates a hazard with a high risk of  injury.
stainless steel handles are more  durable but can feel cold in the hand and can become slippery when wet.
- how to store knives safely - henckels block - safe knife storage - knife safety video more about knife careknife care tips: - always carefully hand wash sharp knives and dry completely - protect knife tips from dings and breaks - use only as intended - never use a knife to open a can, remove staples or other uses - store safely - keep out of reach of small children - serrated knives may/may not be sharpened - follow manufacturer's recommendations.
this strategy gives you all the essentials initially with upgrades to follow.
though it requires a little practice, sharpening a blade with a knife steel is fairly easy and will restore the edge.
- your first set of knives - best knife for slicing bread - read knife reviews specialty knives ceramic knives: ceramic knives can also be considered specialty knives simply because of their different nature, since their use and care differs from the traditional steel kitchen knives.
afull tang blade extends from the tip of the blade to the  end of the handle making the knife stronger.
- compare prices of knives - compare prices of knife block sets - compare prices of santoku knives essentials knivesto be able to pare, cut, slice and dice, you need the basic knife essentials which include: - two sizes of paring knives - to core fruit, peel and slice vegetables and other tasks - a utility knife around 6" long - for slicing meat and vegetables, plus various chopping needs, usually with a non-serrated blade edge - a serrated utility knife - handy for slicing tomatoes - a bread knife - long serrated blade for slicing bread and buns - a chef's knife - has a long sharp blade for slicing meats, dicing, chopping.
since quality construction can increase the price considerably, be budget-wise when shopping for these essentials; you can always upgrade later.
they're also very durable, while wooden handles though preferred, require more  care to keep them from drying and cracking.
some opt for a budget set and then add a professional quality knife or set as the budget allows.
and when the handle is attached to the full tang blade by three or more rivets, the knife is considered very durable.
- a point defined - definition of a knife bevel - splurge or save on knives knife handle constructioncomposite or resin handles are often the cheapest and easiest to care for as they can be placed in the dishwasher.
knives: a bread knife - has a long serrated blade for clean, even bread slices or  for slicing buns.
in order to keep knives in top condition, you need a  knife sharpener, a knife steel or sharpening stone.
the safest way to store knives is either in a knife block, on a knife  magnetic strip, in shields or guards, stored in their presentation boxes or in  a specially designed knife holder.
compare prices of ceramic knives what's a ceramic knife?
just handle it - a look at knife handles definition of knife bolster knife accessories
though it requires a little  practice, sharpening a blade with a knife steel is fairly easy and will restore  the edge.
- just handle it - a look at knife handles - definition of knife bolster knife accessoriesin order to keep knives in top condition, you need a knife sharpener, a knife steel or sharpening stone.
- privacy policy - your ad choices ©2012 about.com.
this  strategy gives you all the essentials initially with upgrades to follow.
to keep the blades from pitting/staining, always dry knives  completely before storing.
whether you're shopping for cutlery knives for the first time or choosing to upgrade your current set, these buying tips will give you an idea of what to look for in a knife and will hopefully help make your purchase a satisfactory one.
a set often includes a knife steel and handy safe storage - accessories that can add up.
how to store knives safely henckels block - safe knife storage knife safety video
a set often includes a knife steel and  handy safe storage - accessories that can add up.
specialty knives such as a santoku or cheese knife, are not usually included in a knife set and must be purchased separately.
a point defined definition of a knife bevel splurge or save on knives knife handle construction composite or resin handles are often the  cheapest and easiest to care for as they can be placed in the dishwasher.
single knife vs a knife setthere are often savings to be had buying a knife set, rather than buying singles.
they're also very durable, while wooden handles though preferred, require more care to keep them from drying and cracking.
- steel kitchen knives vs ceramic knives - understanding the differences - read zx black ceramic knives - review - a bread knife - has a long serrated blade for clean, even bread slices or for slicing buns.
bread knife - review - how to use a kitchen knife - lessons about using a knife - kitchen safety k... mariette mifflin housewares / appliances guide - sign up for my newsletter related searches santoku knives serrated blade knife block sets flexible blade paring knives blade edge explore housewares / appliances must reads most popular - valentine's day 2012 tips & gifts - the best appliance every time - save energy; save money - how to set the table - humidifiers - faq's see more about: - type of humidifier - before you buy a humidifier - top-loading washing machine vs. front-loading: which is bett… - super simple smoothie recipe - caring for your he washer
compare prices of knives compare prices of knife block sets compare prices of santoku knives essentials knives to be able to pare, cut, slice and dice, you need  the basic knife essentials which include: two sizes of paring knives - to core fruit, peel and slice vegetables and  other tasks a utility knife around 6" long - for slicing meat and vegetables,  plus various chopping needs, usually with a non-serrated blade edge a serrated utility knife - handy for slicing tomatoes a bread knife - long serrated blade for slicing bread and buns a chef's knife - has a long sharp blade for slicing meats, dicing,  chopping.
some opt for a budget set and  then add a professional quality knife or set as the budget allows.
hardened steel blades  are desired for strength and durability.
- steak knives - sold as a set, these serrated knives easily slice through steak and other tough cuts of meat - safe slicing with a santoku - top pick of steak knives - what's a partoku knife blade constructionknife construction can impact handling as well as durability.
specialty knives such as a santoku or cheese knife, are not usually included in  a knife set and must be purchased separately.
while you may not notice a difference between a stamped or forged blade, a forged blade is sharper and quality-constructed.
if you must use a dishwasher, place knife points down to avoid injury - knives with wooden handles should not be washed in a dishwasher - compare prices of knife storage - simple, basic knife sharpening - knife sharpening video related guide picks - kitchen knife storage - how to store knives safely - cutlery & knives - a resource on cutlery & knives - what's a ceramic knife?
afull tang blade extends from the tip of the blade to the end of the handle making the knife stronger.
a well defined bolster helps balance the knife.
while you may not notice a difference between a stamped or forged  blade, a forged blade is sharper and quality-constructed.
while some would consider a knife bread an essential, others choose to forgo this knife entirely - a santoku - a versatile knife for chopping, slicing, cutting - a boning or fillet knife - has a flexible blade to remove meat from bone, slice tomatoes, or fillet fish - a cheese knife - a short wide knife with a cut pattern in the blade, that makes it easy to release the cheese when slicing.
while some would consider a knife bread an essential, others  choose to forgo this knife entirely a santoku - a versatile knife for chopping, slicing, cutting a boning or fillet knife - has a flexible blade to remove meat from bone,  slice tomatoes, or fillet fish a cheese knife - a short wide knife with a cut pattern in the blade, that  makes it easy to release the cheese when slicing.
the safest way to store knives is either in a knife block, on a knife magnetic strip, in shields or guards, stored in their presentation boxes or in a specially designed knife holder.
steak knives - sold as a set, these serrated knives easily slice through  steak and other tough cuts of meat safe slicing with a santoku top pick of steak knives what's a partoku knife blade construction knife construction can impact handling as  well as durability.
to keep the blades from pitting/staining, always dry knives completely before storing.
a  combination of stainless and non-slip materials is ideal for comfort and  function.
- what a knife steel is - cutting board basics - compare prices of sharpeners safe knife storagewhile you can place sharp knives directly in a drawer with other utensils, doing so creates a hazard with a high risk of injury.
when buying knives,  take time to handle them to ensure a good fit in your hand which is crucial to  safe handling.
and when the handle is attached to  the full tang blade by three or more rivets, the knife is considered very  durable.
there's also less choice when it comes to ceramic knives and it's essential that you know what you can do with one and how to care for them.