sponsored post from red daisy studio posted by the funky monkey at 6:30 pm 114 comments email this blogthis!
the spathiphyllum is a natural air purifier and does well indoors even in areas with little light.
like custom crystal couture on facebook here and leave your name tell me what grade you would choose make any purchase from custom crystal couture for an extra 10 entries  (purchase will be verified with the company)
the zipper also provides the option to give a toddler uninhibited freedom of movement, while still keeping them safely covered through the night.
this handmade  sleeping bag is designed to grow with your child.
what great glasses to use for  your next party.
congratulations to the lucky winner - me  as mom #77!
but  dinosaurs is one awesome company.
our balinese cat, sophia - what a sweetie and super, super smart!
players take  turns matching fish by color and direction.
“i wrote this review while participating in a blog tour by mom central consulting on behalf of dannon and received a coupon and gift card to thank me for taking the time to participate.”
it is the coziest blanket…perfect for those middle of the night feedings.
one lucky reader will win their very own ringling classic card set from discovery bay games!
if not completed,  your additional entries will be disqualified.
a grateful doula recently sent over the  following praise for allyzabba’s unique creations: “you’ve got this one right.
i would love to meet you!
i just  love slipping into a comfy pair flats - so cute and feminine.
funky monkey at 12:26 pm 94 comments email this blogthis!
posted by the funky monkey at 12:02 pm 0 comments email this blogthis!
posted by the funky monkey at 8:58 am 2 comments email this blogthis!
this handmade sleeping bag is designed to grow with your child.
there are so many options to choose from - font, dangles, chain, etc.
i love the look of their plush and adorable blankets!
the majority of hand sanitizers currently on shelves use alcohol to disinfect hands
share to twitter share to facebook labels: dad, giveaway, holiday, kids, mom, personalized gorton's seafood: seafood bowl giveaway
designed specifically to replicate the texture of a  mother’s womb, our soft, silky blankets are created for babies, newborns  and children of all ages.
if you wear aus 12 - uk/usa 36 bra, you need a aus 12 - uk/usa 36 corset.
**the  winner will be announced on march 3rd.
the pendant measures  approximately 1/2" square.
what a wonderful father's  day gift this would make this year!
i have to say, i'm in love with this simple dots set.
- the funky monkey is now on facebook!
classy chocolate for the plush fabric side and a choco-dot pattern or  classy aloha print in your choice of colors for the silky satin backing.
- make any purchase from orabella for 10 extra entries (purchase will be verified with the company) - follow orabella lingerie on twitter here and leave your name - like orabella lingerie on facebook here and leave your name - email three or more people about this giveaway and cc me at susannahbananaatlivedotcom **be sure to check out my "current giveaways" list on the right hand side of my blog.
in the limelight current giveaways taryn reed - 5/1 zerowater - 5/2 designs by lolita - 5/3 toy state - 5/4 olasonic - 5/5 core bamboo - 5/7 saige nicole's - 5/7 mochi things - 5/8 dale & thomas popcorn - 5/8 featured companies amazing sponsors exclusive discount codes monday, february 28, 2011 franklincovey products: organize your life from friends and family, i always hear nothing but fantastic comments aboutfranklincovey products .
how to play: fish stix is a visual strategy game.
be sure to leave your email address so i can contact you if you're  the lucky winner.
if heaven were a shoe, it would look something like this.
you can findveripur hand  sanitizer moisturizer exclusively in walgreens.
red envelope is a beautiful company that offers such a wide variety of items.
first prize: fifty will win free groceries for a month valued at $550.
just enter your upc code from any dannon product to see if you are the winner!
this is definitely the place to find unique gifts.
with the unique adjustable snap design over the shoulders and under the arms, the babysnapsack™ is a one-size-fits-all from infancy into the toddler years.
i use silky blankets with my  client’s children and once the kids see the blanket they start getting  sleepy.
- subscribe to my blog via email - be sure to leave your email address in your comment - subscribe to my blog via rss feed/reader - like the funky monkey on facebook here and leave your name - follow the funky monkey on twitter here and leave your name - tweet about this giveaway and be sure to leave the link in your comment (qualifies as one extra entry per day) - post the link to this giveaway (facebook, blog, twitter etc.) and leave the link in your comment (one entry per site) - follow proflowers on twitter here and leave your name - like proflowers on facebook here and leave your name - email three or more people about this giveaway and cc me at susannahbananaatlivedotcom **be sure to check out my "current giveaways" list on the right hand side of my blog.
i was impressed  with this solid sugar maple board right out of the box.
it held our lunches and  outdoor gear.
their 1st grade rocks tote  bag looks fantastic.
- subscribe to my blog via email - be sure to leave your email address in your comment - subscribe to my blog via rss feed/reader - like the funky monkey on facebook here and leave your name - follow the funky monkey on twitter here and leave your name - tweet about this giveaway and be sure to leave the link in your comment (qualifies as one extra entry per day) - post the link to this giveaway (facebook, blog, twitter etc.) and leave the link in your comment (one entry per site) - like red daisy studio on facebook here and leave your name - tell me how you would personalize your necklace if you won - make any purchase from red daisy studio for an extra 10 entries - email three or more people about this giveaway and cc me at susannahbananaatlivedotcom **be sure to check out my "current giveaways" list on the right hand side of my blog.
**the winner will be announced  on february 19th.
posted by the funky monkey at 11:56 am 1 comments email this blogthis!
the second company, kids jewelry rocks, features the sweetest accessories for girls.
you may also take 10% off your order from their etsy shop with the discount code: crystal mandatory entry: visit custom crystal couture and tell me one other item you love.
csn stores has over 200 online stores where you can find anything you need whether it beswingsets, fitness equipment, or even cute cookware!
after you have completed the mandatory entry above, you may do any of  the additional entry options below for more ways to win.
the majority of hand sanitizers currently on shelves  use alcohol to disinfect hands but they do not continue to protect hands after  application.
i can't wait to give them their sweet gifts this year.
it's a great way to stay connected as a family and have a little fun, too!
congratulations to the lucky winner - katklaw777 #114!
- happy easter - papers & plants: personalized bowl of your choice... - kit-kat: the original kit-cat clock {rafflecopter... - ▼ 2011 (480) - ▼ february (34) - franklincovey products: organize your life - 6 things i'm loving today - toodledoo designs: fabric covered letter of your ... - corso como: ballasox stretch flat shoes giveaway - social goodies: help eliminate educational inequa... - take 20% off at red daisy studio - kids t-shirts rock & kids jewelry rocks: two very... - lone pine designs: babysnapsack - baby sleeping b... - peaceable kingdom: 4 classic card games for moder... - simply perfect decor: the cutest handmade wooden ... - chalk talk glass: unique chalkboard wine glasses - red envelope: $50 gift certificate giveaway - shenzen knives: amazing ceramic chef knife - nothing
congratulations to the lucky winner -  kimberly #20!
we received their delicious flavors to try.
*this giveaway ends on march 1st and is open to  u.s. residents.
share to  twitter share to facebook labels: decor, etsy, handmade, home, mom chalk talk glass: unique chalkboard wine glasses i've never seen a  chalkboard on a wine glass before - brilliant!
mix pack glasses - set of 4 not sure which design to go with, no problem.
- subscribe to my blog via email - be sure to leave your email address in your comment - subscribe to my blog via rss feed/reader - like the funky monkey on facebook here and leave your name - follow the funky monkey on twitter here and leave your name - tweet about this giveaway and be sure to leave the link in your comment (qualifies as one extra entry per day) - post the link to this giveaway (facebook, blog, twitter etc.) and leave the link in your comment (one entry per site) - like allyzabba on facebook here and leave your name - tell me who this will be for - make any purchase from allyzabba for an additional 10 entries - email three or more people about this giveaway and cc me at susannahbananaatlivedotcom **be sure to check out my "current giveaways" list on the right hand side of my blog.
share to twitter share to facebook labels:dad, food, mom friday, february 4, 2011 dna energy drink if you're looking for a great tasting energy drink that will give you the right amount of boost in your day, be sure to trydna energy drink.
shenzhen knives is the leading online retailer of ceramic knives and ceramic  knife sets.
travelzabba giveaway - veripur hand sanitizer moisturizer - csn stores: swingsets - winners!
all opinions are my own.
take advantage of this free shipping offer with the discount code:funky sponsored post from kids jewerly rocks and kids t-shirts rock posted bythe funky monkey at 4:38 pm 0 comments email this blogthis!
read a bit more about it: just like you and your valentine, these two sparkling cuties share one ruby red heart.
we're celebrating both the super bowl and the new usda recommendation to eat seafood twice a week by giving away a year of twice-a-week-gorton's seafood package!
above is an example of an unfilled version of the babysnapsack™.
you may also take 10% off with the discount code: funkymonkey mandatory entry: visit toodledoo designs and tell me one other item you love.
generally speaking, these will fit children ages 0 – 3.
sold as singles or in sets of 2, 4,  6, 8 or 12 glasses.
the fact that  i get to be home with my kids - i wouldn't want any other job in the world.
a silky blanket is the one thing i tell new parents that they actually  need for their newborn.”
this measures 16” x 11 ¾” x  1”h. this cutting board is very high in quality and the  personalization really adds that extra special touch.
i  know i'm going to receive lots of positive feedback from friends and family.
when everything has a place, i'm one happy mama.
ideal as a bridal corset or even night out, worn on its own or under a jacket.
complimentary product was provided to me from dna for this review.
non-drying, alcohol free • helps prevent the spread  of germs •
i want them in every color.
it's no wonder the game, fish stix, has won numerous  awards!
sleep sacks are recommended by many experts to reduce the risk of sids, which may be the result of loose crib bedding compromising air flow around a baby's mouth and nose.
each reusable  basket is stuffed full of fantastic dinosaur toys!
**the winner will be announced on march 3rd.
my desk has never looked so good thanks to the brocade letter holder.
each time we took our new  baby out wrapped in this trendy baby blanket we got so many comments on it.
pillow insert is included.
cup size is indifferent, as these will fit from a-d cups.
make any purchase from lone pine designs for an extra 10  entries (purchase will be verified with the company)
my kids had a blast with this flavorful, all-natural snack.
choose up to five names with one in the middle.
sponsored post from orabella lingerie.
don't miss out on  this great deal.
take advantage of this free shipping offer with the  discount code:funky sponsored post from kids jewerly rocks and kids t-shirts rock posted bythe funky monkey  at 4:38 pm 0 comments email this blogthis!
each roll provides 1 serving of fruit with no added sugar or artifical additives.
the next variety was milk chocolate with bananas and peanuts.
my family - every single day i'm in  awe with them 2.
photos by sunday grant photography mandatory entry: visit lone pine designs and tell me the  sleep sack you love.
this simple, modern necklace looks great with a snapshot of her best friend, a favorite piece of artwork or a family portrait.
these dinosaur themed gift baskets are  wonderful for birthdays, easter, christmas and anytime you want to give one  really cool gift.
savings is per basket ordered, regardless of size.
share to twitter share to  facebook labels: dad, entertainment, kitchen, mom, party, personalized red envelope: $50 gift certificate giveaway this giveaway  is now closed.
post the link to this giveaway (facebook, blog, twitter etc.) and leave  the link in your comment (one entry per site) like toodledoo designs on facebook here and leave your name follow toodledoo designs on their blog here and leave your name
we all need to step back from our computers, phones, etc. and write handwritten notes!
sold as singles or in sets of 2, 4, 6, 8 or 12 glasses.
34″ x 28″ and the smaller travelzabba is 16″ x 14″ and is a perfect lovey for the car seat or stroller.
posted bythe funky monkey at 8:39 am 78 comments email this blogthis!
fun spring clothes and accessories for k... - ulysses press: for my children - a mother's journ... - lifeguard press: lilly pulitzer - mally beauty: lightwand eye brightener - radioshack: nook color ereader - minted: children's stationery - orb factory: any product of your choice {raffleco... - tea forte: kati tea brewing system - winners!
we ate them up so fast here in my home.
you may also take 15% off your order with the coupon code: deal15 mandatory entry: visit proflowers and tell me how you would spend your $50.
keep your loved ones close with their bpj - simplicity square photo necklace - double sided.
right now you can save $4.00 on any basket with the discount code: bananas
you get to choose your grade.
matching boy short panties or brazilian cut panties available.
it's now his favorite chocolate.
share to twitter share to facebook labels:food, kids metromint: 100% pure water.
congratulations to the lucky winner -
it's just so pretty and classic.
congratulations to the lucky winner -  vickec #33!
travelzabba giveaway
stay sharper longer: harder than steel, and will hold edge  longer than a steel blade • will not rust and is easy to clean:  resistant to acids, germs and oils • will not affect the taste of or  brown food •
there are also built-in carrying handles underneath the board which  are very comfortable to use.
click "comments" below this posting and leave a message as your entry.
mix and  match prints or keep them all the same.
this is  definitely the place to find unique gifts.
moreover, these alcohol-based sanitizers dry the  skin leaving it even more susceptible to germs.
you can  check out theiretsy shop and their website.
to jump-start your healthy lifestyle even more, we're giving you the chance to win free groceries for a week, month, or year!
click "comments" below this posting and leave  a message as your entry.
tell me one other game you would love to try
share to twitter  share to facebook labels: baby, etsy, giveaway, toddler thursday, february 17, 2011 peaceable kingdom: 4 classic card games for modern kids giveaway
definitely my  favorite pair of shoes so far this year.
posted by the funky monkey at 4:02 pm 351 comments email
share to twitter share to facebook labels: giveaway, intimates, mom personal creations: $50 gift certificate giveaway
if heaven were a shoe, it would look something like  this.
franklincovey products offers many  solutions to help make your life easier.
you know you want a bunch of them like me.
the custom monogram throw pillow sham is really cute, too.
experience 139 years of circus tradition, excitement and wonder, with four favorite, classic games – rummy, old maid, go fish, and crazy 8s.
but dinosaurs: dinosaur themed gift baskets nothing
age protecting cosmetics & skincare... - toy state: cat job site machine of your choice {r... - rifle paper co.:
share to twitter share to facebook labels: cool stuff, dad, giveaway, mom tuesday, february 1, 2011 choccreate: gift certificate giveaway
each one counts as one separate entry.
the ultimate office plant from proflowers took my breath away.
the moat around the edges is another fantastic feature.
summer is just around the corner!
what great glasses to use for your next party.
all color  variations of the allyzabba are offered in our traditional multi-colored retro  dot backing or our new multicolored “choco-dot” backing.
complimentary product was  provided to me fromcorso como for this review.
the width will depend on the letter.
it's so simple, classy and fun all at the same time.
posted by the funky monkey at 12:21 pm 0 comments email this blogthis!
discovery bay games sent over their ringling classic card set for me to review.
keep your loved ones close with their  bpj - simplicity square photo necklace - double sided.
i can't wait to see the lovely white flowers soon!
i cannot deny my love for the fabric letters from fun & hip etsy shop,tootledoo designs.
i wish i had known about this company when my kids were babies.
moxie couture has added a sweet pink chiffon embellishment to  the waist.
i was sent some custom blocks that spelled out the word love.
i was  very happy to try out veripur's hand sanitizer moisturizer.
they turned out adorable.
- subscribe to my blog via email - be sure to leave your email address in your comment - subscribe to my blog via rss feed/reader - like the funky monkey on facebook here and leave your name - follow the funky monkey on twitter here and leave your name - tweet about this giveaway and be sure to leave the link in your comment (qualifies as one extra entry per day) - post the link to this giveaway (facebook, blog, twitter etc.) and leave the link in your comment (one entry per site) - like custom crystal couture on facebook here and leave your name - tell me what grade you would choose - make any purchase from custom crystal couture for an extra 10 entries (purchase will be verified with the company) - email three or more people about this giveaway and cc me at susannahbananaatlivedotcom **be sure to check out my "current giveaways" list on the right hand side of my blog.
you can get three of these for only $50.
share to twitter share to facebook labels: decor, etsy, handmade, home, mom chalk talk glass: unique chalkboard wine glasses i've never seen a chalkboard on a wine glass before - brilliant!
share to twitter share to facebook labels: education, entertainment, games, giveaway, kids tuesday, february 15, 2011 simply perfect decor: the cutest handmade wooden blocks cute, cute  and cuter...that's what i think of when theetsy shop simply perfect decor comes  to mind.
if you know someone who adores dinosaurs, this is the place to shop!
yet feminine enough that she'll love wearing it.
i go to take classes 3-5 days per week.
by popular demand we introduce:  themegazabba.
- subscribe to my blog via email - be sure to leave your email address in your comment - subscribe to my blog via rss feed/reader - like the funky monkey on facebook here and leave your name - follow the funky monkey on twitter here and leave your name - tweet about this giveaway and be sure to leave the link in your comment (qualifies as one extra entry per day) - post the link to this giveaway (facebook, blog, twitter etc.) and leave the link in your comment (one entry per site) - like red envelope on facebook here and leave your name - follow red envelope on twitter here and leave your name - email three or more people about this giveaway and cc me at susannahbananaatlivedotcom **be sure to check out my "current giveaways" list on the right hand side of my blog.
features: ideal for soccer moms, commuters, and vacationers big enough to hold three grocery bags internal divider prevents groceries from rolling sturdy handles for easy lifting mesh side pockets for smaller items bottom grip strips hold tote securely in place folds for easy storage measures 23.5″ w × 12.5″ h × 12″ d head on over to franklincovey products to start shopping for the amazing  products you see above.
complimentary product was provided to me from choccreate for this review.
share to twitter share to facebook labels: baby, giveaway, kids, toddler veripur hand sanitizer moisturizer i'm a hand sanitizing freak.
right now you can take 10% off your  order with the discount code:fan 10 head on over to chalk talk glass to start shopping!
you can read more about dna here .
the festive is one of two styles fromcorso como’s latest “ ballasox” line, which takes the flat to a new level of blissful comfort with the introduction of a soft, form-fitting sock sewn into the lining of a butter skin leather upper and cushy rubber sole.
you can get this bag customized with any grade,  including preschool and kindergarten!
**the winner will be announced on february 10th.
clickhere to purchase.
it  is the coziest blanket…perfect for those middle of the night feedings.
you may also take 10% off with the discount code: funkymonkey mandatory entry: visit  toodledoo designs and tell me one other item you love.
be sure to leave your email address
i just love slipping into a comfy pair flats - so cute and feminine.
you  can also findpint glasses from this company, too!
each babysnapsack™ is equipped with a two-way zipper, which extends down the side and across the bottom for easy diaper changing and adjustable ventilation.
this will catch juices and prevent spilling.
share to twitter share to facebook labels: dad, food, giveaway, mom proflowers: $50 gift certificate giveaway
one lucky reader will win their very own tote bag.
posted by the funky monkey at 10:15 am 0 comments email this blogthis!
enjoy your day of love!
the allyzabba way at allyzabba, we craft each  reversible baby blanket with both a silky and plush fabric to provide comfort  and care to each child.
you may also take 10% off your order with the coupon code: 10offpc mandatory entry: visit personal creations and tell me how you would spend your $50.
i received the tan and it looks  fantastic.
moxie couture has added a sweet pink chiffon embellishment to the waist.
*the winner will be announced on february 23rd.
congratulations to the lucky winner - littleamberfate #15!
my desk has never looked so good thanks to the  brocade letter holder.
moxie couture - rhinestone & chiffon rockstar tshirt
the first,kids t-shirts rock, offers the cutest shirts for  boys and girls.
our balinese cat, sophia -  what a sweetie and super, super smart!
he comes up with the mostscrumptious bbq ever!
share to twitter share to facebook labels: giveaway, jewelry, mom, personalized allyzabba:
moreover, these alcohol-based sanitizers dry the skin leaving it even more susceptible to germs.
share to twitter share to facebook sunday, february 13, 2011 custom crystal couture:
all three were fantastic.
this sanitizer is great to use during the cold and flu season.
it's all-natural with nothing artificial.
**the winner will be announced on february 19th.
complimentary product was provided to me from  simply perfect decor for this review.
i chose the  steakhouse design and it turned out amazing.
i received them ingold and they're fantastic.
complimentary product was provided to me from franklin covey for  this review.
*this giveaway ends on february 9th and is open to u.s. residents.
check out all of  their adorable blocks for holidays, weddings and much, much more.
we laser engrave the base of the figurine with any message on 1 line, up to 21 characters.
there were three designs  for me to choose from - big game bar, sports bar and steakhouse.
mandatory entry: visit allyzabba and tell me one blanket you love.
share to twitter share to facebook labels: dad, home, mom,  office, organization, storage, travel 6 things i'm loving today 1.
what teacher wouldn't love this?!?
designed specifically to replicate the texture of a mother’s womb, our soft, silky blankets are created for babies, newborns and children of all ages.
*this giveaway ends on february 24th and is  open to u.s. residents.
posted by the funky monkey  at 11:56 am 1  comments email this blogthis!
anything else that feels this good tends to be illegal.
moxie couture -  rhinestone & chiffon rockstar tshirt
this deluxe babysnapsack™, the snuggle down (shown above), is filled with hypoallergenic european white goose down for luxurious year-round comfort – perfect for both camping and every day use.
real, fresh and pesticide-free mint grown in washington state's yakima valley is added to purified water giving you a taste like nothing you've ever experienced.
my family lovesstretch island fruit co. stretchy fruit fun - that's what i think of when it comes tofruitabu.
they are simply gorgeous!
posted by the funky monkey  at 5:26 pm  0 comments email this blogthis!
posted by the funky monkey at 9:46 am 0 comments email this blogthis!
handmade using a low fire clay  that is durable enough to withstand the trials and tribulations of a young  girl.
mandatory entry: visit red daisy studio and tell me one other item you love.
**the winner will be announced on february 25th.
she's a little bit girly and  little bit rock star...this tee says it all!
veripur™ is alcohol free  and with the added hydrating ingredients including avocado, jojoba and grape  seed oil, veripur™ also performs double duty as a daily moisturizer.
photos by sunday grant photography mandatory entry: visit lone pine designs and tell me the sleep sack you love.
sponsored post from toodledoo designs posted by the funky monkey at 11:40 am 116 comments email this blogthis!
complimentary product was provided to me from peaceable kingdom for this review.
i know i'm going to receive lots of positive feedback from friends and family.
posted by the funky monkey  at 11:00 am 266 comments email
share to twitter share to facebook labels: dad, home, mom, office, organization, storage, travel 6 things i'm loving today 1.
this can hang either as a square or a diamond.
as always, machine washable.
measures 7.5″ w × 6″ h × 3.25″
click here to find out where to buy.
sponsored post from lone pine designs posted by the funky monkey at 4:05 pm 82 comments email this blogthis!
the first player  to move all tokens to 10 wins!
however, veripur's sanitizer leaves my hands feeling nice, moisturized and fragrance-free.
and yes, it really does taste like yummy chocolate!
as valentine's day approaches, how many of you are going to be purchasing some sexy lingerie?
tell me who these cards will be for follow peaceable kingdom on facebook here and leave your name email three or more people about this giveaway and cc me at  susannahbananaatlivedotcom **be sure to check out my "current giveaways" list on the right  hand side of my blog.. *
toy 100 best products of 2009
one lucky reader will win a $50 personal creations gift certificate!
lone pine designs creates a very unique product that i recently came across - the babysnapsack.
i can't take my eyes off of them.
most sleep sacks are sized 0-3 months, 3-6 months, 6-9 months etc.
however, veripur's sanitizer leaves my hands  feeling nice, moisturized and fragrance-free.
but they do not continue to protect hands after application.
posted by the funky monkey at 1:18 pm 205 comments email this blogthis!
*this giveaway ends on february 22nd and is  open to u.s. residents.
i love that it can be clean all the time.
chalk  wipes off easily with a damp cloth.
and i mean every color - they offer so many!!!
*this giveaway ends on february 10th and is open to u.s. residents.
tell me who this will be for make any purchase from allyzabba for an additional 10 entries email three or more people about this giveaway and cc me at  susannahbananaatlivedotcom **be sure to check out my "current giveaways" list on the right  hand side of my blog.
you can put together your own mix pack of chalk talk glasses.
the babysnapsack™ is available in a variety of fabrics and weights.
be sure to check out theirday planners, bags & cases ,binders & cases and so much more.
posted by the funky monkey at 4:58 pm 0 comments email
enter your upc codehere to see if you're a big winner in the dannon small steps sweepstakes!
this blog loading... five star reviews maui jim rockport keds yakima sur la table brooks the north face aeropostale pediped categories - about me (27) - accessories (341) - announcements (23) - appliances (9) - art (16) - awards (1) - baby (406) - bags (65) - bath (31) - beauty (121) - bedding (3) - books (69) - camera (5) - charity (17) - cleaning (30) - clothing (335) - computer (6) - cooking (59) - cool stuff (37) - coupons (8) - crafts (22) - cycling (17) - dad (504) - dad's point of view (38) - decor (123) - disclaimer (1) - discount codes (1) - dvds (13) - ebay (1) - education (74) - electronics (21) - emergency (8) - entertainment (40) - etsy (158) - eyewear (6) - fitness (15) - floral (4) - food (278) - freebies (2) - furniture (19) - games (24) - garden (4) - giveaway (907) - got giveaways (5) - grandparents (13) - green (137) - handbags (3) - handmade (184) - health (75) - holiday (83) - home (306) - intimates (12) - jewelry (139) - kids (893) - kitchen (34) - maternity (16) - mom (1090) - music (13) - my top boutique picks (79) - office (31) - organization (49) - outdoor (110) - party (12) - personalized (170) - pets (43) - photography (25) - purses (27) - recipes (4) - relaxation (2) - safety (26) - seasonal (100) - shoes (84) - sports (72) - stationery (69) - storage (8) - teacher gifts (7) - technology (18) - toddler (629) - tools (10) - toys (155) - travel (83) - tuesday's tot (14) - videos (4) - web deals (34) - wedding (9) - winners (170) - workout (41) blog archive - ► 2012 (213) - ► may (2) - enter the aerosoles ‘shoesanity’ sweepstakes!
the moat around the  edges is another fantastic feature.
sleep sacks are recommended by many experts to reduce the risk of sids,  which may be the result of loose crib bedding compromising air flow around a  baby's mouth and nose.
- subscribe to my blog via email - be sure to leave your email address in your comment - subscribe to my blog via rss feed/reader - like the funky monkey on facebook here and leave your name - follow the funky monkey on twitter here and leave your name - tweet about this giveaway and be sure to leave the link in your comment (qualifies as one extra entry per day) - post the link to this giveaway (facebook, blog, twitter etc.) and leave the link in your comment (one entry per site) - follow choccreate on twitter here and leave your name - like choccreate on facebook here and leave your name - email three or more people about this giveaway and cc me at susannahbananaatlivedotcom **be sure to check out my "current giveaways" list on the right hand side of my blog.
if  not completed, your additional entries will be disqualified.
i  loved seeing their wonderful and fun variety.
it's no wonder the game, fish stix, has won numerous awards!
this is a double sided pendant so you can send two photos, or choose from one of our patterns for the reverse.
i am in love with the ballasox stretch flats from corso como.
i was  very intrigued with its creation.
most hand sanitizers  leave my hands dry and smelly.
post the link to this giveaway (facebook, blog, twitter etc.) and leave  the link in your comment (one entry per site)
simply perfect decor offers some really amazing designs.
red envelope would like to offer one lucky reader a $50 gift certificate!
the entire family gets in on the action and it truly is a lot of fun.
posted by the funky monkey  at 9:25 pm 0 comments email
posted by the funky monkey at 11:26 am 0 comments email this blogthis!
*this giveaway ends on february 20th and is  open to u.s. residents.
starbucks coffee posted by the funky monkey  at 7:27 am 2 comments  email
i use silky blankets with my client’s children and once the kids see the blanket they start getting sleepy.
the large allyzabba is approx.
share to twitter share to facebook labels: kids, outdoor, seasonal thursday, february 10, 2011 winners!
each strip provides a half serving of fruit.
**be  sure to leave a separate comment for each entry.
you have your choice of three different containers: - large white pot - tapered wooden pot -
tee spells out  "rock star" in clear glass stones, which have been hand set to ensure  proper placement.
right now you can save $4.00 on any basket with the discount code: bananas there is no limit.
- subscribe to my blog via email - be sure to leave your email address in your comment - subscribe to my blog via rss feed/reader - like the funky monkey on facebook here and leave your name - follow the funky monkey on twitter here and leave your name - tweet about this giveaway and be sure to leave the link in your comment (qualifies as one extra entry per day) - post the link to this giveaway (facebook, blog, twitter etc.) and leave the link in your comment (one entry per site)
i'm here at home with two sick kiddos.
they even have chocolate mint.
click here to see all of their wonderful varieties.
talk about beautiful.
this one this babysnapsack™ is made with a turquoise fine wale corduroy exterior with  embroidered detailing, and is paired with a soft white flannel cotton lining  and zipper.
it's going to be hard to top this one for him.
clickhere to become a fan of our page and leave a comment while you're at it.
congratulations to the lucky winner - me as mom #77!
check out all of their wonderful games, puzzles, apps and more!
all color variations of the allyzabba are offered in our traditional multi-colored retro dot backing or our new multicolored “choco-dot” backing.
it was carefully placed inside a tall box and the plant was wrapped with care.
all you do is  sign up with your email address to help raise money to "eliminate  educational inequality."
you do not need to have a google account to comment.
mandatory entry: visit peaceable kingdom and tell me one other game you would love to try.
and it's  wonderful to use when bringing home the groceries.
posted by the funky monkey at 9:12 am 2 comments email
congratulations to the lucky winner - rory #4!
complimentary product was provided to me from stretch island fruit co. for this review.
the babysnapsack™ is a one-size-fits-all from infancy into toddlerhood.
posted by the funky monkey  at 9:03 am 0
each babysnapsack™ is  equipped with a two-way zipper, which extends down the side and across the  bottom for easy diaper changing and adjustable ventilation.
this non-drying, alcohol-free hand sanitizer that kills 99.9% of germs on contact and continues to protect your hands for up to four hours after application.
mandatory entry: visit discovery bay games and tell me one other game you would love to try.
i'm always aiming for five!
i never knew a plant could do that!
the entire family gets in on the action and it  truly is a lot of fun.
this  giveaway is now closed.
share to twitter share to facebook labels:  dad, food, kitchen, mom nothing
join theirfan club and win free stuff!
the list goes on and  on!
what a unique piece.
have a great valentine's day!
red daisy studio offers really beautiful personalized jewelry that is modern and hip.
- subscribe to my blog via email - be sure to leave your email address in your comment - subscribe to my blog via rss feed/reader - like the funky monkey on facebook here and leave your name - follow the funky monkey on twitter here and leave your name - tweet about this giveaway and be sure to leave the link in your comment (qualifies as one extra entry per day) - post the link to this giveaway (facebook, blog, twitter etc.) and leave the link in your comment (one entry per site) - like discovery bay games on facebook here and leave your name - tell me who this will be for - email three or more people about this giveaway and cc me at susannahbananaatlivedotcom **be sure to check out my "current giveaways" list on the right hand side of my blog.
you know you want  a bunch of them like me.
one lucky reader will win their 4 classic card games from peaceable kingdom!
one lucky reader will win a fabric covered letter of their choice (a  $20 value)!
this giveaway is now  closed.
sponsored post from lone pine designs posted by the  funky monkey  at 4:05 pm 82 comments email this blogthis!
you can learn more about the babysnapsack™ at www.snuggledownbaby.com.
if no response is received within 2 days, a new winner will be chosen.
mandatory entry: visit peaceable kingdom and tell me one other  game you would love to try.
complimentary product was provided to me from franklin covey for this review.
she's a little bit girly and little bit rock star...this tee says it all!
we have recently taken this out to the park.
complimentary  product was provided to me from peaceable kingdom for this review.
this knife cuts like nothing i've  ever experienced.
it's no wonder they were voted best tasting energy drink 2010.
visit proflowers to see their valentine's day flowers & favorites!
you can also purchase these wonderful snacks on their website.
at least i get to spend my entire day with the two  people who mean the world to me.
**the winner will be announced on march 2nd.
here is what you could win: grand prize: three will win free groceries for a year valued at $7,800!
you may  do so with just your name.
what a unique easter basket this would make!
clickhere to find a store near you.
- 8-ounce bottle this also arrives in their signature pink and blue packaging.
my daughter cannot wait to give this to her teacher at the  end of the school year!
you can get this bag customized with any grade, including preschool and kindergarten!
subscribe to my blog via email - be sure to leave your email address in  your comment subscribe to my blog via rss feed/reader like the funky monkey on facebook here and leave your name follow the funky monkey on twitter here and leave your name tweet about this giveaway and be sure to leave the link in your comment  (qualifies as one extra entry per day)
the snaps and logo are cream.
my husband was very  pleased when he saw his very own personalized cutting board.
it's going to look dynamite.
posted bythe funky monkey at 9:26 pm 0 comments email this blogthis!
share to twitter share to facebook labels: dad, health, kids, mom csn stores: swingsets if you don't shop with csn stores, you should!
if you're one of the bunch that will "wow" your loved one this year, be sure to check out whatorabella lingerie has to offer.
there are so  many options to choose from - font, dangles, chain, etc.
waist is 8 inches smaller than bust.
this is definitely a gift  they won't forget.
read more about lone pine designshere.
share to twitter share to facebook labels: about me toodledoo designs: fabric covered letter of your choice giveaway
the alcohol evaporates quickly after use so your hands are not protected after application.
being organized is something i'm  constantly striving for.
complimentary product was provided to me from metromint for this review.
introducing social goodies, a commerce site dedicated to giving an unprecedented 20% of its revenue to charity.
sponsored post  from red daisy studio posted by the funky monkey  at 6:30 pm 114
they're so nice to receive.
complimentary product was provided to me from simply perfect decor for this review.
that's 104 free gorton's products ~ a $624 value!
choccreate would like to offer one lucky reader a $12 gift certificate!
or how about a cool housewarming gift or a little surprise for  the hostess!
personalized 3 mini discs neckla... - allyzabba:
these small steps really do make a huge difference.
i know i'll be a fan ofcorso como for years to come.
mandatory entry: visit corso como and tell me the color you love.
but dinosaurs to take a look at everything they have to offer.
red daisy studio: personalized 3 mini discs necklace
random.org is used to determine all winners.
please check your junk/spam folder!
34″ x 28″ and the smaller  travelzabba is 16″ x 14″ and is a perfect lovey for the car seat or  stroller.
posted by the funky monkey  at 11:36 am 52 comments  email
one lucky reader will win this dandelion colored babysnapsack™ --  perfect for a girl or boy.
- subscribe to my blog via email - be sure to leave your email address in your comment - subscribe to my blog via rss feed/reader - like the funky monkey on facebook here and leave your name - follow the funky monkey on twitter here and leave your name - tweet about this giveaway and be sure to leave the link in your comment (qualifies as one extra entry per day) - post the link to this giveaway (facebook, blog, twitter etc.) and leave the link in your comment (one entry per site) - like corso como on facebook here and leave your name - follow corso como on twitter here and leave your name - email three or more people about this giveaway and cc me at susannahbananaatlivedotcom **be sure to check out my "current giveaways" list on the right hand side of my blog.
this deluxe babysnapsack™, the snuggle down (shown above), is filled with  hypoallergenic european white goose down for luxurious year-round comfort  – perfect for both camping and every day use.
i think younger kids could  grasp the concept as well.
posted by the funky monkey at 9:25 pm 0 comments email
mandatory entry: visit choccreate and tell me how you would create your chocolate.
*the winner will be announced on february 19th.
i had a really hard timechoosing an item from this company.
click here to see all of the choices you have for customization!
i love the  look of their plush and adorable blankets!
this is a double sided pendant so you  can send two photos, or choose from one of our patterns for the reverse.
don't miss out on this great deal.
keep that in mind ladies and gents!
- dna energy drink - noodle & boo: extra gentle skin care for baby & m... - discovery bay games: ringling classic card set gi... - orabella lingerie: bra of your choice giveaway - personal creations: $50 gift certificate giveaway... - gorton's seafood: seafood bowl giveaway - choccreate: gift certificate giveaway - proflowers: $50 gift certificate giveaway
sponsored post from  toodledoo designs posted by the funky monkey  at 11:40 am 116  comments email this blogthis!
you do not need to have a  google account to comment.
this giveaway is now closed.
pearl, birthstone or crystal dangles are available as well  as design stamps.
congratulations to the lucky winner - elissa #31!
i love the  little design stamps you can add to the discs as well.
perfect for valentine's day or any time of the year.
csn stores has over 200 online stores where you can find anything you  need whether it beswingsets, fitness equipment, or even cute cookware!
•parents' choice 2009 gold award •dr.
with  the unique adjustable snap design over the shoulders and under the arms, the  babysnapsack™ is a one-size-fits-all from infancy into the toddler years.
email three or more people about this giveaway and cc me at  susannahbananaatlivedotcom **be sure to check out my "current giveaways" list on the right  hand side of my blog.
dannon is giving you 4 daily chances to win big!
each card deck is designed with authentic vintage artwork, so fans of all ages can experience the enchanting granddaddy of all circuses straight from their living room.
58″x58″ allyzabba pastel-dot the allyzabba is  our signature pastel-dot blanket that started it all.
you could be the lucky winner!
my husband was in love.
the card set comes in a really cute box to store them in which is a plus.
the allyzabba megazabba is a gigantic squish of soft  you can share with your tiny tot and the rest of the family!
add a new dimension of learning and enthusiasm to these classic card games, while treating your family and friends to the wonder and pageantry of life under the big top!
however, my husband and i love it, too!
the first,kids t-shirts rock, offers the cutest shirts for boys and girls.
- tell me one other game you would love to try - tell me who these cards will be for - follow peaceable kingdom on facebook here and leave your name - email three or more people about this giveaway and cc me at susannahbananaatlivedotcom **be sure to check out my "current giveaways" list on the right hand side of my blog.. *
head on over to a drop of golden sun to check out their gorgeous stationery.
comes  in our signature packaging with your choice of a leather cord or organza ribbon.
each letter measures 12" tall.
share to twitter share to facebook labels: dad, food, giveaway monday, february 14, 2011 shenzen knives: amazing ceramic chef knife
sponsored post from allyzabba posted bythe
we also take our kids to the park so they can get exercise.
the megazabba is made from the same great stuff as our signature blanket but the colors have been upgraded for adults.
that's why we're giving you tips to live a healthy lifestyle, one small step at a time.
these shoes are unbelievably comfortable.
mix pack glasses - set of 4 not sure  which design to go with, no problem.
share to twitter share to facebook labels: cool stuff take 20% off at red daisy studio take 20% off your red daisy studio order!
i bet you can think of much, much more!
one lucky reader will win this dandelion colored babysnapsack™ -- perfect for a girl or boy.
so i can contact you if you're the lucky winner.
- subscribe to my blog via email - be sure to leave your email address in your comment - subscribe to my blog via rss feed/reader - like the funky monkey on facebook here and leave your name - follow the funky monkey on twitter here and leave your name - tweet about this giveaway and be sure to leave the link in your comment (qualifies as one extra entry per day) - post the link to this giveaway (facebook, blog, twitter etc.) and leave the link in your comment (one entry per site) - like toodledoo designs on facebook here and leave your name - follow toodledoo designs on their blog here and leave your name - make any purchase from toodledoo designs for an extra 10 entries
posted by the funky monkey  at 9:46 am 0
these inexpensive bears would be great for your husband, child, friend or family member.
share to twitter share  to facebook labels: kids, party, toys happy valentine's day!
share to twitter share to facebook labels: kids, party, toys happy valentine's day!
check out all of theirpersonalized valentine's day gifts.
share to twitter share to facebook labels: cool stuff take 20% off at red daisy studio take 20% off your red daisy studio  order!
be sure to like metromint on facebook!
one lucky reader will win a travelzabba of their choice!
posted by the funky monkey at 12:30 pm 191 comments email this blogthis!
funky monkey at 3:55 pm 0 comments email this blogthis!
pure & sim... - metromint: 100% pure water.
congratulations to the lucky winner - nicole greene #202!
i had a really hard timechoosing an item from  this company.
it's no wonder their  3-piece knife set received 4.5 out of 5 stars.
give this as your nextbaby shower gift.
take15% off your order with the discount code winter11.
- slap frozen energy: freeze it.
you can also purchase gift certificates from choccreate.
and finally, dark chocolate with candied almonds.
sponsored post from nothing but dinosaurs posted by the funky monkey at 9:25 am 0 comments email this blogthis!
i highly recommend this company for your holiday needs or anytime you want to brighten someone's day.
*this giveaway ends on march 1st and is open to u.s. residents.
helps prevent the spread of germs •
*this giveaway ends on february 18th and is  open to u.s. residents.
complimentary product was provided to me from shenzhen knives for this review.
mine turned  out super fabulous!
if not completed, your additional entries will be disqualified.
kids or no kids, this cargo tote is a must-have.
i've never seen anything like thesterling silver thick square washer.
and it's wonderful to use when bringing home the groceries.
it’s perfect for  throwing on the back of the couch or cuddling up while watching a movie.
favorites include school names, family  names, kids names, initials, sororities...
each glass has a chalkboard area where your guests can write their name with a piece of chalk (included with each purchase).
this one this babysnapsack™ is made with a turquoise fine wale corduroy exterior with embroidered detailing, and is paired with a soft white flannel cotton lining and zipper.
as spring and summer approaches, one thing comes to mind is my husband and his  bbq!
introducing  social goodies, a commerce site dedicated to giving an unprecedented 20% of its  revenue to charity.
right now you can take 20% off your  order with the discount codefunkymonkey20.
- custom crystal couture:
by popular demand we introduce: themegazabba.
i chose the paper and style of thepeace blocks shown in the image above.
the megazabba is made from the same  great stuff as our signature blanket but the colors have been upgraded for  adults.
as  always, machine washable.
i think younger kids could grasp the concept as well.
how wonderful would they look in your home?!?
i was able to prep meals much faster which was a huge plus.
share to twitter share to facebook friday, february 11, 2011
the  rhinestones are so sparkly and it's such a practical, yet super fun gift!
congratulations to the lucky winner - julie #245!
this blanket is huge–nearly 25 square feet of cozy goodness!
head on over to shenzhen  knives to take advantage of this wonderful free gift.
my husband really enjoyed these.
most  sleep sacks are sized 0-3 months, 3-6 months, 6-9 months etc.
handmade using a low fire clay that is durable enough to withstand the trials and tribulations of a young girl.
if you're wondering what you're going to give your teacher this year,  think rhinestone school grade tote bag fromcustom crystal couture.
lightweight: easy and comfortable to use for precision slicing click here to view all of their knives and knife sets.
give 3 sticks, 1 scoreboard, and 6 fish tokens to each player.
share to twitter share to facebook labels: about me wednesday, february 23, 2011 toodledoo designs: fabric covered letter of your choice giveaway
but dinosaurs: dinosaur themed gift baske... - happy valentine's day!
fabric is 7 oz. cream duck fabric.
for every fish matched, a player  moves her fish tokens that number of spaces on her scoreboard.
for every fish matched, a player moves her fish tokens that number of spaces on her scoreboard.
58″x58″ allyzabba pastel-dot the allyzabba is our signature pastel-dot blanket that started it all.
favorites include school names, family names, kids names, initials, sororities...
i've never experienced mint flavored water before.
as spring and summer approaches, one thing comes to mind is my husband and his bbq!
debbym #78 mckenna layne designs - redi2adopt #15 orabella lingerie - vicki s #15 **all winners have been notifed through email.
they can't live  without theirs and are very impressed with the quality and style franklincovey  products is known for.
share to twitter share to facebook labels:baby, bath, kids, toddler discovery bay games: ringling classic card set giveaway
- subscribe to my blog via email - be sure to leave your email address in your comment - subscribe to my blog via rss feed/reader - like the funky monkey on facebook here and leave your name - follow the funky monkey on twitter here and leave your name - tweet about this giveaway and be sure to leave the link in your comment (qualifies as one extra entry per day) - post the link to this giveaway (facebook, blog, twitter etc.) and leave the link in your comment (one entry per site) - like lone pine designs on facebook here and leave your name - make any purchase from lone pine designs for an extra 10 entries (purchase will be verified with the company) - email three or more people about this giveaway and cc me at susannahbananaatlivedotcom **be sure to check out my "current giveaways" list on the right hand side of my blog.
why should babies have all the fun?
read more about the ceramic advantage: ceramic knife blades are  made from zirconium oxide which undergoes high-pressure molding before being  fired.
i know i'll be a fan ofcorso como for  years to come.
complimentary product was provided to me from discovery bay games for this review.
they are so chic and pretty.
share to twitter share to facebook labels: baby, etsy, giveaway, toddler thursday, february 17, 2011 peaceable kingdom: 4 classic card games for modern kids giveaway
the babysnapsack™ eliminates the need to  buy multiple sleep sacks in various sizes for rapidly growing babies.
the pillow pictured above features brown corduroy piping, but you can choose any color you wish.
i chose to use stawberries and mangoes in white chocolate.
one lucky reader will win their 4  classic card games from peaceable kingdom!
the rhinestones are so sparkly and it's such a practical, yet super fun gift!
*this giveaway ends on february 24th and is open to u.s. residents.
the allyzabba megazabba is a gigantic squish of soft you can share with your tiny tot and the rest of the family!
tested and proven effective against 20 commonly found  strains of bacteria and four viruses • convenient size for travel and  to bring anywhere – the home, office, beach, sporting events and gym “i wrote this review while participating in a mom central consulting  blog tour on behalf of veripur hand sanitizer moisturizer.
choose from simple sally, great greats, paws off,  shamrocks, hearts and more.
i love the little design stamps you can add to the discs as well.
tee: $20 gift certificate {rafflecopter g... - balance bar bare & nimble - winners!
the lilies have not bloomed yet, but it still looks so pretty.
to start, players place 1 fish stick in the center of a table where all players can reach it.
this sanitizer is  great to use during the cold and flu season.
the first player to move all tokens to 10 wins!
share  to twitter share to facebook labels: baby, giveaway, kids, toddler veripur hand sanitizer moisturizer i'm a hand sanitizing freak.
tee spells out "rock star" in clear glass stones, which have been hand set to ensure proper placement.
the personalized grill  master cutting board from red envelope is a must-have.
posted by the funky monkey at 9:03 am 0 comments email this blogthis!
i think these glasses fromchalk talk glass are really neat.
stay sharper longer: harder than steel, and will hold edge longer than a steel blade • will not rust and is easy to clean: resistant to acids, germs and oils • will not affect the taste of or brown food •
as most  of you already know, the funky monkey is now on facebook!
*this giveaway ends on february 18th and is open to u.s. residents.
the second company, kids jewelry rocks, features the  sweetest accessories for girls.
the allyzabba blanket is made of raised plush fabric and silky satin backing and is machine washable.
when  everything has a place, i'm one happy mama.
share to twitter share to facebook labels: dad, health, kids, mom csn stores: swingsets if you don't shop with csn stores, you  should!
the allyzabba blanket is made of raised plush fabric and silky satin  backing and is machine washable.
i almost didn't want to open the box, but with chocolate that looked that great, i had to give in no matter how gorgeous the box!
posted by the funky  monkey  at 2:16 pm 88 comments email this blogthis!
post the link to this giveaway (facebook, blog, twitter etc.) and leave  the link in your comment (one entry per site) like red daisy studio on facebook here and leave your name
each pair comes with its own carrying pouch.
share to twitter share to facebook labels: giveaway, mom, shoes tuesday, february 22, 2011 social goodies: help eliminate educational inequality!
posted by the funky monkey  at 4:58 pm 0 comments email
most hand sanitizers leave my hands dry and smelly.
my cards arrived beautifully gift wrapped and i was very pleased when i saw these personalized cards for my family to use.
share to twitter share to  facebook labels: bags, giveaway, kids, teacher gifts the funky monkey is now on facebook!
this was a real treat!
i highly recommend it to anyone.
or how about a cool housewarming gift or a little surprise for the hostess!
(purchase will be verified with the company) - email three or more people about this giveaway and cc me at susannahbananaatlivedotcom **be sure to check out my "current giveaways" list on the right hand side of my blog.
being organized is something i'm constantly striving for.
congratulations to the lucky winner - vickec #33!
sponsored post from chalk talk glass posted by the funky  monkey  at 1:53 pm 0 comments email
you can check out theiretsy shop and their website.
why  should babies have all the fun?
how veripur™ with safetyderm® patented technology works: • deeply cleans and disinfects the skin • creates an invisible, undetectable shield on the surface of the skin that kills 99.9% of germs on contact and then continues to fight germs for four hours veripur™ benefits: • kills 99.9% of germs upon application • four hour continuous germ protection after application •
share to twitter share to facebook labels: food thursday, february 3, 2011 noodle & boo: extra gentle skin care for baby & mama when i was given the opportunity to try out noodle & boo, i didn't hesitate.
i created three wonderful varieties that i just have to share with you.
this pillow measures 12"x16" and can be monogrammed with  any name your little heart desires.
the  babysnapsack™ is a one-size-fits-all from infancy into toddlerhood.
there is no added sugar and is just 45 calories.
i am thrilled to introduce you to two boutiques that i think are absolutely adorable.
i received them ingold and  they're fantastic.
i chose the steakhouse design and it turned out amazing.
complimentary product was provided to me from proflowers for this review.
i cannot deny my love for the fabric letters from  fun & hip etsy shop,tootledoo designs.
posted by the funky monkey at 4:48 pm 115 comments email
i  absolutely love their jewelry.
if you haven't heard of metromint, you must try this delicious and refreshing water!
fishify your football favorites!
care instructions are included.
click  "comments" below this posting and leave a message as your entry.
toy 10 best games of 2009 •dr.
rhinestone tote bag givea...
red envelope would like to  offer one lucky reader a $50 gift certificate!
above is an  example of an unfilled version of the babysnapsack™.
each time we took our new baby out wrapped in this trendy baby blanket we got so many comments on it.
if you're looking for unique wedding or baby gifts, graduation gifts  and/orhousewarming gifts, always keep toodledoo designs in mind.
anything else that feels this  good tends to be illegal.
**the winner will be announced on february 23rd.
summer  is just around the corner!
the custom  monogram throw pillow sham is really cute, too.
this year my mom and i joined a gym together.
there are also built-in carrying handles underneath the board which are very comfortable to use.
they come in three delicious varieties - lemon lime, citrus and sugar free citrus.
as most of you already know, the funky monkey is now on facebook!
you'll love their personalized jewelry.
what a wonderful father's day gift this would make this year!
also, the  fish tokens don't have the tendency to slide all over the scoreboards.
posted by the funky monkey  at 10:15 am 0
share to  twitter share to facebook labels: accessories, clothing, kids lone pine designs: babysnapsack - baby sleeping bag giveaway
the blankets from allyzabba are so incredibly special and unique.
sexy lashes - luna b.
it held our lunches and outdoor gear.
we received the smooshed grape.
make any purchase from toodledoo designs for an extra 10 entries  (purchase will be verified with the company)
cutting veggies and fruit is so easy with my new ceramic knife.
my  kids have a blast playing this!
i'm here at  home with two sick kiddos.
this knife cuts like nothing i've ever experienced.
the babysnapsack™ eliminates the need to buy multiple sleep sacks in various sizes for rapidly growing babies.
white chocolate is his favorite and the combination of fruity pieces was delicious.
**the winner will be announced on february 21st.
kids or no  kids, this cargo tote is a must-have.
if you're looking for unique wedding or baby gifts, graduation gifts and/orhousewarming gifts, always keep toodledoo designs in mind.
i chose  the paper and style of thepeace blocks shown in the image above.
it's no wonder their 3-piece knife set received 4.5 out of 5 stars.
the bouncing baby bubbles is enriched with light moisturizers.
what are you waiting for, head on over to nothing
the fact that i get to be home with my kids - i wouldn't want any other job in the world.
we try to play at least one every night before bed.
this colour is so alive and fresh and will suit blondes, brunettes and redheads!
takes inches off the waist and urges the bust upwards with bi-directional back lacing.
mandatory entry: visit orabella lingerie and tell me the one bra you would choose.
**the  winner will be announced on march 2nd.
each knife purchase comes with a 30-day money back guarantee.
share to twitter share to facebook labels: games, giveaway, kids wednesday, february 2, 2011 orabella lingerie: bra of your choice giveaway
red daisy studio offers really  beautiful personalized jewelry that is modern and hip.
what a great  organizer for my trunk!
what excellent gifts these would make!
i love the floral design and sleek black color.
what a great organizer for my trunk!
their website is very easy to navigate through.
the all natural fruit strip was loved by my children.
mix it up and get the combination that's perfect for you!
detachable garters included with black and white, no garters included with other colours.
share to twitter share to facebook labels: bags, giveaway, kids, teacher gifts the funky monkey is now on facebook!
click here for details about this sleep sack.
pick some up today and feel the difference!
non-drying, alcohol free • contains hydrating moisturizers •
makes a great gift for  yourself or your favorite hostess.
to start, players  place 1 fish stick in the center of a table where all players can reach it.
congratulations to the lucky winner - kimberly #20!
posted by the funky monkey at 2:16 pm 88 comments email this blogthis!
colour emotion bra by jolidon you can not go wrong with this turquoise colour and black details!
boy oh boy, i love it!
mandatory entry: visit red  daisy studio and tell me one other item you love.
i am thrilled to introduce you to two boutiques that i think are  absolutely adorable.
mix and match prints or keep them all the same.
you may also take 10% off your order from their etsy shop with the  discount code: crystal mandatory entry: visit custom crystal couture and tell me  one other item you love.
**be sure to leave a separate comment for each entry.
the bag measures 15" x 16" and there are other bag colors to choose from.
the alcohol evaporates quickly after use so your hands are not  protected after application.
i was impressed with this solid sugar maple board right out of the box.
the chocolate bars all came individually wrapped and placed in an adorable gift box tied with a pink satin ribbon.
the festive is one of two styles fromcorso como’s latest “ ballasox” line, which takes the flat to a new level of blissful comfort  with the introduction of a soft, form-fitting sock sewn into the lining of a  butter skin leather upper and cushy rubber sole.
mila kunis' oscar dress 3.
you can always find me fighting germs!
you may do so with just your name.
this has been a really great step to take in helping me maintain my healthy lifestyle.
clickhere to view them all.
veripur™ is alcohol free and with the added hydrating ingredients including avocado, jojoba and grape seed oil, veripur™ also performs double duty as a daily moisturizer.
one lucky reader will win a fabric covered letter of their choice (a $20 value)!
the zipper also  provides the option to give a toddler uninhibited freedom of movement, while  still keeping them safely covered through the night.
posted by the funky monkey at 12:26 pm 222 comments email this blogthis!
you get to choose  your grade.
the pillow pictured above features brown corduroy piping, but you can  choose any color you wish.
this blanket is  huge–nearly 25 square feet of cozy goodness!
but dinosaurs is one awesome company.
**the winner will be announced on february 9th.
posted by the funky monkey at 11:49 am 0 comments email this blogthis!
my husband was very pleased when he saw his very own personalized cutting board.
i've heard of ceramic  knives, but had never tried one until i received my 6" ceramic chef's knife  fromshenzhen knives.
one lucky winner will with the ballasox stretch flat shoes of their choice.
each one counts as one  separate entry.
this is what is pictured above and what i received.
be sure to leave your email address so i can contact you if you're the lucky winner.
this tote is so easy to carry with its durable handles.
the personalized grill master cutting board from red envelope is a must-have.
orabella lingerie would like to offer one lucky reader the bra of their choice!
our fun, hand-painted  grape design is sure to get your guests talking.
*this giveaway ends on march 2nd and is open to  u.s. residents.
- dale & thomas popcorn: mother's day gift box {raf... - ► april (63) - mochithings: smartphone wallet & dual purse organ... - saige nicole's: sun hat & fedora for kids {raffle... - sonyarenee: simple & elegant jewelry - core bamboo: extra large modern round bowl {raffl... - zerowater: filtered water pitcher - 2 winners {ra... - olasonic: usb powered speakers {rafflecopter give...
share to twitter share to facebook labels: accessories, jewelry, mom kids t-shirts rock & kids jewelry rocks: two very cool boutiques!
for ideas on what to serve at your pre-game party, check outgorton's great recipes like salmon nachos, tenders tacos or grilled shrimp bruschetta.
you'll be  glad you did.
silky, light fabric, adjustable straps, invisible push-up gel cups in b cup, removable padding in c cup and slightly padded d/dd & e cups.
share to twitter share to facebook labels: dad, entertainment, kitchen, mom, party, personalized red envelope: $50 gift certificate giveaway
share to twitter share to facebook labels: dad, food, giveaway monday, february 14, 2011 shenzen knives: amazing ceramic chef knife i've heard of ceramic knives, but had never tried one until i received my 6" ceramic chef's knife fromshenzhen knives.
- bon ami: america's original natural home cleaner - designs by lolita: "shopaholic too" wine glass se... - taryn reed: hematite & sterling silver swivel hoo... - tattly: designy temporary tattoos - rks: reinhardt kettlebell system - looprope: 2 winners - {rafflecopter giveaway} - winners!
proflowers would like to offer one lucky reader a $50 gift certificate!
share to twitter share to facebook labels: accessories, clothing, kids lone pine designs: babysnapsack - baby sleeping bag giveaway
skip to main | skip to sidebar subscribe by email
*this giveaway ends on february 22nd and is open to u.s. residents.
check out the monogram fontshere.
comes in our signature packaging with your choice of a leather cord or organza ribbon.
a grateful doula recently sent over the following praise for allyzabba’s unique creations: “you’ve got this one right.
rehydrate, relax and relieve stress with metromint.
if not completed, your additional entries will be  disqualified.
this is definitely a gift they won't forget.
cannot be combined with other offers.
at least i get to spend my entire day with the two people who mean the world to me.
*the winner will be announced on february 25th.
my kids have a blast playing this!
sponsored post from chalk talk glass posted by the funky monkey at 1:53 pm 0 comments email
these dinosaur themed gift baskets are wonderful for birthdays, easter, christmas and anytime you want to give one really cool gift.
i love them and have displayed them on our bookshelf.
my son has eczema and my daughter has dry skin, so anything pediatrician tested and gentle is the way to go.
mandatory entry: visit allyzabba and tell me one blanket  you love.
it was much larger than i had expected which was a great thing.
even though it states it's for babies, i knew my own children would love the extra gentle, dermatologist-tested and hypoallergenic products.
*this giveaway ends on march 2nd and is open to u.s. residents.
i  would love to meet you!
posted by the funky monkey at 4:58 pm 0 comments email this blogthis!
share to twitter share to facebook labels: decor, etsy, home, kids, mom, my top boutique picks, personalized corso como: ballasox stretch flat shoes giveaway
their  prices are very reasonable and you get really beautiful handmade decor  delivered right to your mailbox.
she wouldn't be a moxie girl without a little bit of sugar  now would she?
after you have completed the mandatory entry above, you may do any of the additional entry options below for more ways to win.
share to twitter share to facebook labels: dad, food, kitchen, mom nothing
my daughter really enjoys playing with this and the illustrations on the cards are really cute.
there is no reading required.
my husband and dad think they have the best planners around.
i bet you can think of much, much  more!
**the winner will be announced on february 11th.
the pendant measures approximately 1/2" square.
you can also findpint glasses from this company, too!
great grapes  chalkboard wine glass this elegant wine glass features a chalkboard  for your guests to write their name on with a piece of chalk (included with  each purchase).
all opinions  are my own.
toy 10  best games of 2009 •dr.
- a drop of golden sun: the cutest family stationer... - stretch island fruit co. -
i found that i wasn't craving sweets as much.
lone pine designs creates a very unique product that i recently came across  - the babysnapsack.
this game is recommended for ages 6-12, 2 to 4 players.
sponsored post from nothing but dinosaurs posted by the  funky monkey  at 9:25 am 0 comments email this blogthis!
adorable flower detail in the middle!
share to twitter share to facebook labels: etsy, handmade, mom, personalized, stationery saturday, february 5, 2011 stretch island fruit co.
i was very happy to try out veripur's hand sanitizer moisturizer.
i had no idea some of these could be used in chocolate.
during the month of february for every new member that signs up to the site $1 will be donated to teach for america.
you can purchase these knives directly from their website or onamazon.com.
click "comments" below this posting  and leave a message as your entry.
post the link to this giveaway (facebook, blog, twitter etc.) and leave  the link in your comment (one entry per site) like allyzabba on facebook here and leave your name
share to twitter share to facebook labels: cool stuff, dad, mom, web deals sunday, february 6, 2011 a drop of golden sun: the cutest family stationery i'm a huge fan of personal notes through snail mail!
share to twitter share to facebook labels:  kids, outdoor, seasonal
each reusable basket is stuffed full of fantastic dinosaur toys!
our fun, hand-painted grape design is sure to get your guests talking.
my daughter cannot wait to give this to her teacher at the end of the school year!
you can put together your own mix pack of  chalk talk glasses.
you can findveripur hand sanitizer moisturizer exclusively in walgreens.
you may also choose your embroidery color.
congratulations to the lucky winner - tawnda #5!
this can hang either as a  square or a diamond.
pick some up today and feel the  difference!
congratulations to the following giveaway winners: wind & weather - bridget3496 #291 foxy originals - darlene demmell #39 proflowers - sarah matos #185 road id - tipper #67 choccreate - erin #76 personal creations - nicole greene #202 peacock republic - josefine #1 kyjen - jackie #11, shesanangel #142,
i would love to be able to wrap a baby, or myself, in one of these!
i love that about it.
the darlingsweetheart bears figurine from personal creations is oh so cute.
it was packaged wonderfully and arrived in excellent condition.
what a cute valentine's day gift this would make!
the width  will depend on the letter.
there were three designs for me to choose from - big game bar, sports bar and steakhouse.
complimentary product was provided to me fromcorso como for this review.
what a unique  piece.
complimentary product was provided to me from red envelope for this  review.
d now here is a product i cannot live without - the cargo tote.
*this giveaway ends on february 20th and is open to u.s. residents.
it was very good to drink after a meal.
the list goes on and on!
mine turned out super fabulous!
you do not need  to have a google account to comment.
when temptations are around, take small steps to help manage them.
the presentation was so pretty.
you'll be glad you did.
their prices are very reasonable and you get really beautiful handmade decor delivered right to your mailbox.
head on over to shenzhen knives to take advantage of this wonderful free gift.
posted by the funky monkey at 11:00 am 266 comments email
*this giveaway ends on february 8th and is open to u.s. residents.
red daisy studio would like to offer one lucky reader their very  own 3 mini discs necklace!
i  want them in every color.
their 1st grade rocks tote bag looks fantastic.
boned all around, all sections are rigid for maximum shaping, and hidden front closure is hook eye.
the megazabba is huge.
i was very intrigued with its creation.
the all of my heart bar is just so sweet.
read more about it: step right up! to the greatest show on earth® with the ringling bros. and barnum & bailey™ playing card set.
after you have completed  the mandatory entry above, you may do any of the additional entry options below  for more ways to win.
how fun will those be?!?
how veripur™ with safetyderm® patented technology works: • deeply cleans and disinfects the skin • creates an  invisible, undetectable shield on the surface of the skin that kills 99.9% of  germs on contact and then continues to fight germs for four hours veripur™ benefits: • kills 99.9% of germs upon application • four hour  continuous germ protection after application •
definitely my favorite pair of shoes so far this year.
makes a great gift for yourself or your favorite hostess.
posted by the funky monkey  at 12:02 pm  0 comments email this blogthis!
franklincovey products offers many solutions to help make your life easier.
order by bra size, ie.
i just love the look of their photo blocks.
the perfect gift for mother's da... - kiss my face: pump out the peace - winners!
i think this would look great in any kids room.
the ultimate fuzz remover {rafflecopter ... - just think toys: 20 pc sea port waterblocks set {... - la mer collections: simple wrap watch of your cho... - mally beauty:
a silky blanket is the one thing i tell new parents that they actually need for their newborn.”
become a fan... - red daisy studio:
it looks sophisticated and sleek.
this will really add some life to your decor!
the blankets from allyzabba are so incredibly special and  unique.
i received the tan and it looks fantastic.
right now you can take 20% off your order with the discount codefunkymonkey20.
second prize: one hundred will win free groceries for a week valued at $150.
sponsored post from allyzabba posted bythe funky monkey  at 12:26 pm 94 comments email this blogthis!
this pillow measures 12"x16" and can be monogrammed with any name your little heart desires.
posted by the funky monkey at 4:33 pm 4 comments email this blogthis!
post the link to this giveaway (facebook, blog, twitter etc.) and leave  the link in your comment (one entry per site) like corso como on facebook here and leave your name follow corso como on twitter here and leave your name email three or more people about this giveaway and cc me at  susannahbananaatlivedotcom **be sure to check out my "current giveaways" list on the right  hand side of my blog.
i received two of these personalized for each of my children.
share to twitter share to facebook labels: winners monday, february 7, 2011 dannon small steps sweepstakes!
i was sent the most gorgeous plant in the mail today.
i have never heard of customizing your own chocolate, so when i heard about choccreate, i about died and went to heaven.
i adored so many of their products.
this measures 16” x 11 ¾” x 1”h. this cutting board is very high in quality and the personalization really adds that extra special touch.
they're that popular, but with all of their choices, you really can't go wrong with any of them.
- mild bubbling agent formulated to minimize risk of allergic reactions - for ages six months and up - dermatologist and pediatrician tested; hypoallergenic.
share to twitter share to facebook labels: dad, floral, giveaway ,home, mom, office newer posts older posts home subscribe to: posts (atom) follow us premier companies grab our button  search
if not completed, your additional entries  will be disqualified.
posted by the funky monkey at 11:36 am 52 comments email this blogthis!
it also comes in leopard print, blue leaf print, blue and black.
chalk wipes off easily with a damp cloth.
uses spiral steel boning.
i really loved the spearmint and lemon mint flavors.
complimentary product was provided to me from noodle & boo for this review.
- standard basket this low maintenance plant looks great in my home and would look terrific in any office.
all you do is sign up with your email address to help raise money to "eliminate educational inequality." posted by the funky monkey at 5:26 pm 0 comments email this blogthis!
shenzhen knives is the leading online retailer of ceramic knives and ceramic knife sets.
this company doesn't just offer gift baskets, shop for apparel, bags and storage, bed and bath, books and dvds, footwear...the list goes on!
- subscribe to my blog via email - be sure to leave your email address in your comment - subscribe to my blog via rss feed/reader - like the funky monkey on facebook here and leave your name - follow the funky monkey on twitter here and leave your name - tweet about this giveaway and be sure to leave the link in your comment (qualifies as one extra entry per day) - post the link to this giveaway (facebook, blog, twitter etc.) and leave the link in your comment (one entry per site) - follow personal creations on twitter here and leave your name - like personal creations on facebook here and leave your name - email three or more people about this giveaway and cc me at susannahbananaatlivedotcom **be sure to check out my "current giveaways" list on the right hand side of my blog.
i received a veripur  product sample and a gift card to thank me for taking the time to  participate.”
it’s perfect for throwing on the back of the couch or cuddling up while watching a movie.
starbucks coffee posted by the funky monkey at 7:27 am 2 comments email
color choice cannot be guaranteed as they keep selling out!
also, the fish tokens don't have the tendency to slide all over the scoreboards.
features: - ideal for soccer moms, commuters, and vacationers - big enough to hold three grocery bags - internal divider prevents groceries from rolling - sturdy handles for easy lifting - mesh side pockets for smaller items - bottom grip strips hold tote securely in place - folds for easy storage - measures 23.5″ w × 12.5″ h × 12″ d head on over to franklincovey products to start shopping for the amazing products you see above.
right now you can take 10% off your order with the discount code:fan 10 head on over to chalk talk glass to start shopping!
she wouldn't be a moxie girl without a little bit of sugar now would she?
the allyzabba way at allyzabba, we craft each reversible baby blanket with both a silky and plush fabric to provide comfort and care to each child.
it's so special to display the names of your loved ones on such gorgeous pieces of jewelry.
classy chocolate for the plush fabric side and a choco-dot pattern or classy aloha print in your choice of colors for the silky satin backing.
monday, february 28, 2011 franklincovey products: organize your life from friends and  family, i always hear nothing but fantastic comments aboutfranklincovey products .
that's  great when you're moving around matching your fish up.
this non-drying, alcohol-free  hand sanitizer that kills 99.9% of germs on contact and continues to protect  your hands for up to four hours after application.
my family - every single day i'm in awe with them 2.
choose from simple sally, great greats, paws off, shamrocks, hearts and more.
congratulations to the lucky winner - vicki s #15!
dd cups order next larger size.
- dannon small steps sweepstakes!
lightweight: easy and comfortable to use for precision  slicing click here to view all of their knives and knife sets.
pearl, birthstone or crystal dangles are available as well as design stamps.
i can't get over their amazing selection for babies, kids, men, women, occasions...the list goes on and on.
*the winner will be announced on february 21st.
congratulations to the lucky winner - sarah matos #185!
you can purchase  these knives directly from their website or onamazon.com.
posted by the funky monkey  at  1:18 pm 205 comments email this blogthis!
they can't live without theirs and are very impressed with the quality and style franklincovey products is known for.
shop by price range,  child's age, dinosaur name and popular dinosaur brands.
be sure to leave your  email address so i can contact you if you're the lucky winner.
each one counts  as one separate entry.
each glass has a chalkboard area where your guests  can write their name with a piece of chalk (included with each purchase).
this will catch juices and prevent  spilling.
if you know someone who adores dinosaurs,  this is the place to shop!
if you're wondering what you're going to give your teacher this year, think rhinestone school grade tote bag fromcustom crystal couture.
shop by price range, child's age, dinosaur name and popular dinosaur brands.
drinking metromint is a refreshing and sensational experience.
read more about the ceramic advantage: ceramic knife blades are made from zirconium oxide which undergoes high-pressure molding before being fired.
this simple,  modern necklace looks great with a snapshot of her best friend, a favorite  piece of artwork or a family portrait.
corset length 32-38 is 13 inches for size 40-46 is 15 inches.
during the month of february for every new member that  signs up to the site $1 will be donated to teach for america.
congratulations to the lucky winner -  katklaw777 #114!
this handsome plant has white sail-like flowers that stand out between the shiny, dark green paddle-shaped leaves.
they're that  popular, but with all of their choices, you really can't go wrong with any of  them.
please note this jewelry is not recommended for children under 12.
red daisy studio would like to offer one lucky reader their very own 3 mini discs necklace!
complimentary product was provided to me from red envelope for this review.
the 3 mini discs necklace is so sweet.
i received the many varieties of metromint and they were all exceptional.
tell me how you would personalize your necklace if you won make any purchase from red daisy studio for an extra 10 entries email three or more people about this giveaway and cc me at  susannahbananaatlivedotcom **be sure to check out my "current giveaways" list on the right  hand side of my blog.
i loved seeing their wonderful and fun variety.
but dinosaurs to  take a look at everything they have to offer.
perfect for mother's day!
i received a veripur product sample and a gift card to thank me for taking the time to participate.”
mandatory entry: visit red envelope and tell me one other item you love.
it's so special to display the names of your  loved ones on such gorgeous pieces of jewelry.
head on over to noodle & boo to see all of their baby products as well as products for us moms.
post the link to this giveaway (facebook, blog, twitter etc.) and leave  the link in your comment (one entry per site) like lone pine designs on facebook here and leave your name
measures 7.5″ w ×  6″ h × 3.25″
you may also  choose your embroidery color.
mix it up and get the combination that's  perfect for you!
post the link to this giveaway (facebook, blog, twitter etc.) and leave  the link in your comment (one entry per site) like red envelope on facebook here and leave your name follow red envelope on twitter here and leave your name email three or more people about this giveaway and cc me at  susannahbananaatlivedotcom **be sure to check out my "current giveaways" list on the right  hand side of my blog.
this company  doesn't just offer gift baskets, shop for apparel, bags and storage, bed and  bath, books and dvds, footwear...the list goes on!
the  bag measures 15" x 16" and there are other bag colors to choose from.
rhinestone tote bag giveaway
antoinette corset stunning edwardian style satin brocade corset.
i was sent the most adorable personalized family stationery from the adorable etsy shop,a drop of golden sun.
it’s incredibly soft and cozy.
the funky orange envelopes really give these cards a kick!
check out all of their adorable blocks for holidays, weddings and much, much more.
i just love the  look of their photo blocks.
complimentary product was provided to me from personal creations for this review.
mandatory entry: visit corso como and tell me  the color you love.
measures 3”h x 3”w. personal creations offers such a wide variety of items to personalize.
players take turns matching fish by color and direction.
here's more about this plant from their website: our deluxe peace lily is the perfect gift, even for those that do not have a green thumb.
that's great when you're moving around matching your fish up.
i absolutely love their jewelry.
enterhere by uploading a photo of your game day seafood dish for a chance to win!
- snoozer loser: lucha libre mascara peach circle s... - zoobooks: aquatic animals & all about birds book ... - scholastic storybook treasures: mo willems' pigeo... - radioshack: trade & save program - haagen-dazs: limited edition ice cream flavors - volatile: sandals with sparkle - mktengineer: blue crystal & pearl mockingjay neck... - kemper and co. kids: eco-friendly children's furn... - jaw designs: three silk rosette hair clip {raffle... - winners!
- all natural formula made from 100% pure vegetable oil base that does not contain dehydrating detergents or irritating surfactants found in most soap today - tenderly soothes sensitive skin with oatmeal and aloe - extra gentle for sensitive skin - dermatologist and pediatrician tested; hypoallergenic - 9 ounce bar - arrives in signature pink/blue packaging i love their packaging.
share to twitter share to facebook labels: education, entertainment, games, giveaway, kids tuesday, february 15, 2011 simply perfect decor: the cutest handmade wooden blocks cute, cute and cuter...that's what i think of when theetsy shop simply perfect decor comes to mind.
great grapes chalkboard wine glass this elegant wine glass features a chalkboard for your guests to write their name on with a piece of chalk (included with each purchase).
i think this would look great  in any kids room.
share to twitter share to facebook labels:  giveaway, jewelry, mom, personalized allyzabba:
tested and proven effective against 20 commonly found strains of bacteria and four viruses • convenient size for travel and to bring anywhere – the home, office, beach, sporting events and gym “i wrote this review while participating in a mom central consulting blog tour on behalf of veripur hand sanitizer moisturizer.
after you have completed the mandatory entry above, you may do  any of the additional entry options below for more ways to win.
congratulations to the lucky winner - erin #76!
share to twitter share to facebook labels:  decor, etsy, home, kids, mom, my top boutique picks, personalized corso como: ballasox stretch flat shoes giveaway
posted bythe funky monkey  at 9:26 pm 0 comments email this blogthis!