a knife with a full tang, attached to the handle with three rivets, is the  preferred design.
some households have  functioned for years with a basic, economical set of cutlery knives.
proper knife  storage is extremely important as it helps to protect the edge, as well as the  knife point.
- about.com - home & garden - housewares / appliances housewares / appliances search free housewares / appliances newsletter!
a part of the new york times company.
- compare prices of ceramic knives - what's a ceramic knife?
it affects  cutting performance, as well as durability and handling.
knife  brands & prices
quality cutlery knives photo © mifflin
while you can generally feel the difference quality makes in a knife just by holding it in your hand, how well the blade will hold its edge or how long it will last, is not always that evident.
some compositions look and feel like wood, but are easy to care for.
when you do upgrade to a better quality knife, you'll  immediately know it.
once the preferred handle, wood has lost some popularity of late, mostly because of the care needed to keep this natural material in good condition.
regardless of whether you're a chef-in-training or simply want functional  kitchen tools to prepare meals, quality knives do improve performance, will  last longer, are more comfortable in the hand and are often safer.
in other words, paying at the extreme high end of the price range for good knives, does not necessarily guarantee better performance than what you would get with those in the mid to high range.
in  other words, paying at the extreme high end of the price range for good knives,  does not necessarily guarantee better performance than what you would get with  those in the mid to high range.
a well-balanced knife a high quality full-tang knife will be constructed to achieve a perfect balance in the hand.
this type of blade iseasier to sharpen and holds its edge longer.
some households have functioned for years with a basic, economical set of cutlery knives.
a  wooden handled knife should never be subjected to long periods of excess heat  or water, nor should it be cleaned in a dishwasher.
as with other consumer goods, a major brand name can be considered a status symbol and it's no different with knives.
it  gives the knife balance and durability.
they are however, more economical.
for this reason,  more durable poly composites or stainless handles which may or may not be more  economical depending on the specific construction, more easily fit into our  busy homes.
proper knife storage is extremely important as it helps to protect the edge, as well as the knife point.
it gives the knife balance and durability.
for this reason, more durable poly composites or stainless handles which may or may not be more economical depending on the specific construction, more easily fit into our busy homes.
- steel kitchen knives vs ceramic knives - understanding the differences - read zx black ceramic knives - review go to main cutlery & knives page go to home page compare prices of knives - cutlery knives - steak knives - knife sets related cutlery articles - how to use a knife steel - video - more about cutlery knives - splurge or save on flatware?
a serrated  edge is great for slicing bread or tomatoes and this blade type usually stays  sharp a long time.
a high quality stainless will also reduce the risk of pitting and  staining.
read knife reviews before you buy kitchen knives compare prices of knives learn about ceramic knives: ceramic knives: ceramic knives can also be considered specialty knives simply because of their different nature, since their use and care differs from the traditional steel kitchen knives.
a smooth, stainless handle is considered the best type for inhibiting bacterial growth, since this design is easier to wash and has no crevices.
there's also less choice when it comes to ceramic knives
see more about: - type of humidifier - before you buy a humidifier - top-loading washing machine vs. front-loading: which is bett… - super simple smoothie recipe - caring for your he washer
blade materials include various composites of steel and the higher  the steel quality (such as in german or japanese steel), the more durable the  knife.
when buying starter knives, you can often find cheaper models with at least full-tang blades ,bolsters, sturdy handles and stainless compositions.
and though serrated blades are very handy, a straight edge can more easily be sharpened.
since most consumers don't usually conduct handling comparisons in the storebefore buying knives, it's best to know the qualities of a good knife, to get the best value for your money.
knife blade composition the blade of course, is the most important knife component.
before you  can consider whether to splurge or save on kitchen knives, you need to  understand the differences in knife composition and how they affect the bottom  line.
a high quality  full-tang knife will be constructed to achieve a perfect balance in the hand.
basic, simple knife sharpening knife handle construction
mariette mifflin housewares / appliances guide - sign up for my newsletter related searches blade type knife blade kitchen knives difference quality knife blades steel quality explore housewares / appliances must reads most popular - valentine's day 2012 tips & gifts - the best appliance every time - save energy; save money - how to set the table - humidifiers - faq's
a forged blade is much stronger and more expensive.
knife brands & prices
however, not everyone can afford a pricey set of knives and you can always  upgrade your set, or even singles as the budget allows.
a forged blade is much stronger and more  expensive.
by mariette mifflin, about.com guide see more about: - kitchen gadgets - cutting boards - knives - cookware - flatware quality cutlery knives photo © mifflin
read knife  reviews
this will help you muddle through the vast range of knife prices to find a set that meets your needs and budget.
they're pricey  and require special care and storing.
learn more about knife handle compositions in just handle it!
when you do upgrade to a better quality knife, you'll immediately know it.
unlike a straight edge, serrated blades usually are not sharpened because the process is very tedious and requires special sharpening tools.
when you're faced with your first knife purchase, consider your needs - whether singles or a knife set would be more practical.
a high quality stainless will also reduce the risk of pitting and staining.
knife blades are either partial  or full tang.
sign up - housewares / appliances - appliances - house essentials - cooling & heating discuss in my forum splurge or save on cutlery knives what influences knife prices
a cheaper knife, though functional, will not usually be well-balanced.
before you buy kitchen knives compare prices of knives learn about ceramic knives: ceramic knives: ceramic knives can also be considered specialty knives simply because of  their different nature, since their use and care differs from the traditional  steel kitchen knives.
a wooden handled knife should never be subjected to long periods of excess heat or water, nor should it be cleaned in a dishwasher.
basic,  simple knife sharpening knife handle construction
when  buying knives, remember to factor in the cost of essential knife accessories  such asstorage, a knife steel and one or two cutting boards.
so, should you splurge or save on  knives?
a smooth, stainless handle is considered the best type for inhibiting  bacterial growth, since this design is easier to wash and has no crevices.
a well-balanced knife
before  buying quality knives, i'd recommend handling them to see how they fit and feel  in your hand.
an extension of the blade and a component that signals a better knife and increases the value, is a well-defined, comfortablebolster.
on the other hand, a straight edge  knife can be sharpened and the blade restored as required.
and though serrated  blades are very handy, a straight edge can more easily be sharpened.
unlike a straight edge, serrated blades usually are not  sharpened because the process is very tedious and requires special sharpening  tools.
this will help you muddle through the vast range of knife prices to find  a set that meets your needs and budget.
steel kitchen knives vs ceramic knives - understanding the differences read zx black ceramic knives - review go to main cutlery  & knives page go to home page
more from housewares related articles - top seafood tools - knife safety & sharpening - video - top steak knife sets - cutlery knives - how to buy cutlery knives - how to use a kitchen knife - lessons about using a knife - kitchen safety k... - calphalon katana series japanese steel 9" bread knife - review - super slicing with a santoku knife - top 3 chef's knives - best six-inch chef's knives - top 6" chef'...
regardless of whether you're a chef-in-training or simply want functional kitchen tools to prepare meals, quality knives do improve performance, will last longer, are more comfortable in the hand and are often safer.
they're pricey and require special care and storing.
a full tang blade that extends into the handle is the best.
as with18/0 and 18/10 flatware, or single-layer versus encapsulated cookware, you can feel the difference quality makes, see improved performance and enjoy your investment for years to come.
when buying knives, remember to factor in the cost of essential knife accessories such asstorage, a knife steel and one or two cutting boards.
an  extension of the blade and a component that signals a better knife and  increases the value, is a well-defined, comfortablebolster.
how the handle is attached to the blade is important for a durable knife.
ultimately, balance affects control which in turn improves performance and safety.
compare prices of ceramic knives what's a ceramic knife?
so, should you splurge or save on knives?
blades can have various  serrated patterns or have a straight edge, with or without abevel.
- privacy policy - your ad choices ©2012 about.com.
and it's essential that you know what you can do with one and how to care for them.
a serrated edge is great for slicing bread or tomatoes and this blade type usually stays sharp a long time.
as with other consumer goods, a major brand  name can be considered a status symbol and it's no different with knives.
when you're faced with your first knife purchase,  consider your needs - whether singles or a knife set would be more practical.
and it's essential that you know what you can do with one and how to care for  them.
handle shape affects control as well as comfort.
blades can have various serrated patterns or have a straight edge, with or without abevel.
some compositions look and feel like wood, but are easy to care  for.
on the other hand, a straight edge knife can be sharpened and the blade restored as required.
this is one knife detail that is well worth the extra cost.
learn more about knife handle compositions in just  handle it!
blade materials include various composites of steel and the higher the steel quality (such as in german or japanese steel), the more durable the knife.
before you can consider whether to splurge or save on kitchen knives, you need to understand the differences in knife composition and how they affect the bottom line.
as with18/0 and 18/10 flatware, or single-layer versus  encapsulated cookware, you can feel the difference quality makes, see improved  performance and enjoy your investment for years to come.
ultimately, balance affects control which in turn improves performance and  safety.
a cheaper  knife, though functional, will not usually be well-balanced.
by category - kitchen gadgets - cutting boards - knives - cookware - flatware - large appliances - small appliances - air, water & recycling - brands, mfrs & retailers - canning & home preserving - consumer awareness - cookware - cooling & heating - gifts & hosting - glossary - essential home products - kitchen & tableware - laundry & fabric care - store, clean & organize - vacuum & floor care housewares / appliances - about.com - home & garden - housewares / appliances - kitchen & tableware - cutlery & knives - cutlery knives - splurge or save on cutlery knives - most popular - latest articles - rss - advertise on about.com - our story - news & events - work at about - sitemap - all topics - reprints - help - write for about - user agreement - ethics policy - patent info.
however, not everyone can afford a pricey set of knives and you can always upgrade your set, or even singles as the budget allows.
before buying quality knives, i'd recommend handling them to see how they fit and feel in your hand.
knife blades are either partial or full tang.
knife blades are  either stamped - cut or punched from a sheet of steel, or forged - metal is  shaped or formed after being heated.
it affects cutting performance, as well as durability and handling.
once the preferred handle, wood has lost some popularity of late, mostly  because of the care needed to keep this natural material in good condition.
ceramic knife blades are a different breed altogether.
since most consumers don't usually conduct handling comparisons in the  storebefore buying knives, it's best to know the qualities of a good knife, to  get the best value for your money.
knife blades are either stamped - cut or punched from a sheet of steel, or forged - metal is shaped or formed after being heated.
while you can generally feel  the difference quality makes in a knife just by holding it in your hand, how  well the blade will hold its edge or how long it will last, is not always that  evident.
a knife with a full tang, attached to the handle with three rivets, is the preferred design.