don't put your knifes in the dishwasher, and don't use abrasives or chemicals to clean them.
- you know, if you don't already have a good steel, before you do anything else, go ahead and get one like the standard high qualitywusthof steel, good for just about any knife out there (except serrated knifes, which should be sharpened by a professional).
i carry the longer wusthof fillet knives which are more useful  and versatile than the short fillet knives more retail outlets carry (why are  people scared of long knives?!?)
a truly great knife, that i everyone is thrilled with.
a very affordable and essential too!
one thing: don't just jump in and hack away with your old coarse sharpening steel.
and by  good, i mean big!
with the internet and cable  network food shows, i could clearly see that both professionals and serious  home cooks had moved beyond these old brands and were discovering real gems  from around the world, both in terms of brands, and also in terms of styles,  shapes, and overall design.
i love the new classic ikon and would definitely choose  that model if i had to pick one today.
mind you, if you really prefer the  profile of the traditional cook's knife, then by all means go with an 8"  chef's knife if you're comfortable with that -- i'm sure you'll be pleased.
the slicers and bread knives i sell are all fine for the job, with  nice thin and sharp blades, which make short work of crusty bread or meats.
check out thelinks below for more information or here for my full knife sharpening tools selection.
and remember, if you still need help deciding what to buy,  or are looking for a gift and don't know where to start, feel free tocontact me!
hardest steel, super sharp, best looks and performance:
you should actually give your knife a few light strokes on the steel once a week (or every few days even).
- classic chef's/cook's knife: if you prefer a traditional european/western shape, go with a standard french/german chef's/cook's knife.
finally, use a good plastic or wooden cutting board, not a glass or metal or stone counter or board, as a sharp edge hitting a stone surface is of course a recipe for dulling!
one thing: don't just jump in and hack away with your old coarse  sharpening steel.
borner chroma dalla piazza edge pro edgecraft felco maha
again, the wusthof are superb and constantly winning awards and "best  bets" from major publications because they work well, they're rugged, and  they're easy to maintain and sharpen -- a real no-brainer if you just want a  no-nonsense knife to cook dinner with.
wait until your knife is dull.
what's with all these companies making klunky thick-bladed  8-inch "bread" knives?!?
all in all, a thin-bladed serrated slicer is an incredibly useful tool to have around the kitchen.
what's with all these companies making klunky thick-bladed 8-inch "bread" knives?!?
most japanese knives are also thinner and lighter than the german knives like the wusthof classic/grandprix2/culinar chef's knives, and they don't have bolsters, so the very base (heel) of the blade is a bit more useful (if you aren't already used to using a knife with a bolster).
one  very sharp, very strong and very big serrated knife which makes a killer bread  knife and yet isn't too expensive is thewusthof gourmet 10" confectioner's  knife -- if you want a big serrated knife but don't want to spend the extra big  money, this one is certainly a nice option (and it cuts like crazy).
authentication - sign in - register - forgot password?
forget the fancy rapid-fire knife-handling you see on tv.
in my opinion, the easiest  way to do this is simply with a steel.
and of  course you just know you're paying too much if there isn't the ever-present  "big 20% off sale" sign in the window.
or if you're in love with the idea of a granton edge (dimples) japanese knife and want something really nice without breaking the bank, the sakai takayuki (8.3" or 9.5") are fantastic and a great value (they're made with excellent and hard steel, and very durable handles).
if you really need to hack away at something, use a tool for the job: a cleaver or other heavy duty knife, not your little 6" utility knife!
santoku: this style is light, thin, sharp and easy to  handle.
they're really not that complicated to use.
rachael ray of foodtv's 30-minute meals uses the classic version  of this exact santoku (before she signed an endorsement deal with another  company).
they were designed for thin slicers, but manufacturers put  them on everything now because they look cool and help sell knives.
thesakai takayuki japanese-made damascus santokus are now my best-selling santokus, and they are very sharp and high quality, and an incredible value if you love that damascus look (and who doesn't!)
the added length and curve of the blade can be very comfortable if you're used to the traditional "rocking" motion.
you know, if you don't already have a good steel, before you do anything  else, go ahead and get one like the standard high qualitywusthof steel, good  for just about any knife out there (except serrated knifes, which should be  sharpened by a professional).
you'll often hear from these "experts" (they're  usually simply business-people -- importers/distributors -- not knife makers,  experts or even chefs) that you can't use a steel on a japanese knife, or that  a steel will "ruin" a japanese knife edge somehow, and so they sell  you their junky drag-through systems with carbide that just tear up the edge of  the knife.
and again, if you do need to  touch up your blade (which is normal), go slowly and avoid the theatrics of  swiping the blade over the steel in a swash-buckling manner like you'll  sometimes see tv chefs do when in full "performance" mode.
i use the classic version at home (the others are pretty much the same... just different handles, so just choose the one you like best).
they're really not that complicated to  use.
i personally think that some knives with a ground edge (most german knives) can keep that nice "bite" in their edge better with a traditional steel (metal), but the difference can be subtle.
and so i'm very proud and happy to make these  incredible knives available to my fellow canadians at truly fair every-day  discounted prices!
the blade is thin and narrow  in profile, and so a nice item to have for more delicate work (thin slicing),  or even for cutting sandwiches (i like the thin blade for cutting delicate  cakes too).
to restore a dull edge (when the steel no longer does the job), you can  use a ceramic or diamond "steel" (see thewusthof fine and medium), or  one of the easy to use and pretty foolproof sharpening systems bychef's choice.
razor sharp and versatile -- a super choice for home cooks: trust me, you'll never go back to the old chef's knife style once you switch to a santoku and learn to appreciate the smaller size and increased versatility of the blade shape.
so if you have a japanese or other knife with a similar polished edge (the misono japanese knives have polished edges), then a ceramic is a good choice.
well, traditionally the 8" chef's knife has been a standard,  but these days, many people opt instead for a santoku which is just a little  bit smaller but perhaps more versatile and easier to handle.
all orders subject to approval.
these are very nice knives: sharp and durable and very well made with great fit and finish, at a truly fantastic price -- all-around great values without a doubt (don't let the affordable prices fool you!).
fact:  dimples do not reduce "suction" and "sticking" like some  people and sellers claim -- it's really just about reducing friction: since  there is less material for the food to contact with as it passes the cutting  edge, theoretically you should be able to get paper thin slices a bit more  easily.
yes, it's shorter, but in a way it's really a more versatile knife, capable of dealing with all kinds of breads and other crusty items, including roast meats, veggies, etc.
a good sharp knife is a good cutting  tool, so let it do its job -- there should be no need (most of the  time) to push down really hard, and this is especially true with a serrated  edge, which is designed to cut just fine with gentle and steady pressure and  movement, without hacking away!
classic chef's/cook's knife: if you prefer a traditional  european/western shape, go with a standard french/german chef's/cook's knife.
should you get an 8" or a 9" chef's knife?
or you're expected to bargain with some sales clerk or owner (which i hate doing) just to get what should be a fair and clearly posted price to begin with.
again, the japananese misono molybdenum utility/petty knives are really nice, and different in shape than a wusthof utility knife, in that they are shaped more like mini chef's knives rather than large paring knives -- not that one is necessarily better than the other, but it's something to think about.
if you like to prepare fresh fish and larger cuts of meat, be sure to also invest in a boning knife or fine fish fillet knife.
now, a ceramic rod does work, but you have to understand that a fine ceramic is very fine -- almost not abrasive at all, and japanese knife steel is normally harder than german knife steel, so you have to use it regularly (daily, or at least a few times a week), or else it simply won't do a darn thing.
this is the same sort of  steel included in all "sets" and in 99% of the kitchen stores out  there, but in a more versatile 10" length for sharpening longer chef's  knives.
for example, themisono  molybdenum series 24cm chef's knife is 1cm longer than the wusthof classic  9", but a full 32 grams (12%) lighter.
- bread knife/roast knife: unless you're a dedicated sliced-bread person, every household should have a good bread knife.
thinner, sharper, harder steel, affordable: if you're thinking of trying a real japanese knife, i'd have no hestitation in recommending amisono molybdenum santoku or a sakai takayuki santoku.
this might have been fine to restore some semblance of an edge on your old knives, but it can seriously junk the razor-sharp and precisely-ground edge on your new japanese knife, so don't just go at it, and don't let your well-meaning friend or family member (why does it always seem to be a brother-in-law?!?)
- santoku: this style is light, thin, sharp and easy to handle.
or for the more standard "carving knives" like we're all used  to, check out the fine wusthof models.
finally, use a good  plastic or wooden cutting board, not a glass or metal or stone counter or  board, as a sharp edge hitting a stone surface is of course a recipe for  dulling!
one very sharp, very strong and very big serrated knife which makes a killer bread knife and yet isn't too expensive is thewusthof gourmet 10" confectioner's knife -- if you want a big serrated knife but don't want to spend the extra big money, this one is certainly a nice option (and it cuts like crazy).
thinner, sharper, harder steel, affordable: if  you're thinking of trying a real japanese knife, i'd have no hestitation in  recommending amisono molybdenum santoku or a sakai takayuki santoku.
wusthof cook's models (all professional-level knives),  or a 9.5" japanese knife, like the top-of-the-line misono ux10 or one of  the many excellentsakai takayuki models.
i do my best to offer the lowest prices i can, everyday (no need to wait for a "sale" like in the stores), with personal service and fast shipping: order by noon est and your order will shiptoday!
ceramic honing rods: much has been said about ceramic and  steel honing rods by ill-informed north-american japanese knife distributors  and importers.
you can't go wrong with any of these: - wusthof classic, classic ikon, grand prix ii, le cordon bleu or culinar cook's knife.
- consider yourself more "old school" and want some heavy iron ?
then go for a professional size for serious kitchen action: consider the larger 10" (260mm)
all in all, a  thin-bladed serrated slicer is an incredibly useful tool to have around the  kitchen.
will definitely buy again from paul !
the  trick is to simply use it regularly --
the santoku is the traditional japanese cook's knife, so you can rest  assured that it functions just fine as an everyday knife, and as you can see by  many celebrity chefs on tv, this style of knife is gaining many converts  outside of the asian community now.
a sharp edge cuts better  than a dull edge (!), so it follows that a sharp knife is a better tool.
a serrated slicer is also handy for general baking/pastry jobs.
for example, themisono molybdenum series 24cm chef's knife is 1cm longer than the wusthof classic 9", but a full 32 grams (12%) lighter.
this is a standard item in many of the old-fashioned "sets" sold by other manufacturers.
- sharpener: yes, you'll need to do a bit of regular maintenance to keep your nice new knife razor-sharp.
not too keen on big unsliced loaves of bread or you don't have lots of space in your knife block for such a big blade?
this is what you'll probably end up using 90% of the time in your everyday home or professional kitchen.
- slicer (also called carving knife): if you like to purchase and prepare larger cuts of meat yourself (whole chickens, etc.), then
your mileage may vary.
the santoku is the traditional japanese cook's knife, so you can rest assured that it functions just fine as an everyday knife, and as you can see by many celebrity chefs on tv, this style of knife is gaining many converts outside of the asian community now.
and remember, don't just push down; let the sharp edge  do its job by using a nice steady slicing action.
chad ward's new bookan edge  in the kitchen also highly recommends the edgepro system as the best of  the manual guide-based sharpening systems.
when making comparisons, please  remember that the exchange rate you'll actually pay is actually about 2% above  the official rate (the credit card companies and paypal take 2% as their  conversion fee); you'll pay 7% duty (yes, there is at least 7% duty on knives  coming into canada), and you'll pay between $5 and $8 brokerage/handling fee  from canada post (and this fee will be well over $50 if you use ups, fedex or  some other such shipper); my shipping charges are generally half (or less) than  what you'll pay to ship from a us company into canada; and you'll have no  duty/brokerage delays and hassles that cross-border shopping often entails.
beautiful carbon steel blades, direct from japan.
so  keep in mind that a sharp knife is a safe knife, because it allows for more  precise control and effortless slicing, chopping and cutting, resulting in  fewer opportunities for slippage and accidental mishandling.
paul's knife hints & tips remember, a knife is a tool designed for cutting.
the trick is to maintain the edge so you don't have to create a new one.
a lot depends on your honing technique -- a light touch and reverse honing (drag the knife so that the edge trails on the steel -- try it, it works!)
and if you don't want to bother with stones and want something with some actual abrasion to help when the edge really starts to get worn (this can take as long as a year or more at home, if you use your fine hone regularly!)
this is a standard item in many of the old-fashioned  "sets" sold by other manufacturers.
thetakayuki 5.3" utility knife is very  good-looking and an excellent performer at a great price -- my #1 most popular  such utility knife now, and very handy for smaller slicing/dicing jobs like  onion, ginger and garlic.
the misono long slicers are also superb, with the one wielded by tv's "top chef" being popular, and the sakai takayuki line offers a number of superb japanese slicers at quite reasonable prices.
top picks: easy maintenance, rugged, affordable: wusthof classic  santoku, classic ikon, grand prix ii santoku or culinar santoku: beautiful  knife, super-sharp, great-looking.
and if you want something really high-end with superb steel and incredible balance and the best construction quality, check out thetakayuki 63-layer and misono ux10 santoku and see why these are now my #1 best seller among professional chefs and serious home cooks.
if you're not sure where to start in putting together a quality knife collection?
okay, back  to ceramic: i was tired of the small and cheap junk sold by the north american  japanese knife distributors, so i sought out a quality manufacturer and  imported them directly.
top picks: i prefer small/short paring knives, so i like the small size and  razor-sharp edge of the wusthof 3.5" paring knives (all lines)
not too keen on big unsliced loaves of bread or you don't have lots  of space in your knife block for such a big blade?
in terms of care, try to wash your knife as soon as possible after use  (never leave it in a sink with dirty dishes), dry it and then put it back  safely in a proper knife block or magnetic strip, and not in a drawer where  it'll bang around or where someone could stick their hand in by accident.
should you get an 8" or a 9"  chef's knife?
rachael ray of foodtv's 30-minute meals uses the classic version of this exact santoku (before she signed an endorsement deal with another company).
the 8" chef's knife is certainly still the best-selling size, but if you're a professional chef or culinary school student or if you already have a santoku and want something bigger to complement it, then it can make sense to move up to a 9" or 10" (or 240mm/9.5" in the case of japanese knives) chef's knife.
take your time, remembering to always keep your fingers of the guiding hand (not holding the knife) tucked inwards, away from the blade, and your thumb tucking in behind your fingers and not sticking out as most of us do without thinking!
a good knife blade is extremely strong when used vertically in a normal cutting motion, but with very hard steel sharpened to a fine edge (as it will be on most good japanese knives!), it could chip or could even snap if you try to use if for something like prying.
and if you're thinking of going old-school with the ultimate performance of a carbon steel blade, don't miss a superbmoritaka santoku!
- my current sharpening systems inventory.
information - contact us - about paulsfinest.com - knife information - wusthof knives faq - batteries & chargers faq - maha
with a butcher's steel can do wonders.
all other trademarks belong to their respective owners.
okay, back to ceramic: i was tired of the small and cheap junk sold by the north american japanese knife distributors, so i sought out a quality manufacturer and imported them directly.
similarly, a 4-5" "utility  knife" is also a great second knife choice if you already have some paring  knives that are doing the trick.
i use the classic version at home (the  others are pretty much the same... just different handles, so just choose the  one you like best).
get the best knife you can for your budget that suits your needs and  personal preferences in terms of materials, shape and handle styles, and don't  let dimples factor into the decision until the end!
anthony bourdain  recommends this style of knife, as does famous pastry chef sherry yard, and i  keep seeing chefs on food network canada using offset serrated knives too (i  just saw several on one night's episode of iron chef america for example).
then the "offset serrated" knife is a great option.
or if you're in love  with the idea of a granton edge (dimples) japanese knife and want something  really nice without breaking the bank, the sakai takayuki (8.3" or  9.5") are fantastic and a great value (they're made with excellent and  hard steel, and very durable handles).
you're in love with the damascus steel look?...then check out this beautifulsakai takayuki 8.3" model.
basically, a sharp knife lets you concentrate on the job at hand, without worrying about putting tons of pressure on the blade or about ruining a delicate item you're trying to prepare.
if you really need to hack away at something,  use a tool for the job: a cleaver or other heavy duty knife, not your little  6" utility knife!
a good sharp knife is a good cutting tool, so let it do its job -- there should be no need (most of the time) to push down really hard, and this is especially true with a serrated edge, which is designed to cut just fine with gentle and steady pressure and movement, without hacking away!
- to restore a dull edge (when the steel no longer does the job), you can use a ceramic or diamond "steel" (see thewusthof fine and medium), or one of the easy to use and pretty foolproof sharpening systems bychef's choice.
get the best knife you can for your budget that suits your needs and personal preferences in terms of materials, shape and handle styles, and don't let dimples factor into the decision until the end!
chad ward's new bookan edge in the kitchen also highly recommends the edgepro system as the best of the manual guide-based sharpening systems.
both are truly superb high-end knives.
michel simard view all testimonials write your own testimonial your cart cart is empty
or for the more standard "carving knives" like we're all used to, check out the fine wusthof models.
see my full selectionhere.
the10" ceramic hones i sell are great, and very reasonably priced.
you're in love with the damascus steel look?...then  check out this beautifulsakai takayuki 8.3" model.
the10" ceramic hones i sell are great, and very  reasonably priced.
you  should actually give your knife a few light strokes on the steel once a week  (or every few days even).
otherwise,  the most popular traditional "bread knife" i sell is thewusthof  classic 9" (forged, very nice, very strong, perfect length; also available  in theother handle styles).
and remember, if you still need help deciding what to buy, or are looking for a gift and don't know where to start, feel free tocontact me!
and  my newall-in-one real japanese waterstone is fantastic if you want the ultimate  in old-school versatility and quality!
the added length and curve of the blade can be very comfortable if you're used  to the traditional "rocking" motion.
update: as of 2009 i am now using my10" fine ceramic hone on all  my knives and have all but retired my trusty old steel.
a good knife blade is extremely strong when used  vertically in a normal cutting motion, but with very hard steel sharpened to a  fine edge (as it will be on most good japanese knives!), it could chip or could  even snap if you try to use if for something like prying.
moritaka japanese knives mcusta zanmai knives knife sharpeners opinel knives new!
or if you want the incredible  performance of a real carbon steel (not stainless) blade, don't miss the  incrediblemoritaka knives available in all the most popular sizes.
or you're expected to bargain  with some sales clerk or owner (which i hate doing) just to get what should be  a fair and clearly posted price to begin with.
they were designed for thin slicers, but manufacturers put them on everything now because they look cool and help sell knives.
most japanese knives are also thinner and lighter than the german knives  like the wusthof classic/grandprix2/culinar chef's knives, and they don't have  bolsters, so the very base (heel) of the blade is a bit more useful (if you  aren't already used to using a knife with a bolster).
popular with men and women, it's great for just about any cooking  style.
chinese cleavers / chef's knives wenger knives i used to find it frustrating to see the same low-end lines of  "brand-name" knives and accessories at my local kitchen shops.
and if you're thinking of going old-school with the ultimate  performance of a carbon steel blade, don't miss a superbmoritaka santoku!
that's why i prefer to sell bread knives  that are at least 9" in length, which in my mind is the ideal size for  home use.
a  serrated slicer is also handy for general baking/pastry jobs.
high quality, fantastic value:direct from japan means savings for you.
but since i don't profess to be a professional in this area, here are  some resources to get you started: loads of sharpening info at egullet (and the author of this big page has  now expanded it into a new book that i would recommend for anyone wanting to  learn more about knives and sharpening:an edge in the kitchen)
you don't need the fancy handle of the more  expensive models -- this one works just fine, and the nice 10" length  means it's big enough to sharpen even a serious chef's knife blade easily.
so get the best, sharpest knives you can afford, treat them with care,  keep them sharp, and they should last you a lifetime.
they're not hammers,  screwdrivers, or pry bars.
secondary knife: a small paring knife for fruit and  vegetable peeling, paring, slicing and other small jobs, and a utility knife.
, i also sell thecoarser model to help bring the edge back.
they're not hammers, screwdrivers, or pry bars.
that's really too small to be useful for  slicing larger loaves or artisan-bakery bread, or even for doing pretty common  baking jobs like slicing cake layers.
so if you have a japanese or other knife with a similar polished edge  (the misono japanese knives have polished edges), then a ceramic is a good  choice.
the blade is thin and narrow in profile, and so a nice item to have for more delicate work (thin slicing), or even for cutting sandwiches (i like the thin blade for cutting delicate cakes too).
again, the japananese misono molybdenum  utility/petty knives are really nice, and different in shape than a wusthof  utility knife, in that they are shaped more like mini chef's knives rather than  large paring knives -- not that one is necessarily better than the other, but  it's something to think about.
if you like to prepare fresh fish  and larger cuts of meat, be sure to also invest in a boning knife or fine fish  fillet knife.
and of course use them for cutting only!
when making comparisons, please remember that the exchange rate you'll actually pay is actually about 2% above the official rate (the credit card companies and paypal take 2% as their conversion fee); you'll pay 7% duty (yes, there is at least 7% duty on knives coming into canada), and you'll pay between $5 and $8 brokerage/handling fee from canada post (and this fee will be well over $50 if you use ups, fedex or some other such shipper); my shipping charges are generally half (or less) than what you'll pay to ship from a us company into canada; and you'll have no duty/brokerage delays and hassles that cross-border shopping often entails.
and remember, don't just push down; let the sharp edge do its job by using a nice steady slicing action.
categories - sale & clearance items - gift ideas - gift ideas under $50 (34) - gift ideas $50-$100 (47) - gift ideas $100-$200 (49) - gift ideas
great looking, and serious performance and durability.
again, the wusthof are superb and constantly winning awards and "best bets" from major publications because they work well, they're rugged, and they're easy to maintain and sharpen -- a real no-brainer if you just want a no-nonsense knife to cook dinner with.
this way your knife will stay sharp and won't need a serious re-sharpening by a pro or by some sharpening system.
basically, a sharp  knife lets you concentrate on the job at hand, without worrying about putting  tons of pressure on the blade or about ruining a delicate item you're trying to  prepare.
site map | product map | terms & conditions | privacy policy copyright © 2000-2012 paulsfinest.com
if you're not sure where to  start in putting together a quality knife collection?
top picks: - easy maintenance, rugged, affordable: wusthof classic santoku, classic ikon, grand prix ii santoku or culinar santoku: beautiful knife, super-sharp, great-looking.
here are some of my personal favourites best bets depending on your budget and personal style and preferences: - primary knife: start with a good all-purpose knife.
if you like the look and it's not  much more money, then fine (i'll admin, they do look kind of cool!), but i wouldn't let dimples affect my decision on a particular knife purchase .
these are  very nice knives: sharp and durable and very well made with great fit and  finish, at a truly fantastic price -- all-around great values without a doubt  (don't let the affordable prices fool you!).
here are some of my  personal favourites best bets depending on your budget and personal style and  preferences: primary knife: start with a good all-purpose knife.
price comparisons: i try to be as competitive as possible with suppliers outside of canada.
in my opinion, the easiest way to do this is simply with a steel.
bread knife/roast knife: unless you're a dedicated  sliced-bread person, every household should have a good bread knife.
not responsible for typographical or other unintentional errors.
a sharp edge cuts better than a dull edge (!), so it follows that a sharp knife is a better tool.
mind you, i also use a steel on global and other knives, and it works fine for me (with a gentle touch!).
you can't go wrong with any of  these: wusthof classic, classic ikon, grand prix ii, le cordon bleu or culinar  cook's knife.
a lot depends on your honing technique -- a  light touch and reverse honing (drag the knife so that the edge trails on the  steel -- try it, it works!)
but a good chef just needs a good sharp knife and a little practice to  get precise and thin slices, not gimmicks.
then the "offset  serrated" knife is a great option.
over $200 (28) - maha nimh chargers & batteries - maha nimh battery chargers (18) - maha powerex nimh batteries (12) - maha accessories (11) - peugeot pepper & salt mills - manual/classic (27) - u-select (36) - electric (6) - accessories (8) - knives, by type - chef knives, over 8" (41) - chef knives, up to 8" (44) - santoku (33) - paring knives, small (up to 4") (28) - slicers, carving knives, sujihikis (70) - bread knives (23) - traditional japanese knives (1) - deba (8) - usuba (6) - yanagiba (14) - carbon steel (29) - wusthof knives - wusthof classic (79) - wusthof classic ikon (34) - wusthof grand prix ii (42) - wusthof culinar (33) - wusthof le cordon bleu (16) - wusthof gourmet (37) - wusthof butcher series (14) - wusthof sets / gift packs (28) - wusthof accessories (49) - misono knives - sakai takayuki knives - 17-layer damascus (9) - 45-layer damascus (6) - 63-layer damascus (9) - traditional japanese (28) - grand chef (16) - grand chef japanese (6) - inox (2) - aonikou blue-2 carbon steel (4) - silver-3 gin-san (2) - other (8) - moritaka knives - mcusta zanmai knives - chroma knives - opinel knives - wenger knives - felco pruners - chinese chef's knives - sharpening stones - naniwa super stones (11) - naniwa chosera stones (10) - edgepro systems (13) - wusthof (4) - knife sharpeners - chef's choice - kitchen tools - borner slicers (1) - microplane graters (16) - cheese knives, tools (8) - wine accessories (3) - misc tools (24) - waffle irons manufacturers select a manufacturer---------------------------
even more savings on many best-selling knives.
with the internet and cable network food shows, i could clearly see that both professionals and serious home cooks had moved beyond these old brands and were discovering real gems from around the world, both in terms of brands, and also in terms of styles, shapes, and overall design.
but since i don't profess to be a professional in this area, here are some resources to get you started: - loads of sharpening info at egullet (and the author of this big page has now expanded it into a new book that i would recommend for anyone wanting to learn more about knives and sharpening:an edge in the kitchen) -
otherwise, the most popular traditional "bread knife" i sell is thewusthof classic 9" (forged, very nice, very strong, perfect length; also available in theother handle styles).
consider yourself more "old school" and want some heavy iron ?
so get the best, sharpest knives you can afford, treat them with care, keep them sharp, and they should last you a lifetime.
price comparisons: i try to be as competitive as  possible with suppliers outside of canada.
mind you, if you really prefer the profile of the traditional cook's knife, then by all means go with an 8" chef's knife if you're comfortable with that -- i'm sure you'll be pleased.
my current sharpening systems inventory.
go slowly, maintain a precise and steady angle (which is why you should take your time!), and check the blade frequently so you don't do more than necessary to restore the edge.
and if  you want something really high-end with superb steel and incredible balance and  the best construction quality, check out thetakayuki 63-layer and misono ux10  santoku and see why these are now my #1 best seller among professional chefs  and serious home cooks.
anthony bourdain recommends this style of knife, as does famous pastry chef sherry yard, and i keep seeing chefs on food network canada using offset serrated knives too (i just saw several on one night's episode of iron chef america for example).
powerex mcusta zanmai metrokane microplane misono moritaka naniwa opinel peugeot sakai takayuki swissmar wenger wusthof testimonials great service, ridiculously fast shipping (got the item less than 30 hours after submitting the order, no joke!)
this way your knife will stay sharp and won't need a  serious re-sharpening by a pro or by some sharpening system.
now, a ceramic rod does work, but you have to understand that a fine  ceramic is very fine -- almost not abrasive at all, and japanese knife steel is  normally harder than german knife steel, so you have to use it regularly  (daily, or at least a few times a week), or else it simply won't do a darn  thing.
you don't need the fancy handle of the more expensive models -- this one works just fine, and the nice 10" length means it's big enough to sharpen even a serious chef's knife blade easily.
dimples: since so many people ask: in my opinion, dimples  (a "granton" edge) on a santoku or chef's knife do nothing (or very  little at least).
well, traditionally the 8" chef's knife has been a standard, but these days, many people opt instead for a santoku which is just a little bit smaller but perhaps more versatile and easier to handle.
the misono long slicers are also superb, with the one wielded by tv's "top chef" being popular, and the sakai  takayuki line offers a number of superb japanese slicers at quite reasonable  prices.
that's why i prefer to sell bread knives that are at least 9" in length, which in my mind is the ideal size for home use.
or again,  if you're thinking of trying a japanese knife because you want something  lighter and thinner than a german knife but prefer a traditional shape, the misono molybdenum and ux10 chef's knives are light, strong, and an abolute  pleasure to own and use.
language: login | register | contact us | help | view cart - home - sale & clearance - salt & pepper mills - knives - maha powerex - shopping cart this site requires javascript to function properly.
andsakai  takayuki 3.2" paring knives-- it's a knife you'll see professional chefs  use a lot when they want something for preparing small or delicate items where  a full-size chef's knife is overkill.
don't put tons of pressure on the blade.
check out thelinks below for more information or here for my full knife  sharpening tools selection.
update: as of 2009 i am now using my10" fine ceramic hone on all my knives and have all but retired my trusty old steel.
and again, if you do need to touch up your blade (which is normal), go slowly and avoid the theatrics of swiping the blade over the steel in a swash-buckling manner like you'll sometimes see tv chefs do when in full "performance" mode.
- secondary knife: a small paring knife for fruit and vegetable peeling, paring, slicing and other small jobs, and a utility knife.
in terms of care, try to wash your knife as soon as possible after use (never leave it in a sink with dirty dishes), dry it and then put it back safely in a proper knife block or magnetic strip, and not in a drawer where it'll bang around or where someone could stick their hand in by accident.
top picks: i prefer small/short paring knives, so i like the small size and razor-sharp edge of the wusthof 3.5" paring knives (all lines)
don't  put your knifes in the dishwasher, and don't use abrasives or chemicals to  clean them.
the 8" chef's  knife is certainly still the best-selling size, but if you're a professional  chef or culinary school student or if you already have a santoku and want  something bigger to complement it, then it can make sense to move up to a  9" or 10" (or 240mm/9.5" in the case of japanese knives) chef's  knife.
take your time,  remembering to always keep your fingers of the guiding hand (not holding the  knife) tucked inwards, away from the blade, and your thumb tucking in behind  your fingers and not sticking out as most of us do without thinking!
andsakai takayuki 3.2" paring knives-- it's a knife you'll see professional chefs use a lot when they want something for preparing small or delicate items where a full-size chef's knife is overkill.
the slicers and bread knives i sell are all fine for the job, with nice thin and sharp blades, which make short work of crusty bread or meats.
, or if you want the control and quality that only a stone and hand sharpening can give you, go forjapanese water stones, or for a stone-style edge but with ultimate angle control, the stone-basededge pro system gives you the quality and control of hand sharpening on a stone, combined with the control over angles of a machine (this is also the best choice if you have both japanese and german knives, since you can change the angle).
if you like the look and it's not much more money, then fine (i'll admin, they do look kind of cool!), but i wouldn't let dimples affect my decision on a particular knife purchase .
my recommendations above.
fact: dimples do not reduce "suction" and "sticking" like some people and sellers claim -- it's really just about reducing friction: since there is less material for the food to contact with as it passes the cutting edge, theoretically you should be able to get paper thin slices a bit more easily.
yes, it's shorter, but in a way it's  really a more versatile knife, capable of dealing with all kinds of breads and  other crusty items, including roast meats, veggies, etc.
but a good chef just needs a good sharp knife and a little practice to get precise and thin slices, not gimmicks.
i import knives direct from japan, so you're not paying another middle-man.
slicer (also called carving knife): if you like to  purchase and prepare larger cuts of meat yourself (whole chickens, etc.), then  a slicer/carving knife is a great knife to have.
and so i'm very proud and happy to make these incredible knives available to my fellow canadians at truly fair every-day discounted prices!
this is the same sort of steel included in all "sets" and in 99% of the kitchen stores out there, but in a more versatile 10" length for sharpening longer chef's knives.
powerex charger info - maha powerex battery info - shipping information - order help - return policy - privacy policy - terms & conditions special - search for events - special offers - sitemap - products map stay connected for discounts, deals & sales alerts!
do you the favour either.
you'll often hear from these "experts" (they're usually simply business-people -- importers/distributors -- not knife makers, experts or even chefs) that you can't use a steel on a japanese knife, or that a steel will "ruin" a japanese knife edge somehow, and so they sell you their junky drag-through systems with carbide that just tear up the edge of the knife.
a truly great knife, that i everyone is  thrilled with.
please enable javascript in your web browser.
now that i've gotten used to the ceramic, well, i just like how consistent and gentle it is... read on... - ceramic honing rods: much has been said about ceramic and steel honing rods by ill-informed north-american japanese knife distributors and importers.
mind you, i also  use a steel on global and other knives, and it works fine for me (with a gentle  touch!).
sharpening: sharpening knives is probably the only thing that arouses more passions, opinions and dogma than buying and using the knives themselves!
and if you don't want to bother with stones and want  something with some actual abrasion to help when the edge really starts to get  worn (this can take as long as a year or more at home, if you use your fine  hone regularly!)
that's really too small to be useful for slicing larger loaves or artisan-bakery bread, or even for doing pretty common baking jobs like slicing cake layers.
i find myself using mine all the time when i'm dealing with something with a crusty edge that i need to get through without crushing a delicate interior.
- dimples: since so many people ask: in my opinion, dimples (a "granton" edge) on a santoku or chef's knife do nothing (or very little at least).
i find myself using mine all the time when i'm dealing with something  with a crusty edge that i need to get through without crushing a delicate  interior.
i personally think that some knives with a ground edge (most german  knives) can keep that nice "bite" in their edge better with a  traditional steel (metal), but the difference can be subtle.
a slicer/carving knife is a great knife to have.
razor sharp and versatile -- a super choice for home cooks: trust me,  you'll never go back to the old chef's knife style once you switch to a santoku  and learn to appreciate the smaller size and increased versatility of the blade  shape.
or again, if you're thinking of trying a japanese knife because you want something lighter and thinner than a german knife but prefer a traditional shape, the misono molybdenum and ux10 chef's knives are light, strong, and an abolute pleasure to own and use.
go slowly,  maintain a precise and steady angle (which is why you should take your time!),  and check the blade frequently so you don't do more than necessary to restore  the edge.
, or if you want the control and quality that only a stone and hand sharpening  can give you, go forjapanese water stones, or for a stone-style edge but with  ultimate angle control, the stone-basededge pro system gives you the quality  and control of hand sharpening on a stone, combined with the control over  angles of a machine (this is also the best choice if you have both japanese and  german knives, since you can change the angle).
this might have been fine to restore some semblance of an  edge on your old knives, but it can seriously junk the razor-sharp and  precisely-ground edge on your new japanese knife, so don't just go at it, and  don't let your well-meaning friend or family member (why does it always seem to  be a brother-in-law?!?)
thesakai takayuki japanese-made  damascus santokus are now my best-selling santokus, and they are very sharp and  high quality, and an incredible value if you love that damascus look (and who  doesn't!)
thetakayuki 5.3" utility knife is very good-looking and an excellent performer at a great price -- my #1 most popular such utility knife now, and very handy for smaller slicing/dicing jobs like onion, ginger and garlic.
then go for a professional size for serious kitchen action: consider the  larger 10" (260mm)
i love the new classic ikon and would definitely choose that model if i had to pick one today.
i carry the longer wusthof fillet knives which are more useful and versatile than the short fillet knives more retail outlets carry (why are people scared of long knives?!?)
the trick is to simply use it regularly --
this  is what you'll probably end up using 90% of the time in your everyday home or  professional kitchen.
everything ships from my montreal-area location, so there are no cross-border delays and headaches, no duty, brokerage fees, or service/warranty hassles!
similarly, a 4-5" "utility knife" is also a great second knife choice if you already have some paring knives that are doing the trick.
home :: knife information knife information discount canadian prices, great service & fast shipping from canada on top-rated knives from around the world i work hard to bring in the best knives i can find, so my fellow canadians can have easy access to high quality knives and accessories from around the world.
popular with men and women, it's great for just about any cooking style.
or if you want the incredible performance of a real carbon steel (not stainless) blade, don't miss the incrediblemoritaka knives available in all the most popular sizes.
and my newall-in-one real japanese waterstone is fantastic if you want the ultimate in old-school versatility and quality!
and of course you just know you're paying too much if there isn't the ever-present "big 20% off sale" sign in the window.
what should you order?
so keep in mind that a sharp knife is a safe knife, because it allows for more precise control and effortless slicing, chopping and cutting, resulting in fewer opportunities for slippage and accidental mishandling.
wusthof cook's models (all professional-level knives), or a 9.5" japanese knife, like the top-of-the-line misono ux10 or one of the many excellentsakai takayuki models.
sakai takayuki knives misono knives chroma knives chinese cleavers / chef's knives wenger knives i used to find it frustrating to see the same low-end lines of "brand-name" knives and accessories at my local kitchen shops.
sharpener: yes, you'll need to do a bit of regular  maintenance to keep your nice new knife razor-sharp.
now that i've gotten  used to the ceramic, well, i just like how consistent and gentle it is... read  on...
and by good, i mean big!
sharpening: sharpening knives is probably the only thing  that arouses more passions, opinions and dogma than buying and using the knives  themselves!