a guide to healthy cooking by erin · july 6, 2010 · 7  comments food, health, vitamins · tagged: cooking, diet, vitamins,  weight loss many people know which foods are essentially “healthy” and  which are not.
additionally, the process one uses to cook a meal has a significant impact on the foods’ nutritional value.
posted on the my family doctor website, ovrut believes that vegetables, in general, will be reduced of some of its naturalvitamins when it is boiled rather than steamed.
similarly, it eliminates the use of oil in the cooking process, replacing it  with water.
far fewer consider the impact that food preparation has on the nutritional value of food and its implications for long term health.
this technique requires cooking foods at high temperatures in  fat.
no nutrients go to waste!
i’m going to upgrade my cookware to certified ceramics and glass with glazes that have no harmful additives like pigmentation, lead and such.
tips for taking health supplements december 15, 2011 ·
there are certain side effects, such as an increased  risk in developing colon and lung cancer, associated with eating grilled foods,  especially in red meats.
you do your best to eat right.
can i come to your house for dinner??
you avoid it’s a challenge to eat healthy during the holidays, what with those endless parties with their huge vats of eggnog, ugh.
there are certain side effects, such as an increased risk in developing colon and lung cancer, associated with eating grilled foods, especially in red meats.
when you heat food in any type of pot or cookware, there is a tendency for  the materials from which the pot is made to enter the food.
issues range from destruction of food nutrients,  to adding unhealthy saturated fats and cholesterol, to exposure to cancer  causing agents such as acrylamide and increased risks for weight gain and heart  disease.
and the longer the vegetables are cooked, the more nutritional value is lost,” she explained.
and the longer the vegetables are cooked, the more  nutritional value is lost,” she explained.
one popular alternative technique is grilling.
an article titled why steaming vegetables is healthier than boiling by registered dietitian janel ovrut, ms rd has also confirmed this.
our bodies cannot synthesize them, and we must get them from b vitamins are essential for many biological functions.
posted on the my family doctor website, ovrut believes that vegetables, in  general, will be reduced of some of its naturalvitamins when it is boiled  rather than steamed.
nutrients are substances we need to live and grow.
you do your best  to eat right.
the list of potential health issues associated with preparing foods in this manner is long.
“i steam many of the vegetables i cook in my own kitchen, such as snow and snap peas, greens and artichokes.
unfortunately, one of the most popular food preparation techniques is deep frying.
issues range from destruction of food nutrients, to adding unhealthy saturated fats and cholesterol, to exposure to cancer causing agents such as acrylamide and increased risks for weight gain and heart disease.
no comments nutrients are substances we need to live and grow.
it’s pretty disgusting to know that every meal we eat has a little bit of the “pan” in it.
not surprisingly, these are also the techniques that best facilitateweight loss.
no comments good food is not only the cornerstone of a healthy diet, it does wonders  for your mental health as well.
it’s important to observe safe grilling methods to minimize them.
when it comes to eating a healthy diet, in addition to making wise choices about which foods to eat, it is equally important to consider how best to cook them.
when you heat food in any type of pot or cookware, there is a tendency for the materials from which the pot is made to enter the food.
fortunately for everyone, basic cooking techniques can be used to prepare food in the healthiest way possible.
all i know there is way to much salt in everything packaged you buy.
sunday 01 april 2012 many people know which foods are essentially “healthy” and which are not.
while grilling is seen as a healthy alternative to frying, it should still be practiced with caution.
while  grilling is seen as a healthy alternative to frying, it should still be  practiced with caution.
when you cook using them, you inadvertently end up contaminating your food with small amounts of the material from which they are made.
it does not require that any type of oil be used, thus it avoids adding extra and unwanted fat.
you avoid how to survive the holidays without crashing your diet december 13,  2011 ·
i guess it’s no different than knowing that indigenous peoples who grind grain with stone implements wear down their teeth due to the small bits of stone and sand that ends up in the meal.
he warns, however, that  “boiling tender vegetables will result in the loss of some of their  nutrients in the cooking water.”
no  comments you’ve decided to get serious about getting healthy.
stop eating deep-fried foods.
i’m glad to see an article like this validating what i’ve been practicing for quite some time now.
“many of the nutrients in vegetables can leach into the water when boiled.
you should avoid eating burnt or charred meat, as they contain carcinogens that exacerbate cancer risks.
steaming uses little energy, creates a minimum of mess and does the least damage to the nutrients in vegetables,” he said.
but when it comes to vegetables with thicker surfaces such as corn on the  cob and potatoes, he tends to put them in the boiler.
far fewer consider the impact that food preparation has on  the nutritional value of food  and its implications for long term health.
do yourself a favor.
the truth is, that certain cooking techniques (like steaming) are simply “more healthy” than others.
according to american author and physician dr. andrew weil, md, he prefers  to steam and boil vegetables.
delicious and satisfying  meals without the guilt are always a perfect match for a healthy and  well-balanced diet.
delicious and satisfying meals without the guilt are always a perfect match for a healthy and well-balanced diet.
my husband and i have made a few simple changes over the last 3 years and both of us are 50 pounds lighter.
i never cared on choosing what type of cookware should i use before..
to minimize risks from cookware contamination, you should follow a few simple rules: - don’t store or cook foods for long periods in aluminum cookware - don’t store highly acidic foods, like tomato-based sauces in any metal container - do not use ceramics, enamel, and glass containers unless they are certified - do not put any item or container in a microwave unless it is certified for such use - do not use silicone cookware at temperatures above 220°c (428°f)
you exercise regularly.
we try to concentrate on eating a rainbow of vegetables and fruits daily it seems to me that it’s not just that you eat healthy.
steaming uses little energy, creates a minimum of mess and does the least  damage to the nutrients in vegetables,” he said.
to minimize risks from cookware contamination, you should  follow a few simple rules: - don’t store or cook foods for long periods in aluminum cookware - don’t store highly acidic foods, like tomato-based sauces in any metal  container - do not use ceramics, enamel, and glass containers unless they  are certified - do not put any item or container in a microwave unless it  is certified for such use - do not use silicone cookware at temperatures  above 220°c (428°f)
fortunately for everyone, basic  cooking techniques can be used to prepare food in the healthiest way possible.
aluminum,  iron, stainless steel, copper and ceramics are all popular materials for  manufacturing cookware.
share and enjoy: the basic food groups plus the benefits of resveratrol december 26,  2011 ·
the list of potential health issues associated with preparing foods  in this manner is long.
he warns, however, that “boiling tender vegetables will result in the loss of some of their nutrients in the cooking water.”
additionally, the process one uses to cook a meal has a significant impact  on the foods’ nutritional value.
“get  back those leached nutrients by using the water in a soup, sauce or  stew,” she advised.
you should avoid eating burnt or charred meat, as they  contain carcinogens that exacerbate cancer risks.
no comments it’s a challenge to eat healthy during the holidays, what with those  endless parties with their huge vats of eggnog, tweet this post
the truth is, that certain cooking techniques (like steaming) are  simply “more healthy” than others.
this is interesting, good to know that some cookwares cause some harm to foods that we cooked..
the breakfast habit← the breakfast habit © 2010 pure and healthy blog
“get back those leached nutrients by using the water in a soup, sauce or stew,” she advised.
according to american author and physician dr. andrew weil, md, he prefers to steam and boil vegetables.
but when it comes to vegetables with thicker surfaces such as corn on the cob and potatoes, he tends to put them in the boiler.
according to a study published in the journal of the  science of food and agriculture, steaming has the highest rate of nutrient  retention in foods compared to other healthy methods.
when it comes to eating a healthy diet, in addition to making wise choices  about which foods to eat, it is equally important to consider how best to cook  them.
it is also true that certain cookware (like iron, certified ceramics, enamel and glass) transfer fewer potentially harmful materials into the foods you cook using them.
boiling is also a widely recognized diet-friendly cooking technique.
i always steam my veggies (which i love to eat with brown rice) and when i have to boil them, i save the water to make into a healthy stew.
it is also true that  certain cookware (like iron, certified ceramics, enamel and glass) transfer  fewer potentially harmful materials into the foods you cook using them.
this is all good stuff.
we have swapped out our white potatoes for sweet potatoes because they are higher on the glycemic index and it takes your body longer to burn them.
i would like to share that we no longer fry but bake, broil and grill.
according to a study published in the journal of the science of food and agriculture, steaming has the highest rate of nutrient retention in foods compared to other healthy methods.
“many of the nutrients in vegetables can leach into  the water when boiled.
as far as healthy cooking is concerned, steaming is found to be the most ideal technique of all.
“i steam many of the vegetables i  cook in my own kitchen, such as snow and snap peas, greens and artichokes.
i love all the fried and grilled stuff jocelyn, that sounds tasty!
the term “vitamin b” actually refers to a group of water-soluble vitamins good food is not only the cornerstone of a healthy diet, it does wonders for your mental health as well.
all the techniques listed above best seal the flavor and preserve the  foods’ nutritional value, minus the excessive amounts of fat or salt  commonly used to prepare typical american dishes.
similarly, it eliminates the use of oil in the cooking process, replacing it with water.
aluminum, iron, stainless steel, copper and ceramics are all popular materials for manufacturing cookware.
all the techniques listed above best seal the flavor and preserve the foods’ nutritional value, minus the excessive amounts of fat or salt commonly used to prepare typical american dishes.
you’ve decided to get serious about getting healthy.
i should be more cautious now.
our bodies cannot  synthesize them, and we must get them from easy, healthy recipes rich in vitamin b december 21, 2011 ·
ovrut does offer a tip to those who favor boiling vegetables.
thanks for the reminder!
i believe that our bodies require supplementation for proper functionality.
it’s important to observe safe grilling methods  to minimize them.
there are more healthy preparation alternatives.
this technique requires cooking foods at high temperatures in fat.
why are all the good stuff always unhealthy?
there  are more healthy preparation alternatives.
that’s a lot of “pan impurities” over the course of a decade or two
as far as healthy cooking is concerned, steaming is found to be the most  ideal technique of all.
when you cook using them, you inadvertently end  up contaminating your food with small amounts of the material from which they  are made.
the term  “vitamin b” actually refers to a group of water-soluble vitamins be happy with a feel-good, anti stress healthy diet december 19, 2011 ·
it does not require that any  type of oil be used, thus it avoids adding extra and unwanted fat.
unfortunately, one of the most popular food preparation techniques is deep  frying.
no comments b vitamins are essential for many biological functions.
because my wife and kids eat three meals a day at home.