needs careful cooking – don’t  overcook
and it still tasted delicious.
we take a familiar favourite and make it over into a healthier version.
we had a play in our test  kitchen and came up with a different – and much healthier – version  of the fry-up just by making a few small changes.
fried tomatoes: cooking in fat  adds to the kilojoule and the fat count.
fried eggs: use butter or oil and you’ll add still more fat.
needs careful cooking – don’t overcook
for more healthy tips and recipes go towww.healthyfood.co.nz back to resources make an enquiry or phone now - 0800 222 949 home | contact us | privacy policy | copyright statement | site map © 2009 vitality works ltd
just as quick as hashbrowns and much healthier – only 0.1 grams of fat.
our ex-chef designer tells us this is how they do it in many restaurants.
breakfast fry-up search - why wellness at work - why choose vitality works - how to calculate roi - workplace services overview - programmes & challenges - the official 10,000 steps® program - challenge me - team challenge - power of 3® - weight loss - the next step - boot camp - that's it i quit - smoking - health screening - my health check - executive health check - flu vaccinations - organisational wellness audit - corporate health check - workplace health audit - online health check - speakers and seminars - professor grant schofield - wellness seminars - workplace nutrition - wellness expos - employee wellness newsletter - wellness portal - stress & resiliency - workshop - seminar series - dvd - leadership extreme makeover:
traditional fry-up: streaky bacon: can be up to 1/4 fat.
for more healthy tips and recipes go towww.healthyfood.co.nz back to resources or phone now - 0800 222 949 home   |   contact us   |   privacy policy   |    copyright statement   |   site map     © 2009 vitality works ltd
oven baked cubed potatoes: cut a potato into 1cm  cubes and bake with a light spray of oil in a hot oven.
or it’ll be leathery.
oven baked cubed potatoes: cut a potato into 1cm cubes and bake with a light spray of oil in a hot oven.
oven-roasted tomatoes: add these to the dish when you cook the potatoes and they’ll be collapsing and sweet by the time they come out.
total kj:  1515 (17% of daily energy)  total fat 16.1g (4g saturated fat) © reproduced with permission fromhealthy food guide magazine.
breakfast fry-up author: nikki bezzant back to resources
we had a play in our test kitchen and came up with a different – and much healthier – version of the fry-up just by making a few small changes.
microwave eggs: scramble or poach eggs in the microwave and  you don’t have to add any fat at all.
for scrambled, just cook beaten egg  in a bowl for around 2 minutes on medium, then break up with a fork.
just as quick as  hashbrowns and much healthier – only 0.1 grams of fat.
total fat 47g (22g saturated fat) hfg version:
but did you ever stop to think about the energy and fat that’s hiding in that stack of bacon?
it’s a favourite weekend meal; the breakfast fry-up.
wellness - programmes and services - video room - resources - news & events - contact us resources » extreme makeover:
but did you ever stop to think about the energy and  fat that’s hiding in that stack of bacon?
dansk bacon: has only 3% fat and half the kilojoules.
total kj: 1515 (17% of daily energy)
total fat 16.1g (4g saturated fat) © reproduced with permission fromhealthy food guide magazine.
for scrambled, just cook beaten egg in a bowl for around 2 minutes on medium, then break up with a fork.
it’s a favourite weekend  meal; the breakfast fry-up.
total  kj: 2375 (26% of daily energy)  total fat 47g (22g saturated fat) hfg version: dansk bacon: has only  3% fat and half the kilojoules.
microwave eggs: scramble or poach eggs in the microwave and you don’t have to add any fat at all.
total kj: 2375 (26% of daily energy)
hash  browns: 530kj and 5.7g of fat per serving; but wait – on  checking the pack we discover a serving is only one hash brown!
hash browns: 530kj and 5.7g of fat per serving; but wait – on checking the pack we discover a serving is only one hash brown!
oven-roasted tomatoes: add these to the dish when you cook  the potatoes and they’ll be collapsing and sweet by the time they come  out.
but the taste is just as good.
our  ex-chef designer tells us this is how they do it in many restaurants.
as at 29 february 2012 - home - our people - why workplace
author: nikki bezzant back to resources we take a familiar favourite and  make it over into a healthier version.
fried tomatoes: cooking in fat adds to the kilojoule and the fat count.