copyright © 2008 biogro products l.l.c. / yournaturestore.com all rights reserved this material may not be copied, published to other media or rewritten in any form without written permission.
a stir fry sauce can be as simple as a low heat combination of braggs  aminos or organic soy sauce with ginger, garlic, maybe a dash of fish sauce or  chili sauce, a touch of stevia, and if you like it thick add a bit of
click here just pay shipping: $2.95 out of stock articles library newsletter archive ph lifestyle cleansing & juicing support products tips & shortcuts recipes food/drink diy test kits waterfacts faq's phbb links, rebates, & coupons biogro products l.l.c. c/o yournaturestore.com springfield, ky 40069
if you don't have a steamer, you can use a pot, add a wire colander, fill with water to the bottom of the colander, toss in veges (hardest at bottom), bring to a boil (add real salt, celtic salt), cover with a lid, turn to simmer and let go for 8-15 minutes depending on quantity and hardness.
prepare fresh or dry pasta in the usual way, however, add lots of  vegetables in the last few minutes (fresh broccoli for example, 3 minutes  before pasta is ready, however, organic frozen, only 1 minute before pasta is  ready).
bake/lower heat broil (less oil, more taste) rub 1/4 - 1/2 inch sliced vegetables in avocado oil and sprinkle with your favorite spices - turn 1/2 way through (time determined by vege) - sweet, gold and red potatoes are great this way, as is egg plant, carrots, root veges, onion, green beans, just about anything.
use of this site signifies your agreement to the terms of service.
a stir fry sauce can be as simple as a low heat combination of braggs aminos or organic soy sauce with ginger, garlic, maybe a dash of fish sauce or chili sauce, a touch of stevia, and if you like it thick add a bit of arrowroot powder (usually used to thicken fruit, and found in every seasoning aisle).
separately you can add cherry tomatoes to your colander and when you  drain the pasta and veges the hot water will just be enough to make those  tomatoes pop in your mouth, bringing fresh and alive color to any pasta dish.
in the end add a cup or more of vege broth, let it  get hot and toss in lots and lots of diced tomatoes with ground salt and pepper  - serve immediately!
fusion food eating a raw with cooked, or layering raw with cooked is a great way to increase vegetable enzymes and help your digestion.
a great italian sauce done alkalarian: add olive oil, garlic and onion until onions run clear, then add, oregano, basil, peppers, (etc., to a skillet just as you would start a traditional marinara, minus tomatoes).
you can intermittently  add the spices you like, a splash of sauce or seasoning, and always remember  real salt or celtic salt and freshly ground pepper.
in a separate bowl toss fresh baby spinach with lemon juice, olive oil with ground salt and pepper, dress the plate and put the pasta on top.
prepare fresh or dry pasta in the usual way, however, add lots of vegetables in the last few minutes (fresh broccoli for example, 3 minutes before pasta is ready, however, organic frozen, only 1 minute before pasta is ready).
steam (much healthier than boiling) steaming is a fantastic way to slightly or evenly cook food without losing  all of the plant energy, taste, and nutrition.
this is great served over basmati rice (make it with 1/2 coconut milk, 1/2 water and a dollop or 2 of coconut oil).
phone: 859 336 3246 fax: 859 336 3659 stir fry (less oil, more taste)
consult your physician before beginning or making any changes in your diet,  supplements or exercise program, for diagnosis and treatment of illness or  injuries, and for advice regarding medications.
arrowroot  powder (usually used to thicken fruit, and found in every seasoning aisle).
a great italian sauce done alkalarian: add olive oil, garlic and onion until onions run clear, then add, oregano,  basil, peppers, (etc., to a skillet just as you would start a traditional  marinara, minus tomatoes).
this is not medical advice and is  not intended to replace the advice or attention of health care professionals.
frying pan, skillet, or wok (about 350 - 375) use a high heat oil (2-3t) toss in your chopped veges, hardest vege first, and keep them moving in the hot oil, every 2 minutes, add the next vege type, in order of hard to soft until all the veges are added.
krey fda disclaimer: these statements have not been evaluated by the food and drug administration and these products are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any disease.
*ph tips & shortcuts plus free report* free sign up now!
chewing more and helping your digestion is a definite plus when it comes to eating healthier!
separately you can add cherry tomatoes to your colander and when you drain the pasta and veges the hot water will just be enough to make those tomatoes pop in your mouth, bringing fresh and alive color to any pasta dish.
in a separate bowl toss fresh baby spinach with lemon juice, olive oil with  ground salt and pepper, dress the plate and put the pasta on top.
stir fry (less oil, more taste) frying pan, skillet, or wok (about 350 - 375) use a high heat oil (2-3t) toss in your chopped veges, hardest vege first,  and keep them moving in the hot oil, every 2 minutes, add the next vege type,  in order of hard to soft until all the veges are added.
you can intermittently add the spices you like, a splash of sauce or seasoning, and always remember real salt or celtic salt and freshly ground pepper.
use of this site signifies your agreement  to the terms of service.
adding ginger, garlic, and  herbs, is a great health addition.
bake/lower heat broil (less oil, more  taste) rub 1/4 - 1/2 inch sliced vegetables in avocado oil and sprinkle with your  favorite spices - turn 1/2 way through (time determined by vege) - sweet, gold  and red potatoes are great this way, as is egg plant, carrots, root veges,  onion, green beans, just about anything.
this is not medical advice and is not intended to replace the advice or attention of health care professionals.
"let's not "substitute" but let us "replace" with better tasting foods and drinks that are better for you, and most importantly, provide better results!"maraline
consult your physician before beginning or making any changes in your diet, supplements or exercise program, for diagnosis and treatment of illness or injuries, and for advice regarding medications.
in the end add a cup or more of vege broth, let it get hot and toss in lots and lots of diced tomatoes with ground salt and pepper - serve immediately!
a simple sauce can be to whisk olive or avocado oil into fresh lemon juice and once emulsified, add vege broth and spices - yum-o.
(sesame oil and a good cold pressed wok oil work nicely as well) adding fresh ginger to stir fry helps digestion, garlic and onions are also very healthy additions!
this is great served over basmati rice (make it with 1/2 coconut milk, 1/2  water and a dollop or 2 of coconut oil).
a simple sauce can be to whisk olive or avocado oil into fresh lemon juice  and once emulsified, add vege broth and spices - yum-o.
"let's not "substitute" but let us  "replace" with better tasting foods and drinks that are better for  you, and most importantly, provide better results!"maraline krey contact us fda disclaimer: these statements have not been evaluated  by the food and drug administration and these products are not intended to  diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any disease.
this is great served with broiled or baked fish - easy bake is to dip fish  in lemon water/soy milk, coconut milk, or egg mixture, and then dip in a 50/50  combination of panko (japanese bread crumbs) and shredded coconut, and bake on  a tray at 425 for about 20 minutes.
click here for more sauce ideas!
chewing more and helping your digestion is a  definite plus when it comes to eating healthier!
fusion food eating a raw with cooked, or layering raw with cooked is a great way to  increase vegetable enzymes and help your digestion.
get on maraline's e-zine list! alkalize & energize!
steam (much healthier than boiling) steaming is a fantastic way to slightly or evenly cook food without losing all of the plant energy, taste, and nutrition.
this is great served with broiled or baked fish - easy bake is to dip fish in lemon water/soy milk, coconut milk, or egg mixture, and then dip in a 50/50 combination of panko (japanese bread crumbs) and shredded coconut, and bake on a tray at 425 for about 20 minutes.
copyright © 2008 biogro products l.l.c. / yournaturestore.com all  rights reserved this material may not be copied, published to other media or rewritten in  any form without written permission.
pasta (with veges - a much healthier alternative)
if you don't have a steamer, you  can use a pot, add a wire colander, fill with water to the bottom of the  colander, toss in veges (hardest at bottom), bring to a boil (add real salt,  celtic salt), cover with a lid, turn to simmer and let go for 8-15 minutes  depending on quantity and hardness.
(sesame oil and a good cold  pressed wok oil work nicely as well) adding fresh ginger to stir fry helps digestion, garlic and onions are also  very healthy additions!
site designed by: your web developer
adding ginger, garlic, and herbs, is a great health addition.