eating for health can be applied by identifying the main food items or ingredients in the composite dish or meal and thinking about how these fit in with the proportions suggested and by altering the proportions, e.g. serving slightly smaller portions of the main dishes with extra fruit, vegetables or bread.
easy ways to cut down on fat in food preparation include: 11.
many  suppliers have responded to the increasing demand for healthier ingredients,  which are now easier to find.
the model applies to catering for most people over the age of 5 years, including those who are overweight, vegetarians and people of all ethnic groups.
for most people: a third of total food intake should be made up of starchy foods (e.g.  bread, pasta, rice and potatoes).
in summary, the key to healthier catering is to: make small but significant changes to best selling items increase the amount of starchy foods increase the amount of fruit and vegetables increase the fibre content of dishes where practical and acceptable reduce fat in traditional recipes change the type of fat used select healthier ways to prepare dishes be moderate in the use of sugar and salt.
recommended portion size (grams/mls) for 5-11 year olds recommended portion size (grams/mls) for 12-18 year olds cooked vegetables including peas, green beans, sweetcorn, carrots, mixed vegetables, cauliflower, broccoli, swede, turnip, leek, brussel sprouts, cabbage, spinach, spring greens 40-60 80 raw vegetables or mixed salad 40-60 80 baked beans in tomato sauce 70-100 140 coleslaw (served together with a mixed salad) 30-40 60 vegetable-based soup 170-220 300 medium-size fruit, e.g. apples, pears, bananas, peaches, oranges half to one fruit (50-100 g) one fruit (100 g) small-size fruit, e.g. satsumas, tangerines, plums, apricots, kiwis one-two fruits (50-100 g) two fruits (100 g) very small fruits, e.g. grapes, cherries, strawberries, raspberries, blackberries half to one cupful (50-100 g) one cupful (100 g) dried fruit, e.g. raisins, sultanas, apricots half to one tablespoonful (10-20 g) one tablespoonful (20 g) fruit salad, fruit tinned in juice and stewed fruit (at least 80% of the weight should come from fruit) 65-130 130 fruit juice 150 150 group 3(milk and milk products) recommended portion size (grams/mls) for 5-11 year olds recommended portion size (grams/mls) for 12-18 year olds drinking milk 200 300 milk puddings and whips made with milk 150-200 240 custard (served with fruit for example)
in england the equivalent model, thebalance of good health, was developed in 1994 by the health local authority, department of health and ministry of agriculture, fisheries and food.
listen eating for health 1.
healthier catering for children means: choosing healthier ingredients 8.
100 140 yoghurts 100-125 125-150 cheese (served in a salad, baked potato, sandwich or with biscuits) 30-40 50 macaroni cheese 150-215 300 cheese sauce for use with composite dishes 70-95 120 group 4(meat, fish and alternatives) recommended portion size (grams/mls) for 5-11 year olds recommended portion size (grams/mls) for 12-18 year olds all dishes containing meat which are allowed at any time (e.g. stew, casserole, curry, tikka, sweet and sour) will have a minimum raw meat content of (this weight may be reduced proportionately in composite dishes if adding another protein based food such as beans/tvp/cheese/milk) 50-60 80 sausages: beef, lamb, pork, lorne (raw weight) 60-80 120 haggis 60-80 120 scotch pies, bridies, sausage rolls, cornish pasty, encased meat pastry pies, quiche, cold pork pie (e.g. melton mowbray)
it is nationally recognised and widely used by the food and catering industries as well as by health professionals, teachers and individual consumers, as a guide to the contents of a balanced meal or diet.
80 110 lasagne, ravioli, canneloni 150-215 300 breaded or battered shaped chicken and turkey products, e.g. nuggets, goujons, burgers 60-80 120 meat-based soup 170-220 300 pizza 80-120 160 all dishes containing fish and shellfish which are allowed at any time (e.g. pie with potato topping, casserole, curry, sweet and sour) will have a minimum raw fish content of (this weight may be reduced proportionately in composite dishes if adding another protein-based food such as beans/cheese/milk) 50-60 80 breaded or battered fish portions or products, e.g. fish cakes, fish fingers, fish goujons, fish shapes 60-80 120 fish or shellfish such as tuna, salmon, mackerel and prawns, served in a salad, baked potato or sandwich 30-40 50 egg served in a salad, baked potato or sandwich 1 egg 1-2 eggs vegetarian sausages, burger, nut cutlets 60-80 120 vegetarian stew, curry, tikka, sweet and sour 50-60 80 note: composite dishes using the caterer's own recipes, such as home-made pies, pasta bakes, lasagne, spaghetti bolognese, stew, should supply the equivalent amount of meat, poultry, fish or vegetarian alternative per portion.
recent research indicates that currently children in  britain are eating less than half the recommended five portions of fruit and  vegetables each day, too many foods high in saturates, sugar and salt, too few  foods containing fibre and are not doing enough physical activity (national  diet and nutrition survey: young people aged 4-18 years (2000)).
(adapted from catering for health produced by the food standards  agency scotland and the scottish executive health department.)
the choice of commodities can have a significant effect  on the nutritional content and the balance of meals and foodstuffs.
eating for health shows the proportion of the  overall diet that should come from each of the five food groups in order to  provide enough of the important nutrients (such as vitamins, minerals and  protein) and fibre without too much fat (especially saturates) and sugar.
recent research indicates that currently children in britain are eating less than half the recommended five portions of fruit and vegetables each day, too many foods high in saturates, sugar and salt, too few foods containing fibre and are not doing enough physical activity (national diet and nutrition survey: young people aged 4-18 years (2000)).
by around 5 years of age children should  be progressing towards a diet based on the principles ofeating for health .
hungry children are more likely to snack on high fat and sugar confectionery.
eating for health is a useful tool for caterers in menu planning as it shows the overall balance that should be aimed for in the lunches served.
recommended portion size (grams/mls) for 5-11 year olds recommended portion size (grams/mls) for 12-18 year olds crisps or corn snacks 25 25 fruit pies, sponge puddings or crumbles 90-130 145 cakes, muffins, sponges, fairy cakes, scones, sponge puddings, doughnuts, cookies, tray-bakes 40-50 65 ice cream 60-80 100 sources of calcium, folate and iron calcium good sources of calcium provides some calcium milk and yoghurt broccoli, dark green leafy vegetables, turnip, carrots, cabbage, peas hard cheeses, cheese spread, soya cheese dates, sultanas, raisins, ready to eat or stewed apricots canned sardines or salmon, drained and mashed up with the bones, served perhaps as a sandwich filling, fish paste and pâtés baked squash, sweet potato ice cream wholemeal bread egg yolk mayonnaises bread, (except wholemeal), crumpets, muffins, plain and cheese scones beans, lentils, chickpeas ready to eat or stewed figs tofu (soya bean) steamed or spread soya mince soya drink with added calcium folate rich sources of folate/folic acid other good sources of folate/folic acid fresh, raw or cooked brussel sprouts, cooked black-eye beans fresh, raw, frozen and cooked broccoli, spring greens, cabbage, green beans, cauliflower, peas, bean sprouts, cooked soya beans, iceberg lettuce, parsnips, chick peas breakfast cereals (fortified with folic acid) kidneys, yeast and beef extracts liver iron good sources of iron which are well absorbed other sources of iron.
so,  only moderate amounts need to be eaten foods containing a large amount of fat or sugar should make up a  relatively small proportion of the total food and drink consumed.
labels  should be checked on pre-prepared dishes to look for lower fat and salt  varieties.
45-65 100 group 2(fruit and vegetables)
recommended portion sizes 14.
choosing healthier ingredients 8.
(if you add sources of vitamin c or meat or fish to the following foods it will help the iron to be absorbed.)
children under 5 years of age need to learn to eat  healthily, but too much emphasis on cutting down fat intake and increasing the  amount of fibre eaten is inappropriate for this age group - it can result in a  bulky diet and children may not be able to eat sufficient amounts of food to  meet their energy and nutrient needs.
dishes or meals usually contain foods from more than one of the five food groups.
pre-prepared products are available that can be cooked by one of three methods - oven bake, grill, shallow/deep fry.
whatever the type of catering  provided, the principles of balance and variety apply.
pre-prepared products are available that can be  cooked by one of three methods - oven bake, grill, shallow/deep fry.
"healthier" cooking practices to reduce fat  include: routinely grilling, steaming, stir-frying or oven baking rather than  frying or roasting with added fat dry frying or dry roasting spices skimming fat from the surfaces of liquids, including gravy, before serving sweating onions in cling film (microwaveable) in a microwave instead of  sautéing them in oil avoid letting food sit in fat when roasting or oven cooking by roasting on  a rack or trivet and grilling on a rack rather than a flat oven tray creating soups and sauces from puréed vegetables or reductions  instead of roux thickenings not enriching with butter using a thin batter for fish or oven baking pre-coated products using a whisked sponge method or mix for puddings instead of the creamed  method not tossing items (e.g. pasta) in butter but use a small amount of oil to  prevent bulk quantities from sticking.
it is nationally recognised and widely used by the food and catering industries  as well as by health professionals, teachers and individual consumers, as a  guide to the contents of a balanced meal or diet.
recommended portion size (grams/mls) for 5-11 year olds recommended portion size (grams/mls) for 12-18 year olds rice (cooked weight)
in summary, the key to healthier catering is to: 13.
what does this mean for caterers?
hungry for success - a whole school approach to sc hungry for success - a whole school approach to sc hungry for success - a whole school approach to school meals in scotland: « previous annex d practical guidance for schools and caterers eating for health 1.
people should  aim to eat at least five portions of a variety of fruit and vegetables each day meat, fish and alternatives (e.g. eggs, nuts, pulses, soya products) and  milk and dairy foods provide concentrated sources of essential nutrients.
key actions to achieve these goals are to: (adapted from catering for health produced by the food standards agency scotland and the scottish executive health department.)
whilst the choice of ingredients is very important,  several cooking methods and preparation techniques can be used to reduce the  fat content of dishes.
foods in each group provide a similar range of nutrients.
group 1 (bread, other cereals and potatoes)
eating for health can be applied by  identifying the main food items or ingredients in the composite dish or meal  and thinking about how these fit in with the proportions suggested and by  altering the proportions, e.g. serving slightly smaller portions of the main  dishes with extra fruit, vegetables or bread.
the model applies to catering for most people over the  age of 5 years, including those who are overweight, vegetarians and people of  all ethnic groups.
key actions to achieve these goals are to: make starchy foods (e.g. rice, pasta, bread, potatoes) a main part of most  meals offer a good selection of fruit and incorporate it into dishes, where  practical and acceptable offer fibre-rich varieties of bread and cereals include plenty of pulses and vegetables in dishes use lower fat cooking methods and ingredients reduce the amount and alter the types of fat used in food preparation use fewer fats that contain a high proportion of saturates by substituting  these with fats and oils with a high content of unsaturates, where possible use salt and salty foods in moderation use added sugar in moderation.
this section provides guidance on the appropriate  portion sizes necessary to assist caterers in planning meals, which meet  nutrient standards for energy and other nutrients as well as to satisfy young  appetites.
easy ways to cut down on fat in food preparation  include: trimming visible fat from meat removing the skin and fat from poultry before cooking or serving (except  for roasts) preparing lower fat vinaigrette dressings.
hungry children are more likely to snack on high fat and sugar  confectionery.
dishes or meals usually contain foods from more than  one of the five food groups.
healthier catering for children means: offering child-size portions of a variety of meals, not just a range of  fried favourites offering foods from the food groups fruit and vegetables limiting fat-rich foods such as sausages, burgers, pies, crisps, chips or  other fried food for young children, offering small fruits and yoghurts which are usually  popular not offering too many sugar rich foods and drinks offering milk, unsweetened fruit juice and water limiting the amount of salt added to foods.
many suppliers have responded to the increasing demand for healthier ingredients, which are now easier to find.
foods in each group provide a similar range of  nutrients.
by around 5 years of age children should be progressing towards a diet based on the principles ofeating for health .
eating for health is a useful tool for  caterers in menu planning as it shows the overall balance that should be aimed  for in the lunches served.
the initials tvp refer to the meat substitute, texturised vegetable protein.
eating for health was developed as a model for  healthy eating in scotland by the health education board for scotland in 1996.
reducing the fat content 9.
in england the equivalent  model, thebalance of good health, was developed in 1994 by the health  local authority, department of health and ministry of agriculture, fisheries  and food.
whatever the type of catering provided, the principles of balance and variety apply.
whilst the choice of ingredients is very important, several cooking methods and preparation techniques can be used to reduce the fat content of dishes.
eating for health was developed as a model for healthy eating in scotland by the health education board for scotland in 1996.
recommended portion size (grams/mls) for 5-11 year olds recommended portion size (grams/mls) for 12-18 year olds rice (cooked weight) 80-120 180 pasta (cooked weight) 80-120 180 pasta canned in sauce 90-140 200 mashed potatoes, boiled potatoes, potato croquettes 90-130 190 jacket potatoes 120-170 250 chips, roast potatoes, other potato cooked in fat, e.g. potato wedges, and other processed potato products cooked in fat, such as waffles, smiles, spirals 70-100 150 bread: sliced, rolls, french stick (served instead of rice, pasta or potatoes)
the five food groups are: 3.
register to receive email news alerts, daily digest, weekly roundup or topic newsletters.
labels should be checked on pre-prepared dishes to look for lower fat and salt varieties.
the  five food groups are: bread, other cereals and potatoes fruit and vegetables foods high in fat, foods and drinks high in sugar.
eating for health shows the proportion of the overall diet that should come from each of the five food groups in order to provide enough of the important nutrients (such as vitamins, minerals and protein) and fibre without too much fat (especially saturates) and sugar.
the choice of commodities can have a significant effect on the nutritional content and the balance of meals and foodstuffs.
these foods should make up a main part of a  meal a further third should be made up from fruit and vegetables.
this section provides guidance on the appropriate portion sizes necessary to assist caterers in planning meals, which meet nutrient standards for energy and other nutrients as well as to satisfy young appetites.
lean beef, lamb, pork: roast, mince, burgers, liver breakfast cereals with added iron chicken or turkey: especially dark meat, liver breads canned sardines, pilchards, mackerel, tuna, shrimps, crab red kidney beans, haricot beans, pinto beans, lentils, chickpeas: boiled or canned sausages baked beans, peas: raw, cooked, frozen or canned fish paste and pâtés apricots, prunes, figs, peaches: ready to eat or stewed raisins, sultanas cauliflower, spring greens, broccoli, mixed vegetables page updated: wednesday, march 22, 2006
children under 5 years of age need to learn to eat healthily, but too much emphasis on cutting down fat intake and increasing the amount of fibre eaten is inappropriate for this age group - it can result in a bulky diet and children may not be able to eat sufficient amounts of food to meet their energy and nutrient needs.
"healthier" cooking practices to reduce fat include: 12.