going vegan is not something you do half way.
short grain rice has a higher percentage of amylopectin.
you don’t empathize with the animal, despite the fact that he will fight to survive in whatever situation becomes threatening to him.
now that wasn’t too difficult, was it?
that chicken wants to have a family and look  after its babies too!’
one little girl said,  ‘i think it’s mean.
we “promote” non-violence.
i don’t strain my milk.
here i was with my brand new skins.
vegans are the only ones advocating 100% for the rights of animals not to be used.
i said, i  know, but how to you think the meat comes to you?
there’s a new children’s book coming out this  week.
the legs were removed– not at the first joint– but the second.
how about recommending simple to make smoothies that are delicious and easy to digest?
it’s true, i looked it up.
you don’t want to be hurt, and you don’t want to be killed.
adults are resistant to  change.
they’re just fine.
they are not  fearful.
i said ‘i agree with you,’ and she said, completely off her own back, ‘i don’t think i want to eat animals either!’
i don’t think we give children nearly enough credit.
attitude is everything.
during the subsequent talk about what happened, children mentioned how horrible that was.
you won’t slide backward unless the slope is very steep or the snow is glossy ice, or if you don’t weight your ski properly on a steep slope.
maintain “home protection.”
the book is “teaching kids to fear  food.”
you can also incorporate it into lasagna, manicotti and more… make this large batch and portion into 1/2 cup size glass freezer jars.
you might be a little afraid, but there is nothing to fear.
if you look for deprivation you will find it.
how about recommending real food that is actually nutrient dense?
amylose is insoluble in water.
i want to see the whole pig, and admire her place on earth as a friend.
how  will they justify their own complicity in the violence?
april 29, 2012 in food porn | tags: beans, bind, broccoli, burger sauce, chickpea, chickpea pumpkin seed burgers, cholesterol free, delicious, dreena burton, egg free, healthy, horseradish, kale, legumes, let them eat vegan!, low sugar, minimal fat, oat, potato, potato chips, pumpkin seed, raw-nch dressing, romaine lettuce, vegan, vegan burger, vegetarian, veggie dip, whole plant ingredients, yukon gold | leave a comment go!
-marysville globe i like this comedy bit from ellen degeneres about hunting: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8db4ktomfok http://www.heraldnet.com/article/20120328/biz/703289893 http://www.heraldnet.com/article/20120412/sports/704129877 http://www.marysvilleglobe.com/business/148172445.html http://www.cabelas.com/browse.cmd?categoryid=112426380#feature april 30, 2012 in original recipes | tags: vegan, chickpea, vegetarian, oat, low sugar, cholesterol free, egg free, muffin, blueberry, raspberry, coffee cake ,dairy free, quinoa, millet, spelt, garbanzo bean flour, banana, non dairy milk, low fat, breakfast, coffee cake muffins | leave a comment coffee cake muffins “wet” ingredients: 2 mashed bananas 1 c non dairy milk 1 t white vinegar 1/3 c applesauce 1/3 c canola oil 1/2 c evaporated cane juice dry ingredients: *2 c mixed grain flours (use 1/3 c of each: quinoa flour, millet flour, spelt flour, garbanzo bean flour, whole wheat pastry flour & ground oats) 2 t ground flax 1/3 c unsweetened coconut shreds 1/3 c ground walnuts 2 t baking powder 2 t baking soda 1/2 t sea salt 2 t cinnamon 1/2 t ginger 1 c blueberries (fresh or frozen) 1/2 c raspberries (fresh or frozen) combine the wet ingredients with the dry ingredients and then fold in the berries.
what’s the difference between long and short grains?
at some point you’ve just got to go for it.
ruby’s young stepdaughter  indicated that her favorite food is kale.
if the purchased items fulfill their intended purposes, then liveswill be taken.
i don’t think it really matters what the frequency– the content– the delivery method– of the vegan message is.
this is not a diet – it is a beautiful way of living and the best way to honor the life in all living beings.
definition: “pushy” hmm…pushy sounds bad.
the podcast is raw vegan radio’s episode 0127 with markus rothkranz.
she had tpn (total parenteral nutrition) in the hospital, but that was removed and now she’s taking food orally.
if you think you have the courage to do so, then i can help show you how.
it’s actually the adults who can’t bear to look at graphic pictures of animal slaughter.
instead…great “concerns” were voiced by the 2 in-studio guests regarding the supposed use of “scare tactics” in the book (surrounding food as well as other issues of animal exploitation, such as animal testing.)
by widening our circle of compassion to embrace all living creatures and the whole of nature and its beauty.”
what about the effect that sugar has on cancer promotion?
it’s actually the adults who can’t bear to look at  graphic pictures of animal slaughter.
on to the nuts…pick your favorite raw nut.
check out ruby roth’s website here:  http://wedonteatanimals.com/ (picture is my copy of ruby roth’s first book, “that’s  why we don’t eat animals”)
welcome to the first day of the rest of your life.
a book about living compassionately surely needs a warning label, don’t you think?
6 cans of boost a day?
who’s afraid? april 22, 2012 in think about it | tags: vegan, ruby roth, that's why we  don't eat animals, vegan is love, compassionate, children, parents, the today  show, media, nbc, vegan parenting, kale, scare tactics, animal testing, animal  exploitation, fear, guilt, graphic, slaughter, violence, hypocrisy, indonesia |  1 comment beware!
you’ll be glad you did and you’ll be wondering what took you so long!
-pythagoras april 25, 2012 in get out & live life | tags: backcountry, climbing skins, crevasse, easton glacier, freeheel, glacier, mt baker, nature, north cascades, outdoors, park butte, scott paul trail, ski, skins, squak glacier, telemark, twin sisters, washington | leave a comment june 6, 2007 backcountry ski: scott paul trail to 7770 ft up the south side of mt baker (easton/squak glacier) april 23, 2012 in original recipes | tags: crimini, freezer jar, italian, italian mushroom saute, lasagna, manicotti, meaty, mushroom, nutritional yeast flakes, pasta, red pepper flakes, shiitake, spaghetti, vegan, vegetarian | leave a comment spaghetti can be a quick dinner requiring little more than heating spaghetti sauce & cooking pasta.
adults won’t listen to the truth about unnecessary animal exploitation.
join 21 other followers theme:
1 t vegan worcestershire sauce (i.e without anchovy) 1 t balsamic vinegar 1 t vinegar from kalamata olive jar 6 kalamata olives (pitted and minced) 2 sun-dried tomato (oil packed or dried & rehydrated; minced) 1 t red cooking wine
change must start with you.
we made some homemade potato chips!
april 16, 2012 in think about it | tags: abbott, bladder cancer, boost, breast cancer, cancer, cystectomy, doctor, eat to live, ensure, gmo, high-calorie, high-protein drink, ileostomy, joel fuhrman, joseph keon, lymph node, mastectomy, metastatic, milk protein, nature's cancer fighting foods, nestle, nutrition, ovarian cancer, physician, plant food, t.colin campbell, the china study, total parenteral nutrition, tpn, verne varona, whitewash | 1 comment
you know that your life is your own.
the dressing made for a great romaine lettuce dipand burger sauce.
you want to take the life of another, but you don’t want to have the same circumstance visited upon yourself?
world’s foremost outfitter.”
~ albert einstein april 11, 2012 in free your mind | tags: blog, facebook, heart, markus rothkranz, outreach, podcast, raw vegan radio, universe, vegan, vegetarian | 1 comment here goes my first blog post!
you assume that your belongings are secure because “what’s yours is yours.”
fear, guilt, “graphic pictures:” very scary stuff.
i’ve used gluten flour before, but i’ve never used oats.
i cooked 2 and refrigerated the other 4 patties (between layers of parchment paper in a storage container.)
a week ago, i decided to start this blog because i want my version of on-line vegan outreach to go “beyond facebook” and get out into the universe.
there is a banner displayed on the outside of the store: “personal defense & home protection.”
can’t you see the contradiction?
the skin appears pale, close to white.
let me see if i’ve got this straight: you’re the quintessential cabela’s customer.
but jarred sauce is not too exciting.
makes 9 pints…freeze ‘em up!
you don’t considerhis needs, only your own wants.
canola, soy, corn: gmo crops.
non-vegans won’t do it.
children are quite capable of recognizing  inconsistencies.
won’t children want to help animals and take action?
we also went to a local market in indonesia and one of the kids happened to see a chicken killed.
“when i die, this is where i want to go.”
holiday flavors (yum!) – pumpkin spice, chocolate peppermint, nog make your “own” milk: it’s easy to do and you needn’t endure a long pregnancy and painful delivery.
the animals may 2, 2012 in critters | tags: vegan, washington, outdoors, nature, slug, mountain biking, whistle lake, anacortes | leave a comment mountain biking – whistle lake trails, anacortes, wa – sept 18, 2010 vegans respect all life forms.
the bottom line is we have a long way to go to shift the paradigm.
it reinforced everything that the “little voice” in my head has been telling me for quite a number of months.
then, on “spaghetti night,” just thaw and heat up one jar (1/2 cup) italian mushroom saute into 1/2 jar (26 oz jar size) of vegan spaghetti sauce (serves 2).
how will they try  to convince their children that theydo care when maybe they really  don’t?
here’s how i do it… first, make sure you have a batch of cooked short grain brown rice on hand.
the china study, by t. colin campbell eat to live, by joel fuhrman, m.d. whitewash, by joseph keon april 16, 2012 in get out & live life | tags: 2002 bmw, backcountry, bmw ,climbing skins, freeheel, glacier, mt baker, mt shuksan, north cascades, ptarmigan ridge, ski, skins, telemark, washington | leave a comment backcountry ski – mt baker – july 19, 2008 april 15, 2012 in food porn | tags: chickpea, chuck e cheese, jo stepaniak, poutine, uncheese cookbook | leave a comment i’d rather go to “chick e cheez” than “chuck e cheese” any day of the week!
adults could learn a lot from children.
as the saying goes… “if i had a dollar” for every time that these hideous protein drinks are recommended in hospitals & nursing homes & assisted living facilities all over the country, then i’d be…well…a big-wig at nestle (maker of boost) or abbott (maker of ensure.)
all i have to do is go to page 38 in the ultimate uncheese cookbook, by jo stepaniak.
it seems so senseless and so unnecessary to kill animals who would have chosen life over death if given the choice.
we ask others to “enlarge” their circle of compassion to include all animals.
how did we get from the words, “urge forward / extend / promote” to “offensive” and “aggressive?”
can’t we do a whole lot better?
you won’t be disappointed.
it just took me way too long to start acting on it!
they work like this: when you glide the ski uphill– forward– the fibers run flat, but when you stop or try to slide backward the fibers “stand up” and grip the snow.
the vegan message itself is considered inherently “aggressive” in a culture where animal exploitation is ubiquitous.
here is a perfect example of what i’m talking about, written by my  vegan friend from indonesia: “i did a talk on veganism to a bunch of 7 year olds.
see the link here: raw vegan radio 0127
fearful and feeling  guilty.
honor all with whom we share the earth: four-leggeds, two-leggeds, winged ones, swimmers, crawlers, plant and rock people.
young children, in particular, naturally  consider animals their friends.
how ironic that… when you navigate the world, you want to remain comfortable.
children are inherently open-minded, curious,  and adaptable.
where animal slaughter is condoned, those who speak in protest are considered the “offensive” ones.
once you do it, you’ll see that it wasmuch easier than you thought.
are adults– parents– most of all afraid of having their own apathy exposed?
(think of those directional spikes you drive over in your car…“caution: severe tire damage!”…you can roll forward and the spikes flatten, but if you travel in reverse…yikes!
my favorite is westsoy plus plain soymilkhttp://www.westsoymilk.com/index.php.
i think the adults are the fearful ones.
won’t  children want to help animals and take action?
or, if they genuinely care, then how will they explain the hypocrisy in their actions?
by promoting veganism, we “urge” others to act with fairness toward sentient beings.
take a separate multivitamin & mineral supplement if you like.
the problem is animal exploitation.
we also went to a local market in indonesia and one of  the kids happened to see a chicken killed.
to climb uphill with skis on, you must apply “skins” to the ski bottoms.
congratulations for making a profoundly positive decision.
“this is freaking impressive,” said tyler schmidt, a 16-year-old from arlington making his first visit to a cabela’s store.
definitions: “push” so who is pushing for change?
(just make sure the beans are fully cooked if your beans were only partly cooked when you put them in the pot.)
you seek contentment.
(i don’t know if it would work with a wimpy blender!)
so how did we get from “push” to “pushy?”
i like to use brazil nuts, but sometimes i mix it up and use cashews, almonds, or hazelnuts.
children very easily grasp the basic concept of veganism,  which is about non-harming.
remember – the point of going vegan isn’t to join a “club” that follows a strict set of “rules.”
go to the non-dairy milk section of your local store and you’ll notice an ever-increasing array of plant milks:
children very easily grasp the basic concept of veganism, which is about non-harming.
soy milk, rice milk, oat milk, almond milk, hazelnut milk, hemp milk, coconut milk..even flax milk!
“why do we have to scare them?”
it’s the same concept.)
now that you’ve changed, what do you do next?
the physician’s written plan for this woman with 2 “high” grade cancers that are metastatic to lymph nodes reads: “high protein, high calorie drinks.
april 22, 2012 in think about it | tags: vegan, ruby roth, that's why we don't eat animals, vegan is love, compassionate, children, parents, the today show, media, nbc, vegan parenting, kale, scare tactics, animal testing, animal exploitation, fear, guilt, graphic, slaughter, violence, hypocrisy, indonesia | 1 comment beware!
oats work great– i think they’re my new favorite cooking ingredient!
fear, guilt, “graphic pictures:”  very  scary stuff.
i didn’t have fresh parsley so i used kale instead.
books to read: nature’s cancer fighting foods, by verne varona
when you can do better, you should do better and you better do better…right?
blog at wordpress.com.
for the human culture to stop conceptualizing animals as primarily “things to consume” is going to take a monumental push for change.
if, for example, their children reads the book elsewhere and comes home to share the cruel truths with them…what then?
yet, passionate, active, vocal vegans are frequently called “pushy.”
push at least 6 cans of boost a day.”
use wide mouth glass canning jars.
she uses primarily whole plant ingredients, plenty of beans/legumes, minimal added fats and “just enough” sweetener.
when you come home, you expect that your shelter will be undisturbed.
i’m thinking that people might have used their skis for travel and not solely for recreation in those days?
i make up a batch and freeze portions in 1/2 cup glass jam jars.
are children so fragile that they cannot handle  the truth about animal exploitation, when it is presented with gentle candor  and realistic illustrations?
they are not fearful.
get yourself a copy of dreena burton’s latest cookbook, “let them eat vegan.”
back in the days of “old,” seal skin was used.
for burger night #2 i made the raw-nch
why would they want to hurt their friends?
the good news is that non-dairy milk options are plentiful.
fortunately, the  u.s. media’s version of that label aired on friday, april 20th on  nbc’s the today show.
ensure (chocolate) nutrition shake: water corn maltodextrin sugar (sucrose) corn syrup milk protein concentrate cocoa powder soy oil soy protein isolate canola oil less than 0.5% of: corn oil/flavors/colors/soy lecithin/carrageenan/multivitamin/minerals
the answer is in the percentage of the starches amylose and amylopectin.
tags: albert einstein, backcountry, beauty, compassion, creature, freeheel, mt baker, nature, north cascades, scott paul trail, ski, squak glacier, telemark, washington | 2 comments backcountry ski – south side, mt baker – june 2, 2007 “our task must be to free ourselves . . .
bake in muffin liners for about 22 minutes at 350 degrees.
neither would they be salted and smoked and preserved in hot vinegar, put in jars…called “pigs feet.”
i simply shake, then pour.
but who is really afraid of this stuff?
fearful and feeling guilty.
you must use short grain rice!
i said ‘i agree with you,’ and  she said, completely off her own back, ‘i don’t think i want to eat  animals either!’
that chicken wants to have a family and look after its babies too!’
check out ruby roth’s website here: http://wedonteatanimals.com/ (picture is my copy of ruby roth’s first book, “that’s why we don’t eat animals”) april 20, 2012 in think about it | tags: vegan, washington, push, pushy, veganism, change, paradigm, non-violence, passionate, compassion, vegetarian, animal rights, aggressive, circus, ringling, protest, everett, comcast arena | leave a comment
the solution is veganism.
to hear the guests speak, you’d think that  ruby’s book will scar children for life: “there is so much fear in this book.”
depending on the moisture level of the berries (i.e. if using thawed frozen berries) and the size of the bananas, add another 1/4 – 1/3 c flour (wheat or oat) if the batter seems too thin.
my necklace reads “friend, not food.”
i love eric’s commentary.
instead…great “concerns” were voiced by the 2 in-studio  guests regarding the supposed use of “scare tactics” in the book  (surrounding food as well as other issues of animal exploitation, such as  animal testing.)
sorry, i don’t get it.
in a large saute pan, heat the oil on medium heat and gradually add the ingredients in the following order: it’s done when the mushrooms are cooked and the liquid is reduced.
continuing to use the word “skin” is kind of icky, but it’s a good reminder of how times change even though words tend to persist.
the book is “teaching kids to fear food.”
it makes no sense to me whatsoever.
is it really the children?
you will defend yourself against threats to your safety and the safety of your family.
living, breathing pigs who are individuals just like you and me.
“walk through the main door and look up to see two mounted orcas chasing a school of chinook.”
the resulting milk will be creamy without a gritty sediment =
long grain rice has a higher percentage of amylose.
“vegan is love” gently asks young readers to take personal responsibility in the form of taking actions that help make the world a better place for animals.
so jump into veganism with your whole being.
enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
april 26, 2012 in critters
i’m looking forward to making more out of let them eat vegan!
cocoa soy protein isolate less than 0.5% of: soy lecithin/carrageenan/flavors/cellulose gel/vitamins/minerals
the bad news is that the answers aren’t pretty.
i know it’s basic, but it’s true:
you don’t want your milk to have a gritty sediment, do you?
april 27, 2012 in original recipes, go vegan tips | tags: almond, alton brown, amylopectin, amylose, animal, baby, bean, brazil nut, chocolate, coconut, cow, dates, delivery, drupe, earth balance, eco-friendly, eggnog, flax, goat, grain, hazelnut, hemp, lactating, long grain rice, milk, non-dairy, oat, plant, pregnancy, profitable, pumpkin, raw, reproductive, rice, sediment, seed, sheep, short grain rice, silk, silk nog, soy, soy nog, sporty, vanilla, vegan, vegetarian, vitamix, wean, westsoy | leave a comment milk a bean, milk a grain, milk a nut, milk a seed, milk a drupe (yes, a drupe!http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/drupe), but please don’t milk an animal.
thepoint is to help solve a very serious social justice problem.
get every new post delivered to your inbox.
fortunately, the u.s. media’s version of that label aired on friday, april 20th on nbc’s the today show.
i know this because i drive past the place every time i drive to and from work.
nut rice milk (my own creation): soak 1/3 cup raw nuts and 2 pitted dates into 4 cups water for 4-8 hours.
(picture taken september 12, 2011 at the ringling circus protest in everett, wa) april 18, 2012 in critters | tags: backcountry, chipmunk, cutthroat pass, highway 20, hike, nature, north cascades, north cascades highway, squirrel, washington | 2 comments cutthroat pass hike – sept 13, 2008
eat all you want because there’s zero guilt!
you feel entitled to it.
point is, we don’t need to use the skin of a seal anymore.
it looks disgusting to me, but how is itreally any different than eating the leg of a turkey or the wing of a chicken?
can’t you choose to live in a better way?
the medical community has really lost their way if recommending 6 cans of boost per day is thebest that can be done for unfortunate patients such as this woman riddled with cancer.
there are different brands of each type of milk.
young children, in particular, naturally consider animals their friends.
chick cheez contains chickpeas, nutritional yeast flakes, tahini, lemon juice, light miso, olive oil, onion powder, garlic powder, dry mustard, paprika and salt.
exactly what the world needs more of: glorification of animal killing.
i wonder how many animals’ remains are in this bin…there must be several dozens of leg parts in only the little portion of the photo that i’m looking at.
adults are resistant to change.
what happens to the baby animals?
passionate vegans work for the greater good.
(i first learned about them from chef alton brown…thanks, a.b.!)
these are good things.
i guess they are used to make soup stocks, but apparently they are also considered a “normal” cut of meat.
tags: bear track, lake chelan, native american, north cascades, north navarre peak, sawtooth ridge, washington | leave a comment sawtooth ridge hike – sept 23, 2006 “honor the sacred.
since opening day, the parking lot’s been constantly packed.
powered by wordpress.com
you stop accepting that animals are just commodities to use.
fortunately,  the nutritional integrity of a healthy vegan diet for children was not called  into question…because it shouldn’t be.
are children so fragile that they cannot handle the truth about animal exploitation, when it is presented with gentle candor and realistic illustrations?
what happens to momma cow– momma goat– momma sheep when her overworked reproductive system stops being “profitable”?
to hear the guests speak, you’d think that ruby’s book will scar children for life: “there is so much fear in this book.”
my personal favorite is mixing my homemade nut rice milk with the packaged westsoy soymilk in a 50-50 ratio.
honor the earth, our mother.
or, if they genuinely care, then how will they explain the  hypocrisy in their actions?
make it more spicy if you want!
i said, i know, but how to you think the meat comes to you?
native american elder april 13, 2012 in original recipes | tags: creole, field roast, red bean, soup | leave a comment soak 2 cups dry red beans overnight.
we put “pressure” on the status quo.
no one minds a quiet vegan!
personally, i don’t like the aftertaste of packaged almond milks but i love homemade almond milk.
“why do we  have to scare them?”
when people consume milk from lactating animals, the first thing you should ponder iswhat is baby cow– baby goat– baby sheep– drinking?
have fun trying new things.
adults don’t want their routines disrupted, their palate pleasure disturbed, or their minds opened.
there is no nutritional need for animal milk in the human diet!
maybe itwas necessary to use seal skin once upon a time?
how will they try to convince their children that theydo care when maybe they really don’t?
it doesn’t really matter.
they are ridiculously sticky when new.
or, do you speak up and try to help effect change in others?
here are some key phrases that really resonated with me: with these thoughts in mind i proceed with my little blog…spreading my message in my own way!
all you can see in the image is a bin full of pigs’ hooves, including the lower leg portion.
let’s take a look at the ingredient lists… boost (chocolate flavor): water sugar corn syrup milk protein concentrate vegetable oil (canola, high oleic sunflower, corn)
add more water if needed to get the desired thickness.
all i see is a “sugar oil milk multivitamin & mineral” drink.
your body belongs to you.
it releases starch when cooking, resulting in a moist, soft and sticky grain.
dear average doctor in the usa: do you know that continually recommending boost or similar “protein drinks” (like ensure) will only sicken and kill your patients quicker?
the show’s pre-recorded segment with ruby roth about her new book was a positive portrayal of vegan parenting.
no “group” is more oppressed than non-human animals.
you stop going to venues using animals to entertain.
will they seriously be harmed by a book that honestly exposes them to the real world?
will children truly react negatively, or  will they logically respond with compassion and concern?
hilary mantel april 17, 2012 in get out & live life | tags: backcountry, climbing skins, freeheel, mission ridge, nylon, outdoors, seal, seal skin, severe tire damage, ski, skins, steep slope, telemark, vegan, washington, wenatchee | leave a comment this video was taken exactly 2 years ago…4/17/10.
veganism puts your innermost values of compassion and fairness into action.
here is a perfect example of what i’m talking about, written by my vegan friend from indonesia: “i did a talk on veganism to a bunch of 7 year olds.
for burger night #1 we had a side salad with a creamy horseradish dressing and some roasted yukon gold potatoes, carrots, celery and onion.
you enter the store to buy items that are specifically designed to– track, sight, call, bait, lure, decoy, catch, shoot, target, kill, gut, skin, butcher, season, cure, brine, grill, dehydrate, smoke, grind, slice, and vacuum seal– living, breathing, sentient animals who are simply minding their own business, trying to survive and thrive.
a book about living compassionately  surely needs a warning label, don’t you think?
it’s not your life, it’s his life (or hers).
it’s also less expensive than packaged milk and more eco-friendly.
so, spreaders of the vegan message: keep pushing for change…you pushy, pushy vegans!
one little girl said, ‘i think it’s mean.
april 14, 2012 in critters |
tarski by ben eastaugh and chris sternal-johnson.
the resulting milk is more watery, less creamy = not good!
1 pkg (4) chopped field roast apple sage sausages (or other vegan sausage) 28 oz can organic tomato puree 5 c water 1/4 t each: black pepper, cayenne pepper & gumbo file 1/2 t celery salt 1 t each: oregano, basil & parsley 2 t each: low sodium veggie broth powder, paprika & thyme 2 bay leaves saute the veggies and the spices in a large soup pot with a tablespoon of coconut oil for several minutes, then add the water, tomato puree, vegan sausage and the cooked, rinsed beans.
if you look for abundance you will find it.
i believe i need to get this message out, even if no one reads it.
frothy, healthy, affordable and delicious!
i don’t think we  give children nearly enough credit.
i guess these are called “trotters.”
april 14, 2012 in go vegan tips | tags: cornice, mission ridge, windy ridge |leave a comment go vegan tip #1 jump in!
now i know that oats are a secret ingredient for vegan burger success!
“displays will feature 200 animal mounts, including bears, elk, grouse and otters.”
in the world that i envision, these hooves & lower legs would not be in a bin destined for cellophane wrapping in the grocery meat counter.
may 1, 2012 in think about it | tags: vegan, bear track, washington, ski, backcountry, outdoors, vegetarian, animal, cabela's, tulalip, tulalip casino, seattle premium outlets, hunting, fishing, hiking, camping, outdoor, gear, heraldnet, bear, elk, grouse, otter, orca, chinook, mount, personal defense, home protection, track, sight, lure, bait, kill, decoy, gun, gut, skin, smoke, season, brine, grill, dehydrate, trap, shoot, catch, cure, butcher, slice, meat grinder, grind, outdoorsman, fight, survive, survival, empathy, life, comfort, contentness, hurt, marysville globe, shelter, adventure, merchandise, vacuum seal, grand slam, wild sheep, north america, ellen degeneres, mule deer, doe, youtube, stand up taste this, wild boar | leave a comment “experience the cabela’s adventure today”
you do what you gotta do…as long as you leave the animals alone!
children are not afraid to do that.
i think it has more to do with how non-vegans react to being challenged than anything else.
the show’s pre-recorded segment with ruby roth about her new book was  a positive portrayal of vegan parenting.
they  totally get it.
i thought that eric was taking my picture.
simmer the soaked, rinsed beans for at least 1 hour while preparing the other ingredients… 1 chopped onion several cloves minced garlic 2 chopped green peppers 2 chopped carrots 3 chopped celery stalks 1/2 large or 1 small chopped cauliflower small bunch of chopped kale leaves (remove center stem or mince stem & use)
(i don’t see the “organic” label on boost or ensure.)
(no wonder patients don’t do much better choking these things down than they do consuming the standard, devoid-of-nutrition institutional food!)
you– mr. average joe hunter & mr average bob fisherman– go out in nature with all of your cabela’s “goods” with the hope that something–someone– will die at your hands.
maintain “personal defense.”
| tags: animals, backcountry, driveway butte, green trails, hare, highway 20, indian creek, methow, nature, north cascades, north cascades highway, okanogan, outdoors, pythagoras, washington, washington pass | leave a comment driveway butte hike – september 22, 2007 animals share with us the privilege of having a soul.
vegetarians won’t do it.
who in their right mind would suggest a cancer patient consume any dairy products?
adults won’t listen to the  truth about unnecessary animal exploitation.
you stop consuming animals, wearing animals, and buying products made of animals or tested on animals.
how will they justify their own complicity in the violence?
history of breast cancer with mastectomy.
there are different varieties within the types of plant milks..like plain, vanilla, chocolate, unsweetened, fortified.
the first recipe i tried was the chickpea pumpkin seed burgers on page 136.
is it really the  children?
will they seriously be harmed by a book that honestly exposes  them to the real world?
it’s called “vegan is love:  having heart &  taking action,” by ruby roth.
amylose makes the rice cook up dry, firm and separate.
do you leave it at that?
website a new cabela’s store opened april 19, 2012 in tulalip, washington.
fortunately, the nutritional integrity of a healthy vegan diet for children was not called into question…because it shouldn’t be.
it doesn’t matter now because the past is the past.
italian mushroom saute 1 t coconut oil (for the pan) 1 carrot and/or 1 red pepper (chopped) 1 medium onion (chopped) several cloves garlic (to taste) (minced) dash salt & pepper 1 t dried basil 1 t italian seasoning blend 1 t nutritional yeast flakes 1/8-1/4 t crushed red pepper flakes 15 med-large crimini mushrooms (chopped) 10 med-large shiitake mushrooms (chopped)
i flipped open another new chart today at work in the skilled nursing facility.
one cup (dried) rice will make enough for 7 batches of milk.
rice milk made from long grains has more of a “gritty” sediment.
adults don’t want their routines disrupted, their palate  pleasure disturbed, or their minds opened.
children are inherently open-minded, curious, and adaptable.
you withdraw from pain.
the animals need our help so we can’t keep quiet.
it’s a pretty strange feeling the first time you realize you’re not going to slip!
ruby’s young stepdaughter indicated that her favorite food is kale.
what about the strong link between milk protein (casein) and cancer promotion?
chick cheez grilled chick cheez sandwich chick cheez “better than poutine” french fry dip april 15, 2012 in think about it | tags: hooves, life over death, meat counter, pig, pig's feet, soup stocks | leave a comment i’m looking at a picture that must have been taken at a meat processing plant.
my questions: where is the nutrition in these drinks?
i encourage you to make your own nut and rice milks.
(between the tulalip tribe resort/casino, the new cabela’s and the adjacent seattle premium outlets (outlet mall), there isno evidence thati can see of our “down economy.”
“we must ask what the distinction means between animal rights and human rights, as we are animals ourselves.”
a very nice lady, by the way.
all a vegan has to do is open his or her mouth to be labelled “pushy.”
free your heels - free your mind - free
children are quite capable of recognizing inconsistencies.
enjoy the positive changes.
will children truly react negatively, or will they logically respond with compassion and concern?
i was trying to make a fierce face.
you start thinking about animals as individuals with their own interests.
simmer everything for ~40-60 minutes.
this “meaty” add-in turns a plain spaghetti dinner into something much more tasty, nutritious, and satisfying.
ovarian cancer – status post oophorectomy.
no, i’d like these hooves attached to their rightful owners.
2 bloggers like this post.
but you want it for yourself.
it will make about 10 servings.
the “resting” time must allow the oats to soak up moisture and this helps bind the burger.
solving problems of gargantuan proportion depends on the collective effort of many.
bladder cancer – status post cystectomy & ileostomy.
now, we use nylon skins.
raw-nch dressing also makes a great veggie dip.
during the subsequent talk  about what happened, children mentioned how horrible that was.
the hooves are distinctly pink, which is obviously blood, but the darkness/lightness of the color varies.
if, for example, their children reads the book elsewhere  and comes home to share the cruel truths with them…what then?
blend the water, nuts and dates with 1/2 cup cooked short grain rice and 1 teaspoon vanilla extract in a vitamix blender or other “sporty” blender.
has anyone considered the effect of gmos in these low quality drinks?
you don’t want others to take that which does not belong to them.
yes,that’s the way i’d like it to be.
just yesterday i listened to a podcast that must have been made for me.
metastatic to lymph nodes.
she’s barely over 100 pounds.
let’s stop pretending to worry about the children.
for burger night #3 we had steamed broccoli.
his body belongs tohim, but you don’t care.
“vegan is love” gently asks young readers to take personal  responsibility in the form of taking actions that help make the world a better  place for animals.
there’s a new children’s book coming out this week.
(pictures taken 1/31/10 at mission ridge)
it’s called “vegan is love: having heart & taking action,” by ruby roth.
pick some of these ingredients and blend them together: banana, coconut milk, almond butter, flax meal, dark leafy greens, chia seeds, walnuts, avocado, hemp seed, organic soy milk, fresh fruit, silken tofu, wheat germ, coconut based yogurt and more… now, that would give cancer patients (and other sick people) a fighting chance.
april 12, 2012 in get out & live life |
are adults– parents– most of all afraid of having their own  apathy exposed?
her creations have the perfect balance of healthy and delicious.
you want to take the life of an animal.
then i realized he was taking a movie and it cracked me up!
if you don’t like one, try another.
(unless the skis themselves are made for climbing.)
it’s easier than you might think to wean off animal milk.
i love the way dreena cooks and bakes.
at first i wasn’t sure that the burgers would hold together, but after i let the patties sit for about an hour they held up just fine in the pan.
walk in balance and beauty.”