i saw jamie oliver fail miserably to convince kids that chicken nuggets are  nasty.
her hair is wild and sun-bleached.
hit porridge setting.
i do not want to tell you how long my reading list is now.
so i think i might venture even further and try this parfait.
i’d heard about quinoa, so i bought it, thinking, “this is so healthy.
“try it,” she answered.
um, i saw it at costco.
i make pizza often, and i usually subject everyone to my  experimentation.
i still ate it with my hands and made the crust into a tool to wrap up the toppings, just like folding a new york slice.
posted by mariko at 1:27 pm 0 commentsposted by mariko at 1:27 pm 0 comments new foods don’t only happen to kids.
she knows food tastes better outside.
she doesn’t get out of trying anything when it comes to the dinner table.
pog is a style of juice popular in hawaii and elsewhere.
and a bunch of pesticide sprayed vegetables next to the farmer’s market corn.
she gets that meals don’t have to be static repetitions of weeknight canned casseroles and eating out is a chance to try something new without having to do the dishes.
and… pretty much every rule goes out the window.
“i love your ‘best pizza ever’, mom,” she  says, as she picks through the toppings she wants, and leaves the rest behind.
every day she starts trying to pack her bento boxes with food she can grab out of the cupboard and fridge and announces that we’re going on a picnic.
amaya picked up on my vibe very quickly.
it brought the pizza together well.
don’t get me  wrong—i love a perfect neapolitan slice.
that means that they are all “local”, as we say in the islands.
impatiently wait until breakfast.
it has wonderful chew that seems to melt and feel chunky at the same time.
vicious animals guarding the trails.
it’s hard to describe mountain apple to those people who’ve  never had it (which is most people, really.
for the hike hiking snacks, a large pole with a net attached, good eyes
we have a few places we go regularly for foraging.
labels: pfb 2010 i have to tell you, it’s been nice getting comments for once.
if you want to vote for  me, you can do so here.
for the topping 4 large handfuls of guava as much passionfruit as you can find 6-8 mountain apple (if you can restrain yourself from eating this many) 1 mango, if you’re lucky, as your tree has already been stripped
“i love your ‘best pizza ever’, mom,” she says, as she picks through the toppings she wants, and leaves the rest behind.
island fresh fruit tart (printable version will follow in  the next post)
mochi wrapped chocolate dipped strawberries featuring local waialua milk chocolate and maui grown strawberries.
then i watched food inc. on netflix.
bibimbap is a korean dish of vegetables and meat on rice which is tossed and mixed with hot bean paste and a barely fried egg.
this is spicy corn on bread!”
food is expensive here, since we live on an island in the middle of the ocean.
i was skeptical but finally gave it a go.
the quinoa wasn’t overwhelming, and it was fluffy with just the right texture.
and well, corn isn’t very good  for you either.
they’ve become crowded and there are loyalties that run deep.
i will buy grass fed beef and free range chicken.
i still ate it with my  hands and made the crust into a tool to wrap up the toppings, just like folding  a new york slice.
amaya talks about picnics non-stop.
the one i kept calling the  “best pizza ever.”
sometimes your daughter wants to eat at taco bell even if you kind of hate yourself later.
do you think about these things?
don’t get me wrong—i love a perfect neapolitan slice.
the whole fruit is like a fleeting moment.
i pause, mid-click in my bibimbap pizza photo shoot.
if you really hate it, tell me so on my poll ------------->
i am a huge fan of (read: obsessed with)  stone bowl bap.
forfoodbuzz’s project food blog, we were challenged to photograph our  process, whether this was for a cooking method, or recipe.
fruit is an instant, beautiful taste, and probably whatever you do to it  will make it worse than if you had just eaten it off the tree.
i have to admit that jake and amaya like fake cheese on their nachos better than real cheese.
and how the ideal meets the real.
i’ve been ignoring it for weeks now (months?).
there  is an edge of bitterness.
pizza is something i dream about.
the second i’m up she’s asking me about a picnic.
amaya yells when she walks in the door.
about the food ilet my daughter eat.
forfoodbuzz’s project food blog, we were challenged to photograph our process, whether this was for a cooking method, or recipe.
posted by mariko at 10:51 am 5 commentsposted by mariko at 10:51 am 5 comments
send some recipes my way so i can like it too.
when she got out the kid’s set for our “afternoon tea”,  she handed me a slice of wooden bread.
sometimes she will get ready for it even before we’re awake.
i have recently decided to do more to eat organic, free-range, and local.
mochi is a popular dessert among locals, since food in hawaii has strong japanese influence.
it is a mix of flavors that work, however odd it sounds.
bibimbap is a  korean dish of vegetables and meat on rice which is tossed and mixed with hot  bean paste and a barely fried egg.
(although it makes a wonderful pie, if you pick more than you can eat raw, since it lasts for about 2 days off the tree.)
we ate and amaya explored and we even picked some fruit along the path.
my husband, jake, is a fruit hunter.
everything tastes better  when you’re hiking.
“i’m not sure if i want spicy corn on bread.
local lunch (click on the links to print) kalua pork sandwiches with organic pork, local sea salt, local cabbage/carrot slaw, and homemade barbecue sauce made with local lilikoi (passion fruit).
i love them, but i almost never make them because they’re a total hassle.
when she got out the kid’s set for our “afternoon tea”, she handed me a slice of wooden bread.
there is an edge of bitterness.
i think this could be a great reality show on the discovery channel.
i like elaborate meals, but a simple picnic should be just that.
posted by mariko at 2:27 am 33 commentsposted by mariko at 2:27 am 33 comments i have to tell you, it’s been nice getting comments for once.
the skin is  not even skin at all—it’s just a red extension of the flesh.
i will eat less meat but  better quality.
and well, corn isn’t very good for you either.
if you  really hate it, tell me so on my poll ------------->
for the pastry cream:
they hike a few times a week and we always have passionfruit (lilikoi), guava, strawberry guava (waiwi), or mountain apples around the house.
dangerous river crossings remnants from the last civilization and hotties like this: mozely was so excited that he opened his eyes for all of 30 seconds on our 2 hour hike.
sometimes you have to rely on the world market when you want to pick up some gruyere cheese.
island fresh fruit tart (printable version will follow in the next post)
it wasn’t one of my better moments after shopping with kids for 2 hours.)
when i started looking ahead tochallenge #5 of foodbuzz’s project food blog, i immediately started thinking pizza.
escaping the corporation that is food today is an extra step, make that several extra steps, when you’re considering your family, your job, and your budget.
local eggs that go for $7 a dozen have plenty of buyers .
during this season we make plans to visit the mountain valleys that have the best trees and we pay attention to the groves of trees that are getting ripe so we can come back.
even people who live in hawaii may  not ever see it).
i like crunchy, yes, but it’s too crunchy.
my daughter, amaya, has tons of local attitude.
i saw jamie oliver fail miserably to convince kids that chicken nuggets are nasty.
we tend to turn to cheap name brands because growing and producing here can be tougher.
recently i found out you could make oatmeal in the rice cooker.
i decided to forage for our ingredients and make  ourselves an island fruit tart.
in a stone bowl that has been heated, the flavors kind of cook together and sizzle while the rice becomes crisp on the edges.
posted by mariko  at 8:33 pm 6 comments sunday, october 10, 2010 processed fruit labels: dessert, fruit, recipe hawaii has a lot of secrets—spaces among the valleys and  trails that are meaningful to people who live there.
but it’s worth it, because now i just want to lick my screen all day.
i will eat less meat but better quality.
and a bunch of pesticide sprayed vegetables  next to the farmer’s market corn.
so thank you, thank you, thank you, for your nice, kind, and loving words,  despite my amateur-hour pictures and too-long posts.
view and print the recipe(s) here: the whole recipe: the bap’za crust gochujang sweet pizza sauce namul (soy bean sprouts and daikon/carrot)
i thought a lot about the food i eat.
and it’s absolutely nothing like an apple.
i packed everything in glass boxes with lids (which stack very nicely and securely), and the soft stuff i put on top.
usually our picnics are out in the yard.
as picky as she is, she gets that there is a world of taste out there, and she wants it.
food and economy and environment?
especially my rules about jello, store bought cookies, and candy that doesn’t contain chocolate.
and she definitely gets that i am going to make her try my pizza.
everyone’s more relaxed and focused on enjoying the meal instead of rushing off to finish the next thing on our to-do list.
it’s just part of the picture.
but let’s get that image out of our heads.
i will cook from scratch often.
the meal is not center stage.
i mean, you’re here, reading my extremely long posts and  looking at my terrible food pictures and now i’m asking you to vote for  me?
so if i make something from it, it better be dang good.
i will avoid fast food like the plague, even if vanilla soft serve is delicious.
it just tastes uncooked to me.
i make pizza often, and i usually subject everyone to my experimentation.
i put a ratio of 1 rice cup (if you have a rice cooker, i hope you didn’t throw this away) quinoa and 3 rice cups rice (duh) and filled the water up to “rice” line 4.
is that really how i sound?
hopefully i will see some of you around here again.
i know asking for votes is kind of rude of me.
if i wanted to make a traditional fruit tart, it’s likely that i’d be spending about $20 just on the topping.
(did you read that post where i said i was ashamed of myself for being such a corporate-struck foodie?
she knows when i’m on the  trail for food.
amaya has been jake’s apprentice for a while now, and she spots fruit and calls out from her perch.
sometimes we can even stock up on local avocados (which, i’m telling you, have so many varieties and flavors that haas avocados will hold no interest for you ever again).
the pizza sauce is a sweetened gochujang (hot bean paste) that mimics korean fried chicken sauce recipes i’ve had.
when our friends came over for dinner last week, one said, “yep, this is mariko pizza.”
the pizza sauce is a sweetened  gochujang (hot bean paste) that mimics korean fried chicken sauce recipes  i’ve had.
i am a huge fan of (read: obsessed with) stone bowl bap.
view and print the recipe(s) here: if you want a slice of this pizza, vote for me by clicking my profile icon on the right sidebar starting on monday the 18th.
i mean, you’re here, reading my extremely long posts and looking at my terrible food pictures and now i’m asking you to vote for me?
the one i kept calling the “best pizza ever.”
posted by mariko at 6:01 pm 3 commentsposted by mariko at 6:01 pm 3 comments everyone in my family was born here, in hawaii, except me.
the stuff you buy at the store is practically viscous.
or just sleep because you don’t get excited about this like i do.
we come back  with bags of fruit and the fruit flies love it as much as we do.
(just for one night.)
for this challenge (#4—can you believe i’ve made it this far?)
i know asking for votes is kind of  rude of me.
and a bunch  of meat that has been corn fed.
i guess i’d been talking about it a bit too much.
that’s what i usually do.
and don’t hate me for installing disqus for my comments.
even people who live in hawaii may not ever see it).
i brought a small cutting board with small paring knife so we could assemble our sandwiches, and we used the lids to eat on to eliminate waste.
and you make it work for your situation.
and sizzle while the rice becomes crisp on the edges.
halloween is my favorite holiday.
maybe i can’t fix everything.
escaping the corporation that is food  today is an extra step, make that several extra steps, when you’re  considering your family, your job, and your budget.
the pizza sliced nicely and held  together, but with all the toppings, you’ll want to eat this one with a  fork, because you are likely more civilized than me.
i’m not sure how many times i’ve recommended the zojirushi to people but it’s really the best.
there are seasons for  fruit, in hawaii, despite being an average 80 degrees most of the year.
we come back with bags of fruit and the fruit flies love it as much as we do.
this tells me so much about how people have the power to change the way business is run.
they came out creamy and perfect.
i’ve highlighted the local ingredients i used in my menu.
because, hey, i have chicken nuggets in the fridge.
i also think this minimizes the mess.
when i think of food as being local, it is hawaii born and bred.
luckily there are enough secrets to go around, at least until the next guide book is published.
foraging for your own fruit changes the whole game and makes you feel a little more connected with your food.
that’s how versatile it is.
we ate our lunch at ho’omaluhia, a botanical garden, and soaked up the local beauty.
baking the egg in the oven on the rice  crust and sauce made it just right, as the yolk was hot and still able to mix  well with my toppings as i loaded them on.
all the food i brought could be eaten cold or at room temperature and was a spin on the traditional sandwich type picnic lunch.
she gets that meals  don’t have to be static repetitions of weeknight canned casseroles and  eating out is a chance to try something new without having to do the dishes.
sweet potato chips made with locally grown okinawan sweet potatoes.
it has a  lot of juice but has a dry skin.
sometimes we can even stock up on  local avocados (which, i’m telling you, have so many varieties and  flavors that haas avocados will hold no interest for you ever again).
“i want to try your ‘best pizza ever’,” she tells me and immediately starts reaching for a slice of meat.
but it’s worth it, because now i just want to lick my screen  all day.
but, me, i can’t leave well enough alone.
i read about the spaghetti taco craze thanks to icarly on the ny times  website.
are you laughing yet?
sweet potato is a traditional side dish at a luau.
she knows when i’m on the trail for food.
when you’ve got kids to carry and blankets and a little way to walk, bringing the china is too much to ask.
currently we are in a mountain apple season.
the rice crust i  made on a pizza pan imitated that perfectly.
amaya has been jake’s apprentice for a while now, and she spots fruit  and calls out from her perch.
i’ve also loved being exposed to some new food blogs.
the combinations that i’ve come up with will last me several good posts into the future.
fruit is an instant, beautiful taste, and probably whatever you do to it will make it worse than if you had just eaten it off the tree.
just like local people, local produce and goods thrive in tropical weather and represent diverse polynesian, asian, and american flavors.
then i started thinking about the way i eat.
good food without a lot of clutter.
steel cut oats are like the mother of all oatmeals.
luckily there are enough  secrets to go around, at least until the next guide book is published.
the farmers markets are growing rapidly.
so thank you, thank you, thank you, for your nice, kind, and loving words, despite my amateur-hour pictures and too-long posts.
and a bunch of meat that has been corn fed.
i will eat leftovers rather than instant.
the pizza sliced nicely and held together, but with all the toppings, you’ll want to eat this one with a fork, because you are likely more civilized than me.
can i mention me again?
of course, like i said, these things aren’t always cheap, and a bit more time consuming and inconvenient.
even though i’m not local, getting in with the locals sure has its benefits.
i made a picnic lunch that features local produce and goods, while trying to reflect local tastes and recipes.
i think my husband would love me even more if i made rachel’s candy corn pumpkins.
sometimes when i wake up i find her outside on the porch in her pajamas, eating her picnic already.
it’s like the culinary canvas.
so if nothing else, this project food blog thing rocks because i feel like i’ve been let into a secret society of “people who look at blogs.”
but there is a little  i can do.
too many dishes and stuff to set out ruin the experience you’re having with the outdoors.
the rice crust i made on a pizza pan imitated that perfectly.
i loved quinoa in the rice cooker.
i finally decided to give it a go when i saw a recipe for a quinoa cake.
i will avoid fast food like the plague, even if vanilla soft serve is  delicious.
yesterday i was saying to myself, “forget buying local!
but, me, i can’t leave  well enough alone.
i also ran into these edible eyeballs.
during this season we make plans  to visit the mountain valleys that have the best trees and we pay attention to  the groves of trees that are getting ripe so we can come back.
about the food i feed my daughter.
mainland fruits, like blueberries, are expensive here.
i left the rice cooker on warm for four days until we finished off the bowl.
she gets that being excited about food is an extension of the pleasure of taste.
and how the ideal  meets the real.
so if i make  something from it, it better be dang good.
posted by mariko  at 3:46 pm 12 comments sunday, october 17, 2010 labels: entre, pfb 2010, recipe, vegetables “mom!”
packing up dirty plates afterwards is trickier.
planning a menu to eat with your hands is much more simple and your shared experience is greater when you all have to drink your juice out of the glass jar that you brought.
“you’re going to love it!”
they hike a few times a  week and we always have passionfruit (lilikoi), guava, strawberry guava  (waiwi), or mountain apples around the house.
she practically lives outside (with lots and lots of sunscreen on) and she loves to eat outside.
can’t it take a hint?
she  doesn’t get out of trying anything when it comes to the dinner table.
there are seasons for fruit, in hawaii, despite being an average 80 degrees most of the year.
it has  wonderful chew that seems to melt and feel chunky at the same time.
if kids are a pretty honest reflection of yourself, then my interest in food is definitely rubbing off on amaya.
in a stone bowl that has been heated, the flavors kind of cook  together
i have a ton of quinoa in my cupboard.
i buy my ingredients, make notes in my book, bounce wacky ideas  off jake, and announce my food-making schedule.
it is a mix of flavors that work, however  odd it sounds.
i  have a feeling that this is a very big society, actually.
(although it makes a  wonderful pie, if you pick more than you can eat raw, since it lasts for about  2 days off the tree.)
i’ve had pizza in every country i’ve ever visited, and everyone  makes it their own.
the kalua pork i made here mimics the flavor created in a traditional hawaiian imu—underground oven.
posted by mariko at 3:46 pm 12 commentsposted by mariko at 3:46 pm 12 comments “mom!”
it’s kind of overwhelming.
i immediately wanted to make some.
everything tastes better when you’re hiking.
the combinations that i’ve come up with will last me several good  posts into the future.
her favorite food is spam musubi.
hopefully i will see some  of you around here again.
it is like the softest, ripest pear, in texture, without any of the grit, but the flavor is slightly rosy and slightly sour.
if you want a slice of this pizza, vote for me by clicking my profile icon  on the right sidebar starting on monday the 18th.
i really would have never known it was quinoa.
it has a small pit in the center.
the snap of vegetables, sweet sesame, spicy gochujang, salty meat, sour pickles, and soft rice each offer their individual and distinct treasures to your tongue and teeth.
pog or passion orange guava juice made with ka’u gold local oranges and foraged lilikoi and guava juices.
i have a feeling that this is a very big society, actually.
what do you think of commentluv?
it has a lot of juice but has a dry skin.
what do you do to put it all in perspective?
if i wanted to make  a traditional fruit tart, it’s likely that i’d be spending about  $20 just on the topping.
foraging for your own fruit changes the whole game and  makes you feel a little more connected with your food.
baking the egg in the oven on the rice crust and sauce made it just right, as the yolk was hot and still able to mix well with my toppings as i loaded them on.
pumpkin oatmeal how do you like your oatmeal?
dangerous river crossings remnants from the last civilization and hotties like this: mozely was so excited that he opened his eyes for all of 30 seconds on our  2 hour hike.
i felt embarrassed when i was going through my cupboard and saw it was still there.
for the hike for the topping for the pastry cream: for the crust: for the lilikoi glaze method: posted by mariko at 2:38 pm 27 commentsposted by mariko at 2:38 pm 27 comments
amaya “fished” in the lake with her stick, just like all kids have done since the beginning of who knows when.
posted by mariko  at 2:27 am 33 comments monday, october 11, 2010 round 4 voting is open!
here are some ideas i’m going to try: bruleed oatmeal pan fried oatmeal chocolate
and i’ll take it off.
the skin is not even skin at all—it’s just a red extension of the flesh.
animatedly, she offered, “here you go.
i’ve had pizza in every country i’ve ever visited, and everyone makes it their own.
but one idea was my favorite.
i will totally love this.”
all you need is a porridge setting.
the snap of vegetables, sweet sesame, spicy gochujang, salty  meat, sour pickles, and soft rice each offer their individual and distinct  treasures to your tongue and teeth.
she has a shoe-optional wardrobe.
and i want to make these bat cookies, ‘cause they look super easy and aren’t just the decorated sugar cookie.
the night before, just use your rice cup to measure the steel cut oats and put water up to the same number of cups on the porridge line in your bowl.
if you want to vote for me, you can do so here.
i think i can balance my life and still commit to these things.
i decided to forage for our ingredients and make ourselves an island fruit tart.
posted by mariko at 12:34 pm 2 commentsposted by mariko at 12:34 pm 2 comments i read about the spaghetti taco craze thanks to icarly on the ny times website.
i buy my ingredients, make notes in my book, bounce wacky ideas off jake, and announce my food-making schedule.
“i want to try your ‘best pizza ever’,” she tells  me and immediately starts reaching for a slice of meat.
it is like the softest, ripest pear, in texture, without any  of the grit, but the flavor is slightly rosy and slightly sour.
posted by mariko at 8:33 pm 6 commentsposted by mariko at 8:33 pm 6 comments hawaii has a lot of secrets—spaces among the valleys and trails that are meaningful to people who live there.
the bap’za this pizza is a recreation of bibimbap in pizza form.
i stuck with common bap toppings and made my own namul (seasoned vegetables) to go with the bulgogi beef, egg, mushrooms, and cucumber.
our process starts  out with the fruit.
just give me a drive-thru supermarket!”
i stuck with common bap  toppings and made my own namul (seasoned vegetables) to go with the bulgogi  beef, egg, mushrooms, and cucumber.
when our friends came over for dinner last week, one said, “yep, this  is mariko pizza.”
my daughter could eat oatmeal every day, so i’m trying to find new ways to cook it.
if kids are a pretty honest reflection of yourself, then my interest in  food is definitely rubbing off on amaya.
i’ve seenmore markets pop up close to my home, and the one i frequent has grown in size.
our process starts out with the fruit.
so if  nothing else, this project food blog thing rocks because i feel like i’ve  been let into a secret society of “people who look at blogs.”
i wish i had another halloween party to go to because last night i got to tastethese jello worms, and they were so awesome (thanks karla!).
my mom told me that my dad likes it mixed with the regular rice in the rice cooker.
when i started  looking ahead tochallenge #5 of foodbuzz’s project food blog, i  immediately started thinking pizza.
hope you break a few rules, just for one night.
jake hands her fruit and she devours it.
i was happy to be able to accommodate her love of picnics forthis project foodbuzz challenge.
i have to admit that jake and amaya  like fake cheese on their nachos better than real cheese.
she will  eat as much guava and strawberry guava as you can find.
even when i tried to cook it longer.
as picky as she is, she gets that  there is a world of taste out there, and she wants it.
it’s hard to describe mountain apple to those people who’ve never had it (which is most people, really.
i think this could be a great reality  show on the discovery channel.
animatedly, she offered, “here you  go.
also topped with local avocado and tomato slices.
but there is a little i can do.
she will eat as much guava and strawberry guava as you can find.