want my daily postings emailed to you?
and, even better, you can usually eat a good portion of  fries (like 20) for 120 calories, or 2 ww points.
email address note: i will not use your email address for  anything other than sending my updates.
then, instead of putting them in the deep fryer, you  bake them in the oven on very high heat.
things i ate today included (i'll blog about many in the future): my favorite  frozenvan's waffles, my favorite low calorie string cheese, carrot soup with my  favoritefat free sour cream, low calorie pita bread, and of course these  wonderful french fries, that i referenced in the title of this post.
so what's the secret?
if you bake the fries on cookie sheets covered in tin foil, it makes them crispy without spending so much time in the oven.
so... today turned out to be a  "good eating day", despite the unexpected orange juice that could  have thrown me off (that i mentioned in my previous post).
trust me, you are  going to love them.
still not too bad if you can stick to the serving amount!
share to twitter share to facebook labels: fruits  and vegetables, healthy diet food, low calorie miscellaneous, low calorie side  dish, low calorie snack
then, i dash on some salt, and out comes a perfect low calorie snack or low calorie side dish for your meal.
well, baking your french fries of course!so, you start by  buying frozen french fries in the freezer section of any supermarket (safeway  makes my favorite kind).
i personally like my french fries  really crispy, so i bake them for a long time, sometimes even broiling them at  the end to make them crispy.
close sunday, june 8, 2008 did you say low calorie, healthy, french fries?
join my  yummy diet food email list!
i could be wrong, but i remember seeing a french fry factory on the food network once and they deep fry the fries before they freeze them.
tweet posted by elizabeth  at 7:51 pm  email
i just had some with my dinner.
i ended up eating 25  ww points, and i exercised for 4, so i am pleased with how i did overall.