muffins (homemade) 28 gram red rock plain chips cool treats and drinks juicies frozen fruit tube (additive free) dried fruit (no additives,  see below)
ensure no lumps of cheese are left.
federal state school in the noosa hinterland of queensland (110 students)their 'well fed kids' policy features: some suggestions from the federal school additive free rangesnacks recipes halliwell chicken nuggets - these nuggets are additive-free and kids love them.500 g chicken breasts or thighs, cut into nugget shapes (easier to do when chicken is half frozen) mix chicken with garlic and salt and let stand for about 30 minutes.
two years on, the school was the 34th most improved school in the country.
after the trial, the children were allowed to buy a treat, and the camera caught what some experts claim doesn't happen – the children became loud, cheeky, annoying, fought with each other again.
you can write for our list of supportive dietitians (confoodnet@ozemail.com.au)
we've already shown the palmers island clip to  schoolteachers and 2000 schoolchildren from over 25 schools.
alternative: insist on finding alternative products - they are available!
wolney junior school: a junior school in the uk which has leapt up the league tables attributes some of its success to a ban on crisps and fizzy drinks at the tuck shop.
during the trial the students were offered additive free breakfasts at no cost, encouraged to have bottles of water on their desks, and asked to eat additive free foods at school and at home.
food intolerance network factsheet healthy choice c anteens/tuckshopsmany teachers and parents are disappointed by 'healthy' foods in sold in canteens under the anti-obesity guidelines for australian schools.
alternative: see our recipe below for homemade additive-free chicken nuggets.
about 70-80 per cent of children joined the trial, and everyone noticed a  difference – quieter, calmer, less yelling in class, concentrating  better, nicer to each other, less annoying, naughty children less naughty  – and no headaches, stomach aches or skin rashes.
brush tops with milk.
bronwyn says: kids in schools don't mind cutting our colours - who cares what colour it is - or preservatives.
wolney junior school: a junior school in the uk which  has leapt up the league tables attributes some of its success to a ban on  crisps and fizzy drinks at the tuck shop.
federal state school in the noosa hinterland of queensland (110 students) their 'well fed kids' policy features: a healthy choice menu including an additive free range healthy snack time mid morning 'water within reach' cordial and soft drinks banned in lunchboxes provision of physical activity each day no sweets to be used as rewards within the classroom some suggestions from the federal school additive free range snacks pikelets (home-made) 2 per serve, with honey, jam or butter popcorn plain unflavoured, freshly popped jatz stacks (4 crackers with  cheese)
avoid strong added flavours, vanilla  flavour is safest how to reduce additives in your school - suggestion from 4 schools 1.
our adelaide contact bronwyn pollnitz recently organised a highly successful additive free trial in this school and several others.
most chicken nugget type products will contain some kind of glutamate containing ingredients, perhaps yeast extract or hydrolysed vegetable/wheat/plant/maize/rice protein, and some food activitsts suspect that msg-type flavour enhancers can be hidden in 'spices' or 'spice extracts' or 'flavours'
from our point of view, canteens can't call themselves 'healthy' until they adopt 'low additive' guidelines as well.
bake at 220°c for 15 mins.
see palmers island video (larger 3mb version) more information: see the program used at palmers island schools: eating for success!
how to avoid artificial colours fin members tell us that artificial colours still appear in 'healthy' canteens in products such as ice tubes, slushies, icypoles, zooper doopers, strawberry milk, yoghurt-based snacks, licorice twists, jellies, sprinkles, pickles, sausage rolls, pies and hot dogs.
based on sue dengate's 'fed up with children's behaviour'  presentation and filmed in various locations over six months, the dvd includes  revealing interviews with parents and children from cairns to gippsland  illustrating the many aspects of food intolerance.
pupils at wolney junior school in new addington, south london, now consume two boxes of apples, two of bananas and two crates of satsumas every week.
"all the teachers in the year group  noticed a difference in behaviour and concentration."
roll chicken pieces in flour until all are coated then freeze for 15 minutes to make flour stick better.
bronwyn's green dip recipe 1 small crushed clove of  garlic 4 spring onions (or 2 + small amount of parsley) 250g cream  cheese 2-4 teaspoons water place garlic and spring onions (+ parsley if using) in food processer and  mince.
bronwyn says: kids in schools don't mind cutting our colours - who cares what colour  it is - or preservatives.
contact bronwyn for further information: peterbron@optusnet.com.au 2.
wolney junior which won praise as one of the most improved schools in greater london, claims that concentration levels shot up and behaviour improved when tuck shop "junk" was axed from morning break.
based on sue dengate's 'fed up with children's behaviour' presentation and filmed in various locations over six months, the dvd includes revealing interviews with parents and children from cairns to gippsland illustrating the many aspects of food intolerance.
add extra water if necessary, up to a cup of water, to make the mixture moist like sausage mince.
flavour is harder - the canteen manager is  likely to say 'but this is the brand the kids chose!'
the ban was brought in  because of fears that artificial additives including flavourings, sweeteners  and preservatives, made children hyperactive and more difficult to teach.
its key stage two test results in english, which were less than half the national average in 1996 with 23 per cent of pupils achieving expected levels, leapt to a 64% rate last year.
the old tuck shop was scrapped in 1997.
all available with lettuce or salad (lettuce, tomato, carrot,  cucumber, beetroot)
then stir with enough oil to make sure all pieces are coated.
in one school, artificial colours were found in the following products
see viewers' feedback under  order books.
flavour is harder - the canteen manager is likely to say 'but this is the brand the kids chose!'
cut frozen pastry sheet in half.
when i talk to classes i always bring in dips and fresh vegies for them to try, to really make a point that proper fresh real food doesn't need extra flavour added to make it taste good.
see viewers' feedback under order books.
always consult with your doctor for underlying illness.
fresh ripe local fruit in season healthy  choice sandwiches - these are completely additive free: egg cheese (additive free sliced cheese)
hills cc school in adelaide.
the information given is not intended as medical advice.
about 70-80 per cent of children joined the trial, and everyone noticed a difference – quieter, calmer, less yelling in class, concentrating better, nicer to each other, less annoying, naughty children less naughty – and no headaches, stomach aches or skin rashes.
the  trial in 1996, had immediate results.
so we  took a professional camera crew with us.
to meet low fat, low salt guidelines if needed you can reduce the portion size, which is what the manufacturers have done.
before the trial, we spent a day at the school talking to 120 students, staff and parents about the effects of nasty food additives and teaching them how to read labels.
one of our teachers asked if  it was possible to trial the sale of fruit in just one year group".
we've already shown the palmers island clip to schoolteachers and 2000 schoolchildren from over 25 schools.
it's part of our dvd launched in 2006.
it  really is about providing very palatable alternatives to things like flavoured  chips, biscuits, noodles etc.
information is drawn from the scientific literature, web research, group members and personal enquiry; while all care is taken, information is not warranted as accurate and the food intolerance network and sue dengate cannot be held liable for any errors and omissions.
the success rate for 11 year olds has almost trebled since the ban on unhealthy snacks two years ago.
two years on, the school was the  34th most improved school in the country.
when i talk to classes i always bring in dips and fresh vegies for them  to try, to really make a point that proper fresh real food doesn't need extra  flavour added to make it taste good.
– deborah halliwellfurther information
one of our teachers asked if it was possible to trial the sale of fruit in just one year group".
additives linked to children's behaviour and attention problemscolours how to reduce additives in your school - suggestion from 4 schools 1.
can be buttered (see below)
as one mother commented: 'low salt, low sugar, low fat and let's give them every other bit of sh*t we can find to give it taste.
peter winder, the head teacher, said "we were very concerned that the  crisps and fizzy drinks had all the e-additives.
well, here's what one failsafer found in her new, 'healthy' school canteen - chicken nuggets with the following ingredients: chicken (51%), flours (wheat, rice, maize), potato flakes (potato, emulsifier (471)), isolate soy protein, acidity regulator (330,450), preservative (220), salt, water, acidity regulator (450,500,451), stabiliser (481,1404,471,412,415), vegetable oil, gluten, maltodextin, egg albumen, dextrose, firming agent (509), cereal starches (tapioca, potato, wheat), hydrolysed vegetable protein, colour (100, 160c), dehydrated vegetables, herbs & spices, flavour (wheat, lactose) antioxidant (320) emulsifier (900).
add more water if needed.
it's part of our  dvd launched in 2006.
they don't care if the food lasts one day or a one  year - they just want to eat it now!
makes 26 rolls using 7 pastry sheets.
add cream cheese and water and mix until the desired consistency is achieved.
palmers island primary school: in 2005 a small school  in northern nsw asked us to help them with a two week additive free trial
during the trial the  students were offered additive free breakfasts at no cost, encouraged to have  bottles of water on their desks, and asked to eat additive free foods at school  and at home.
shallow fry in failsafe oil until crisp and golden brown.
veronicaback to top disclaimer: the information given is not intended as medical advice.
after the trial, the  children were allowed to buy a treat, and the camera caught what some experts  claim doesn't happen – the children became loud, cheeky, annoying, fought  with each other again.
palmers island primary school: in 2005 a small school in northern nsw asked us to help them with a two week additive free trial so we took a professional camera crew with us.
before the trial, we spent a day at  the school talking to 120 students, staff and parents about the effects of  nasty food additives and teaching them how to read labels.
a few families who had been thinking about doing the full  elimination diet took the opportunity to do it and felt much more supported  than usually happens.
the ban was brought in because of fears that artificial additives including flavourings, sweeteners and preservatives, made children hyperactive and more difficult to teach.
trials have shown that students do better when they eat low additive food and the federal government lists additives most likely to be a problem in school lunches on page 43 of its national healthy school canteens guidelines (oh, and by the way, it's a mistake that artificial colour 133 brilliant blue doesn't appear on this list, this additive is just as bad as the other artificial colours).
mix all ingredients except meat in food processor for smooth mix and add to mince.
"all the teachers in the year group noticed a difference in behaviour and concentration."
they don't care if the food lasts one day or a one year - they just want to eat it now!
its key stage two test results in  english, which were less than half the national average in 1996 with 23 per  cent of pupils achieving expected levels, leapt to a 64% rate last year.
wolney junior which won praise as one of the most improved schools in greater  london, claims that concentration levels shot up and behaviour improved when  tuck shop "junk" was axed from morning break.
bake in a preheated 180°c oven for 1 hour.
the success rate for 11 year olds has almost  trebled since the ban on unhealthy snacks two years ago.
they particularly like the green dip.
pupils at wolney junior school in new  addington, south london, now consume two boxes of apples, two of bananas and  two crates of satsumas every week.
chicken nuggets remember what jamie oliver said about chicken nuggets in jamie's school dinners?
a few families who had been thinking about doing the full elimination diet took the opportunity to do it and felt much more supported than usually happens.
before beginning dietary investigation, consult a dietician with an interest in food intolerance.
place on baking tray.
see palmers island video (larger 3mb version) more information: see the program used at palmers island schools: eating  for success!
see a report of low additive schools around the world 3.
missed the point i'd say'.
put mixture on the edge of the pastry, roll the pastry over.
the trial in 1996, had immediate results.
peter winder, the head teacher, said "we were very concerned that the crisps and fizzy drinks had all the e-additives.
our adelaide contact  bronwyn pollnitz recently organised a highly successful additive free trial in  this school and several others.
chicken (additive free)
each pastry sheet makes 4 sausages rolls.
or for a low fat alternative: place chicken pieces in a bowl and stir with stir with salt and flour until well coated.
serve with healthy choice oven fry chips and green beans, or in a failsafe burger roll with salad – deborah halliwell home-made additive free sausage rollspastry - 2 packets pampas butter puff pastry frozen sheets (not rolls)
it really is about providing very palatable alternatives to things like flavoured chips, biscuits, noodles etc. bronwyn's green dip recipe1 small crushed clove of garlic place garlic and spring onions (+ parsley if using) in food processer and mince.
sue, i'm sure you have felt many times over the years that you are a quiet voice speaking against a loud majority, but i think we are slowly getting louder too!
© sue dengate update january 2012joomla seo powered by joomsef
in amongst all those numbers are two nasty additives (sulphur dioxide 220 'the asthma additive' and antioxidant 320) as well as glutamate-containing ingredient hydrolysed vegetable protein (this is the same as msg).
add cream cheese and water and mix until the desired consistency is  achieved.