store in container that is not airtight.
set on a teflon or lightly oiled (olive or vegetable oil only- to be kosher) cookie sheet and use a fork to lightly puncture the dough.
in a dark, warm place, to continue draining.
before placing loaf size dough into pan, fold and pound with side of fist a few times to get air bubbles out and to make a tighter and more elastic-like loaf.
note: the pancakes will be tough if batter is saved and used the next day.
those who are in the know urge canneries to not can or use oxy packs  for grains.
this is the best way to eat soy.
serve plain or topped with a gravy or sauce.
when honey holds its shape and is a golden color, twist into ropes and place back on the counter top or baking sheet and cut into pieces with scissors.
but realistically, in case of severe emergency, plan to have enough water to  sustain your family fortwo weeks.
the versatility by which they can be modified, and combined to give variety and palatable food preparations seems never ending.
you probably eat as much for the pleasure that food brings as you do to satisfy your hunger.
rinse and drain the contents of the jar once a day, or sometimes i leave it a day or two and just rinse, drain and let dry out a little before storing in the fridge.
so, in  addition to adding important enzymes, increasing nutrition, saving time  and effort in preparing whole foods, the yield is even a greater savings  on your food budget.
however, if you store the water in a glass container that has a cardboard liner in the lid, the cardboard will disintegrate and create off flavors and off odors.
even a small solar still could provide some drinking water until other sources could be developed.
honey milk powder, non instant plus these tools for preparing: fry pan; sauce pan; cookie  sheet; wire strainer; hand grain mill (that will crack and grind grains into flour);
blueberry: when underside is browned, sprinkle drained blueberries over each pancake.
contact life sprouts 1-800-241-1516.
this is  the best way to eat soy.
fold in stiff whites just before baking.
higher than meat in protein  and the citrus fruits in vit c, at a fraction of the cost!
add sprouts to a tossed salad or to a blend of grated  raw vegetables (try yams, red beets, turnips, jicama, peeled broccoli  spears etc.
you could end up  without a water supply if all your glass containers are shattered.
in  time of emergency, your source of heat may not be available and you will  be forced to search for an alternate method of heating or using your food.
bedding (sleeping bags, blankets etc.)
baking powder 1/4 tsp.
soak 1/3 cup green lentils overnight, preferable in purified water, in a 1 quart jar.
(special  sprouting jars with drainage lids can be obtained at health food stores.
with oil on your hands remove the dough from bowl and form into loaves.
a battery operated radio and extra, fresh batteries  (essential if the power is out for a long period of time).
turn and brown top side.
hot drink use the popped method, #4 above, for developing parched wheat.
roll out to 1/8 to 1/4 inch thin.
sprouts are live plant foods that are biogenic ("life-generating),  which means they transfer their vital life energy to you!
depending on the weather, wind and temperature outside you will need about 4-5 coals underneath for rising the dough.
rotate, enjoy this live food now and keep it alive for the future.
store a minimum of 7 gallons  of water per person for drinking and food preparation.
metal containers, which may corrode, tend to give water an unpleasant taste.
even those using essentially only mechanical filters with a small pore size are very effective.
making your own will save a great deal of money and eliminate harmful preservatives and chemicals used in most mixes) 5.
freeze, not refrigerate, to keep from drying out if not using within a few days.
olive oil is by far the ultimate oil!
powdered milk - although this pasteurized product is not a source of calcium, as the dairy producers would like you to believe, and because many are allergic to it and other dairy products, this is not a priority on our list; however, we will give you information on it and different ways to prepare, in case it is already in your storage.
they are packed with enzymes which aid in digestion and are alkaline-forming.
sourdough bread ingredients: 1 cup yeast (from homemade yeast) 2 tsp.
if you have any doubt as to the bacterial safety of stored water, you may purify it by boiling vigorously for 1-2 minutes, or as mentioned, by adding chlorine bleach.
empty and cleaned  2-liter pop bottles hold up just fine with indoor storage where the temperature  is more constant; however, a 2-liter bottle that has been in the car-trunk  during the heat of the summer and extreme cold of winter will eventually start  to crack.
apple: add to batter 1/2 c finely chopped apple 1/4 tsp.
cooked cereal using a thermos bottle to cook
various herbs for healing: onions, mullein, yarrow, kid-e-well.
rinse and drain the contents of the jar twice a day, once a day, or sometimes i leave it a day  or two and just rinse, drain and let dry out a little before storing in  the fridge.
in summary sprouts are one of the most complete foods known to man, with vitamins,  proteins, minerals, live enzymes, and fiber in their purest form.
girl boy girl boy water (gallons) 1gal.
sprouts are live plant foods that are biogenic ("life-generating), which means they transfer their vital life energy to you!
these can be eaten alone, in salads, with grains, in sandwiches,  gently steamed with veggies, as a snack, or sprinkled over soup.
cook 8 to 10 minutes.
note: if seeds are canned with an oxy pack, many will not  sprout.
(8 1/2 x 4 1/2 x 2 1/2)
bake in preheated waffle iron.
using food storage, ( like our many buckets of the wheat, powdered milk, honey etc.) has stumped us for years".
bake at 350° on cookie sheet sprayed with nonstick cooking spray 20-30 min. or until firm.
filling fill each with equal portions of steamed grain or rice, a taco sauce made from tomato sauce seasoned with onion, garlic, oregano, cayenne, chili powder and cumin or follow this recipe: taco seasoning mix: 2 tsp.
1 c milk add and blend until mixed well: 3 eggs 1/4 c oil 2 tsp.
beans  take longer to sprout, so they need more rinsing.
1 c cracked wheat 1 3/4 c water 1 tsp.
homemade noodles 1 c whole wheat flour 1 large well beaten egg 2 t milk 1/2 tsp.
you can purchase the combination of seeds mentioned above already  mixed for your convenience.
cinnamon waffles 2 eggs (separated-optional) 1-1/4 milk (when using buttermilk, mix with 1/2 tsp. soda) 1/4 c oil 1/2 tsp.
stir several times a day for 5 days in a warm room.
wrap individually with wax paper.
a quart  jar, piece of nylon or wire mesh 2.
peanut butter fudge 2 c peanut butter - plain or crunchy 2 c honey 2 c powdered dry milk (non-instant) heat honey and peanut butter in heavy saucepan over low heat to a very soft, creamy texture, stir constantly or it will burn.
see also "good for you treats" in theadditional recipes section.
sprouts can sustain you!
cut into 1/2 inch strips with a pizza or pastry cutter.
the  morning rinse the lentils well with fresh water, then pour off the water  through the lid or mesh.
we suggest you store about 60 pounds of seeds.
remember that canned fruit and fruit juices also have a high content, and their liquid can count as part of your water supply.
if shortening is used, cut into dry ingredients.
salt, plus additional seasonings if desired 4 t olive or vegetable oil 2 t water mix together.
half as much of sunflower, fenugreek seed and triticale wheat.
soaking and only one day of  sprouting).
they love everything we try from your amazing wheat book.
they are a whole food, nutritious, efficient and the most inexpensive  source of dietary fiber available.
dry flakes out in the oven.
in the morning rinse the lentils well with  fresh water, then pour off the water through the lid or mesh.
score into squares, prick with fork tines a couple of  times in each square.
wash cloth and plate method
when cut in half, makes 3 loaves.
if you use plastic, plan on changing the water every few months, as there is some transfer of toxic materials from some plastics to the water.
store unused yeast in fridge with tight lid.
unleavened bread (this is also called matzah - the hebrew name for unleavened bread)
you've done your fast, easy techniques for preparing whole grains and the use of herbs have opened up a whole new world for us".
crack in blender or nut mill.
start now to introduce sprouts into your diet.
this is approximately 3 gallons per person for 72 hours, or 14 gallons for 2 weeks.
basic vegetable soup blend: this blend is not only great for soups but for flavoring breads also.
pour onto a buttered surface.
in a heavy sauce pan boil 2 c honey to the hard ball stage, 250° on medium heat, stirring constantly, (4-5 minutes).
wheat chips similar to potato chips and made from whole wheat 1 c whole wheat flour 2 c water mix together and season to taste with one of the following: 1/2 tsp.
how to store: water can be stored in any durable non-glass  container designed to store liquids for extended periods.
baking powder 1 3/4 c whole wheat flour (could mix half white)
everyone  should store sprouting seeds and use sprouts in their daily diet.
develop the gluten for 10 min.
in summary, use heavy plastic containers with tight fitting lids.
turn the jar to spread the seeds, then leave the jar upside-down (tilted at a 45 degree angle )
for information on water treatment click here>> seeds for sprouting why sprout?
add carob powder to the basic mixture or baking cocoa * 2 c puffed rice cereal mixed in basic recipe is very good.
they can be stored in clean, dry metal or plastic containers with tight fitting lids.
bake 20-25 minutes at 350 degrees  or till browned and crisp.
mix, season and fry patties.
in the quantity chart below, the pounds indicated are per person, per year.
seeds for sprouting can be stored for long periods of time and can produce many times their weight in fresh produce full of vitamins, minerals, and complete proteins.
serve with milk or juice.
you will need the non- instant dry milk powder to use for making candies, cheeses, etc.
when sprouted, they are much easier to digest and will not produce intestinal gas as they do when cooked.
they can be eaten alone, in salads, with grains, in sandwiches, gently steamed with veggies, as a snack, or sprinkled over soup.
make a dressing with your seasoning blends and olive oil.
in the morning rinse the lentils well with fresh water, then pour off the water through the lid or mesh.
keep remaining dough covered.
dry whole wheat kernels (soft wheat is more tender), raw, green pumpkin seeds (called oriental or pepita pumpkin seeds), and raw, hulled sunflower seeds.
soaking and only one day of sprouting).
of a variety of the above.
salt or other  seasoning with hand food grinder, using the disk that mashes, or grinds the smallest,  grind 1 cup sprouted wheat.
plus - 27 additional cards with a botanical and medical action glossary; guidelines for planting, gathering, harvesting and preparing herbs for use.
try going without the water from your faucets one day and see how you fare with  your emergency water supply.
(sunflower seeds only need 3-6 hrs.
a child, up to age 6, is about half the amount suggested for an adult basic long term food storage plan for one year primary priority food storage items total amount needed for family (goal) male fem.
we recommend storing 25 lbs.of seed per person, in addition to wheat.
commercial sprouting tray method
turn the jar to spread the seeds, then leave the  jar upside-down (tilted at a 45 degree angle )
note: 1 ½ cups a day of mixed sprouts, and alfalfa  that has had a chance to green up a little, will supply you with complete  nutrition and sustain life!
store various grain items that suit your individual circumstances.
you could end up without a water supply if all your glass containers are shattered.
a good mix for this would be equal parts of  alaska pea (better tasting than the garden pea), lentils, mung bean,  adjuki bean.
you could use nylon or fiberglass mesh as a lid, fitted with an elastic band or the ring on the canning jar.)
in 2-3 days the sprouts will be ready to eat.
note: for a variety in your wheat drink, add parched barley and rye to the parched wheat.
they taste good raw or cooked, have no waste.
springs, seeps, appropriately-located cisterns, and wells can also be good sources of water.
scriptures  and legal documents, birth certificates, etc. (waterproofed) 72 hour kit money (include $20, bills and coins in your 72 hr. kit and a months salary  in a save place).
seeds are alive and contain oxygen, but if they are canned and never ariated, they can die from their own carbon dioxide and will not sprout.
cover and let rest 5 minutes for gluten to develop.
it has been used for centuries for many medicinal uses.
knead in only enough flour to keep mixture from sticking.
water treatment: 8 drops of chlorine bleach per gallon of water can be added if the tap water you are storing is not already chlorinated from the public water supply.
"my kids advertise and brag about how good the wheat meat meals are!
for a savory cracker, add onion, garlic or other herb salts.
a carrying strap that is attached to the top of your own 1-liter or 2-liter of water can also be useful.
list # 2 back to top >>
additional items you may want to have on hand: a vitamin,  mineral supplement vegetables and fruits (canned, bottled, dehydrated,  frozen) yeast or yeast starters, and baking supplies first aid  (medicines, natural when possible) fuel (for cooking and heating, lanterns  etc.)
grain  seeds will last for 8-10 years or more, depending on the moisture content of  the grain and atmospheric temperature (must be stored in a cool place for  successful sprouting).
peanut butter fudge 1.
variations: * press an almond in each cut square, a large chocolate chip, dried fruit bits etc.
ground cumin mix together & store in labeled container 4.
salt 1 1/2 t whole wheat flour 5 c vegetable, or your choice, broth 1 c tomato sauce sauté steamed wheat with onions and garlic until lightly browned.
the " do or die" deck consists of 54 classic playing cards to enjoy your favorite games like hearts, blackjack, eucre, solitaire and more!
see sense of survival for diagrams and instructions on making water filters, a well, improvised well pump and finding water in the desert.
they can be eaten alone, in salads, with grains, in sandwiches, gently  steamed with veggies, as a snack, or sprinkled over soup.
commercial sprouting trays i nstructions for preparing items in list #1 water water is more essential than food in sustaining life, and  over the long term needs to be constantly available from an unpolluted source.
it is the ideal way to eat all legumes.
salt or vegetable salt substitute 3-4 t parmesan cheese (optional) 1 t of any seasoning the amazing wheat book (i.e.,taco, barbecue, onion etc.)
salt fry on griddle or heavy fry pan egg and dairy free pancakes 2 c whole wheat flour 2 t baking powder 1 c soy milk 1 t vinegar honey and salt to taste combine and fry on medium heat.
1/2 gallon (2 quarts) for daily drinking and ½ gallon for daily washing.
don't want to wait until an emergency hits.
wheat chips (like potato chips) 7.
salt 2 cups warm water 2 t dry milk 3 ½ cups flour 1 t honey mix well, place ball of soft dough in a nest of flour.
be sure to set goals for first aid, paper products, personal hygiene  items, and spices.
you can purchase the combination of seeds mentioned above already mixed for your convenience.
sprouted grains and beans increase in vitamins a,b,c,e and k. riboflavin  and folic acid increase up to 13 times the original amount present in the  dry seeds.
how to sprout jar method soak 1/3 cup seeds in a 1 quart jar of water  for 6 hours or overnight.
chili powder mix 1/2 c romano grated cheese (in a jar or can- optional) 2 t olive oil 2 c cooked ground grains or rice mix all ingredients except olive oil, cheese, steamed grain or rice; cover.
top with chili or refried beans, and if you have any of the following: grated cheese, green onions, lettuce, thawed and slightly steamed green peas, cooked garbanzo beans, olives etc., with a drizzle of ranch-type dressing on top.
steamed and dried for rolled oats, wheat etc.
nature's medicine chest plant id card series card series include: 100 4x6 cards with over 200 living color photos and close-up's of master herbs which have proven successful over the ages.
learn the difference between look-alike.
chili powder 8 oz can tomato sauce (1 c) 1 #303 can tomatoes (2 c) 3.
this is also  the best way to eat soy and the ideal way to eat all legumes.
for an easy-to-get started program on sprouting, we recommend a company dedicated to producing the best possible product in organic, clean pure sprouting seeds, grains and beans with instructions on how to sprout, and nutritional aspects for the different seeds.
how much to store: water storage should take top priority in  emergency preparedness.
sprouting makes it easier to digest and adds enzymes that change the  starches to sugars and proteins to amino acids.
if you cannot store all of the above try the following short term food lists water seeds (organic, non-treated, used for sprouting) tools for sprouting (any of the following): 1.
recipe: 4 1/2 cups warm water 1/3 cup oil 2 t salt 3 t yeast- added to 1/2 cup warm water and 1t honey 11-12 cups flour
a good bean mix - equal parts  of alaska pea (better tasting than the garden pea), lentils, mung bean,  adjuki bean.
oil (100% virgin olive oil, not  light) shortening stores well but is made of harmful chemicals.
sprouts can be  grown in your kitchen (from beans, lentils, grains, seeds, almonds) in any  season, providing you with fresh organic produce when no other garden is  available.
an excellent combination to put with the alfalfa is red clover, cabbage, and radish.
if desired, patties may be dipped in egg or breaded first before browning.
basic pancake recipe 1 1/4 c whole wheat flour 2 tsp.
grains/seeds - grains include wheat, rice, rolled oats, dried corn, pearled barley and other cereal grains.
wash cloth, plate, cake pan 3.
be sure your choice has live enzymes included (use according to  directions)
sprinkle with toasted sesame seeds if desired.
let steep, strain and serve with milk and honey.
the volume increases 3-4 times the original amount when sprouted!
note: use vegetable oil on hands to keep dough from sticking 11.
if you store it away from sunlight in clean containers, and if it is safe bacterially at the time of storage, water will remain pure indefinitely.
to be safe for culinary use, water must be rendered chemically and biologically harmless.
store in small containers.
cooked cereal  (whole, cracked, rolled - with  stove or thermos) 2.
if  possible, use non-breakable containers for your water storage.
for a delightful change)
real salt or, a proven safe, sea salt is best.
if you cannot store all of the above try the following short  term food lists list #1 back to top  >>
variations: add peanut butter, nuts, coconut, dried fruit, carob, flavorings, food coloring, chocolate or carob chips, or crispy rice cereal.
become self-reliant and learn to survive with mother nature?s plants.
on top of the cloth, sprinkle unsoaked seeds, touching each other, on top of the cloth and cover with another cloth rest the plate on a shallow pan containing water, with one end of the cloth hanging down into the water.
bake 1 hour at 325 degrees.
for a savory cracker, add onion,  garlic or other herb salts.
contact life sprouts 1-800-241-1516 some of the easiest sprouts to grow are: alfalfa, mung bean, chick  pea, green or pink lentil, sesame, sunflower, almond, buckwheat, and wheat.
some of the suggestions may not meet your special needs, but you can adapt them, with the  unique and healthful recipes given.
makes about 24 tortillas.
note: the thinner the batter, the more crisp the chips.
cooking equipment (stoves, pans, grinders, etc.)
mix in bowl till flour is wet: 5 1/2 c hot tap water (140° f) 1/3 c honey 5 c whole wheat flour 1/2-1 c gluten flour (optional, used to produce a higher raised bread)
most grains can be stored in tightly sealed metal or heavy plastic containers.
uncover; add remaining ingredients and heat through.
it can be used in place of meat, rice dishes and other recipes to replace a ground meat.
stir and knead enough dry milk into the honey to make a firm ball.
seasonings basic sausage or mock beef seasoning mix a versatile, unique blend used for a sausage flavor as well as a substitute for beef flavor.
start  now to introduce sprouts into your diet.
the right water purifier would remove harmful bacteria, protozoa, amoebae, viruses, fibers, sediment (microscopic particles of dirt, rust, scale, radioactive particles etc.), organics, and other agents such as chlorine and radioactive gasses.
oil - fat is essential to every diet.
acquire info on how to combine the above foods for complete protein soul foods foods that give a psychological lift; nuts, candy, dried foods, peanut  butter, etc. *
it may be a food you need to get use to, but as you do you will learn to really enjoy the taste, the energy and the feeling of well-being they give you.
salt and  /or other seasonings (garlic and onion salt or powder, and a basic blend  (seasonal, taco, chili pwd.
a good supply of sprouting seeds could be one of the most important items in your food storage.
when preparing outdoors, you could pound with  tamper on hollowed-out log or rock.
turn oven up to 350 degrees and bake for about 30 minutes or until top and bottom crust are brown.
there will be small bubbles coming to the top and it will have a yeasty aroma.
meatballs,veggie burger 4.
it will be a very soft dough.
baking powder 1/2 tsp.
place the satin-smooth dough to rise for about 5 hours at room temperature, about 72 degrees or until it doubles in bulk.
this is a slower method and to be  used if a jar or sprouting trays are not available.
on top of stove (for cream of wheat)
seeds for  sprouting can be stored for long periods of time and can produce many times  their weight in fresh produce full of vitamins, minerals, and complete  proteins.
this will act as a wick and draw up the water to keep  the wheat moist and will sprout.
cooked cereal (whole, cracked, rolled - with stove or thermos) 2.
brown in oiled skillet.
add remaining ingredients and simmer to heat , stirring frequently.
neither affects the safety of the product.
italian seasoning 1/2 tsp.
they are  organic and guaranteed to sprout.
pour this water out and add equal amounts of boiling water and whole kernel wheat (or any other grain) to the warmed thermos.
beans take longer to sprout, so they need more rinsing.
in time of emergency, your source of heat may not be available and you will be forced to search for an alternate method of heating or using your food.
sweetening add: 1 ½ c very hot water (add more if necessary to make dough pliable) quickly work ingredients together and knead for a few minutes.
you could use nylon or fiberglass mesh as a lid, fitted with an elastic band or the ring on the canning jar.)in the morning rinse the lentils well with fresh water, then pour off the water through the lid or mesh.
in a heavy fry pan (with no oil) over medium-high heat, pop (stirring and/or shaking constantly) 1 cup each of any or all of the following until lightly browned and popping sounds have almost stopped:
put in fridge or freezer till cool and slightly firm.
in a 14 inch dutch oven mix together with a potato masher and work with hands into a manageable dough.
empty plastic milk jugs are  food-grade, but they may start leaking over a period of time.
medicinal, edible and poisonous plants.
on a lightly floured surface roll dough until very thin, to about 18x20 inches.
everyone should store organic sprouting seeds and use sprouts in their daily diet.
photos on one side; description, sketch and use on opposite side.
spread mashed mixture onto well greased or pam'd cookie sheet.
a filling for egg omelets warmed in butter and seasoning ground with dried fruits such as raisins, dates, figs, apricots, etc.,  formed into balls and rolled in unsweetened coconut.
hot drink (coffee replacement) 6.
it is  important; however, to ariate every 2 years, by pouring the stored seeds into  another clean bucket and then back again.
salt - use a pure, not iodized, product.
pour mixture into squirt bottle, as shown in the quick wholesome foods video,and squirt onto nonstick sprayed cookie sheet in potato chip shapes.
sprouts can be grown in your kitchen (from beans, lentils, grains, seeds, almonds) in any season, providing you with fresh organic produce when no other garden is available.
this is good eaten plain or sprinkled over sliced banana, ice cream, pudding etc.
try going without the water from your faucets one day and see how you fare with your emergency water supply.
common plants found around the world or in your own back yard.
store foods that will build your immune system, give you energy and keep you healthy!
roll out very thin, at least ¼ inch.
oil (100% virgin olive oil, not light) shortening stores well but is made of harmful chemicals.
you could make the following: 1.
a gift that lasts, a gift of learning.
you may decide, like we did, to dejunk more  storage areas and make room for more water!
a battery operated radio and extra, fresh batteries (essential if the power is out for a long period of time).
tortillas 4 c flour 1 t baking powder 1 tsp.
salt and /or other seasonings (garlic and onion salt or powder, and a basic blend (seasonal, taco, chili pwd.
contact life sprouts 1-800-241-1516 some of the easiest sprouts to grow are: alfalfa, mung bean, chick pea, green or pink lentil, sesame, sunflower, almond, buckwheat, and wheat.
dumplings blend together: 2/3 c whole wheat flour 1 tsp.
this makes a blend similar to postum.
(at this point, if you have any of the following, you may add: dried chopped fruit, nuts, seeds, coconut, carob or chocolate chips, rice crispies etc.)
when you eat junk foods, good food has no appeal.
by kneading or pounding.
this makes a very nutritious and filling meal.
may be turned over, bake until brown.
those who are in the know urge canneries to not can or use oxy packs for grains.
dutch oven bread with a hand-crank wheat mill, it takes about 30 minutes to grind enough wheat into flour for 3 loaves of bread.
note: you may have to add a little more water when using whole wheat.
salt (add after wheat has cooked) place water and cracked wheat in heavy sauce pan, bring to full boil, cover, turn off heat and let stand 15 minutes or till water is absorbed.
this is good eaten plain or sprinkled  over sliced banana, ice cream, pudding etc.
this will depend on the seed or bean  you are sprouting.
for outdoor cooking, spread out on rock or flat wood surface in the hot sun about 2-3 hours until crisp and crunchy.
knead with an electric bread mixer for 6 minutes or by hand about 10 minutes (300 kneadings)
score into squares with warmed knife.
whole honey, is safe for everyone and will last longer in storage, although it may crystallize and/or darken.
to activate it before using again add 2-3 tablespoons each flour and water and stir.
chili powder 1/2 tsp.
before putting in the refrigerator.
flavor with 12 drops oil of anise or your choice of flavor (also optional).
- lori egbert 5 foods that sustain life inexpensive and life giving the availability and storage life of these 5 foods are excellent.
cracked wheat is wheat kernels that have been very coarsely ground.
allow to rise again for about 3 hours.
the kernels will be large and tender
on top of the cloth, sprinkle unsoaked seeds, touching  each other, on top of the cloth and cover with another cloth rest the  plate on a shallow pan containing water, with one end of the cloth hanging  down into the water.
place a wash cloth or  terry cloth on a plate.
scriptures and legal documents, birth certificates, etc. (waterproofed) 72 hour kit money (include $20, bills and coins in your 72 hr. kit and a months salary in a save place).
"we applaud your work and greatly appreciate the time and effort and helping other to benefit from your creative recipes".
tuck into a tight ball-shape and place in center of greased bread pan.
note: this cooked cracked grain makes a flaky, tender breakfast cereal.
activated carbon contained in many of the purification devices will remove moist of these contaminates.
in the event of nuclear war, when fallout is a problem, the dissolved and undissolved radiation particles should be removed from the water to the greatest extent possible before other purification measures are taken.
printable version - click>>
c increases up to 600% in some cases.
mix all moist ingredients with electric beaters.
in summary how to sprout jar method soak 1/3 cup seeds in a 1 quart jar of water for 6 hours or overnight.
dried oregano leaves 1/2 tsp.
pour into bowl of the powdered milk and stir till thoroughly mixed, kneading with hands until pliable.
cut into bite-size pieces.
when  sprouted, they are much easier to digest and will not produce intestinal gas as  they do when cooked.
basic whole wheat bread recipe this recipe makes 5 loaves.
if sesame seeds are available, sprinkle on rolled out wheat sprout dough before baking.
they are organic and guaranteed to sprout.
the dutch oven works well enough to mix the ingredients, knead the dough, let it rise mix the ingredients with a potato masher.
water can be drawn from the lowest faucet in the house (usually the water heater or water tank) if the highest facet is opened a bit to let air into the pipes.
outdoor survival tips, fire pit cooking, shelters, first-aid and more... only $24.95 nature's medicine chest on cd-rom - $12.95 each deck of 54 cards show full color reprints of mushrooms, wild, edible, medicinal and poisonous plants, with description and use information.
form into rolls and let stand again.
(or roll out on oiled counter and cut into desired shapes).
instant minced onion 1/2 tsp.
individual cartons of fruit or fruit juice are great for a 72-hour kit.
store sprouts in the refrigerator in a glass jar, sealed plastic bag or a plastic container.
sanitary  supplies (toilet paper and personals) personal care (dental necessities,  shampoo, hair spray etc.)
let the dough rise only once, then increase the coals for cooking.
reduce heat; simmer 15-20 min, stirring occasionally.
veggie burger mix ingredients together and form into patty shape.
a quart jar, piece of nylon or wire mesh 2.
add salt and honey to taste.
* roll small balls in toasted coconut or chopped nuts * chopped dried fruit and seeds may be added *
if you have list #1 and #2 ...plus: plus these tools: bread pans, oil spray, rolling pin, cookie sheet, sauce pans, bowls, knives.
note: to keep dough from sticking to rolling pin, place freezer paper or  brown bag paper on top of dough, then roll out thin.
stove with oven; honey squeeze bottle.
you probably eat as much for  the pleasure that food brings as you do to satisfy your hunger.
the mashed wheat can be  flavored to make a sweet cracker by adding a little cinnamon, honey, brown  sugar, or sweetener of your choice.
systems using iodine probable give the most complete bacteriological protection.
if candy is to be stored, let pieces stand to dry slightly (to prevent sticking) before piling on top of each other.
be sure to set goals for first aid, paper products, personal hygiene items, and spices.
if you could only store two foods, these  would be the most important!
note: to keep dough from sticking to rolling pin, place freezer paper or brown bag paper on top of dough, then roll out thin.
add and mix for l5 seconds: 3 t yeast add: 2/3 c oil (olive or vegetable ) 3 t lemon juice or 50 mg.
mix together, add ½ teaspoon oil and season with salt, onion or garlic salt, herb seasonings, or any seasoning of your choice.
bake 20-25 minutes at 350 degrees or till browned and crisp.
"we appreciate the simplicity and style in your amazing wheat book.
it can be stored in its original container in a cool, dry place.
it is nutritious, healing and has the longest shelf life.
they are easy to grow, some in as little as one day.
add 1-2 teaspoons parched wheat to 1 cup boiling water.
during an emergency you will have a number of basic needs such as alternate methods of cooking; some method of preserving perishable food; and a supply of foods that require little or no preparation or refrigeration.
in a sauce pan bring to boil: 1 c water gradually add the first mixture stirring continuously on a low boil until thick, about 1 minute.
on top of stove (for cracked wheat).
note: for a more firm texture add 1/4-1/2 c more dry powdered milk.
note: if a disaster disrupts the electricity needed to pump the water to your home, there should be a sufficient amount for drinking and food preparation stored within the pipes in the house to last for a short period , if used sparingly.
note: sprouts are the single most important item left out of our  diet for healthy living.
salads (using sprouted seeds)
spaghetti 2 garlic cloves, minced or garlic powder 1 onion, finely chopped, or dried 2 c tomato sauce (15 oz can) 1 1/2 c tomato paste (12 oz can) 2 t worcestershire sauce 2 c stewed tomatoes 3 c water 3 tsp.
you may decide, like we did, to dejunk more storage areas and make room for more water!
wheat kernel pancakes blend in liquefier, 4 min: 1 c whole kernel wheat (not cooked)
instant minced garlic 1/4 tsp.
(could also use cooked black or red rice) add to any dish.
anyone can store canned goods.
a sprout sweet treat mix two parts wheat sprouts (not older than 2-3 days) to one part coconut.
1 c each chopped dehydrated carrots, onions, tomatoes and celery including tops.
each baking powder and soda 1/3 c olive or vegetable oil 3/4 c cold water cut flour, salt, soda & oil with fork or pastry cutter to a corn meal texture and add water.
try 3 drops oil of peppermint and ¼ teaspoon green food coloring; ½ teaspoon raspberry or strawberry flavoring and ¼ teaspoon red food coloring; ½ teaspoon black walnut flavoring.
generally, ½ a teaspoon of bleach will purify 5 gallons of clear water, and 1 teaspoon will purify 5 gallons of cloudy water.
everyone should  store organic sprouting seeds and use sprouts in their daily diet.
it may be a food you need to get  use to, but as you do you will learn to really enjoy the taste, the energy  and the feeling of well-being they give you.
stir together: 1 c coarse flour (a germade or farina texture) 1 c cool water
when cool enough to handle, butter hands and start pulling as you do for taffy.
(special sprouting jars with drainage lids can be obtained at health food stores.
if you have list #1 ...plus: whole grains (wheat, oats, barley, rice etc.)
the " wild and free"deck contains 4 games (similar to rook, old maid, golf, fish).
when preparing outdoors, you could pound with tamper on hollowed-out log or rock.
for cooking use 8 to 10 briquettes under and 12 to 14 on top.
stir ingredients together.
place steaming hot in center of warm plate of hot boiled pasta.
turn the jar to spread the seeds, then leave the jar upside- down (tilted at a 45 degree angle ) in a dark, warm place, to continue draining.
it is important; however, to ariate every 2 years, by pouring the stored seeds into another clean bucket and then back again.
if possible, use non-breakable containers for your water storage.
if rolls flatten out, gather up and knead more milk into it.
commercial sprouting trays (see instructions below) water water is more essential than food in sustaining life, and over the long term needs to be constantly available from an unpolluted source.
in 24 hours the yeast will be ready again.
great for home schooling, concentration skills, public schools, libraries, for camping, scouting, and field trips.
how to store: water can be stored in any durable non-glass container designed to store liquids for extended periods.
laundry soap (including clorox bleach, vinegar, natural cleaners)
1 c sprouted wheat (about 1/4 inch long sprout) 1 tsp. salt or other seasoning with hand food grinder, using the disk that mashes, or grinds the smallest, grind 1 cup sprouted wheat.
chili 4 c steamed wheat or rice 1 onion, chopped 1 clove garlic, minced 2 t cooking oil 2 tsp.
dry basil, thyme or dill weed (optional) mix together and pour into above mixture: 1/4 c milk 2 t oil stir with fork until combined and drop with a tablespoon into simmering soup or stew.
roll out to  1/8th inch thick.
score into squares, prick with fork tines a couple of times in each square.
salt 1 egg, beaten 1 c milk 2 t oil mix together and fry on hot griddle.
empty and cleaned 2-liter pop bottles hold up just fine with indoor storage where the temperature is more constant; however, a 2-liter bottle that has been in the car-trunk during the heat of the summer and extreme cold of winter will eventually start to crack.
some are more effective than others.
other sources of water: lakes, ponds, ditches, and streams all have water, but it should be rendered safe before being used.
additional items you may want to have on hand: a vitamin, mineral supplement vegetables and fruits (canned, bottled, dehydrated, frozen) yeast or yeast starters, and baking supplies first aid (medicines, natural when possible) fuel (for cooking and heating, lanterns etc.)
stored with diatomaceous earth (which is a natural insect killer).
metal  containers, which may corrode, tend to give water an unpleasant taste.
shape into 3 oval loaves or use small bread pans about 3 ½ " x 7 ½".
to experience some simple sprouts, try lentils.
store a minimum of 7 gallons of water per person for drinking and food preparation.
as you introduce real food into your diet, your taste buds change.
they can grow anywhere, needs neither soil nor sunshine, and flourishes in  any climate, during any season of the year, and ready to harvest in 1-5  days.
they will keep for about a week.
bake on a hot ungreased fry pan or griddle.
one of the very best foods you can eat is sprouts.
seeds are alive and contain oxygen,  but if they are canned and never ariated, they can die from their own carbon  dioxide and will not sprout.
drop into boiling soup or water.
rinse and drain the contents of the jar twice a day, once a day, or sometimes i leave it a day or two and just rinse, drain and let dry out a little before storing in the fridge.
honey which has had water added to it (to keep it more liquid and easier to pour) should not be used for babies, as it can contain a bacteria that could be unsafe.
but realistically, in case of severe emergency, plan to have enough water to sustain your family fortwo weeks.
c) 1 t salt add seasonings for a variety of flavors at this point (see following recipes.)
store sprouts in the refrigerator in a glass jar, sealed  plastic bag or a plastic container.
this makes a very nutritious and  filling meal.
in a dark, warm place, to  continue draining.
vegetable seeds are good for only 5-7 years.
burger made from cracked wheat: 2 c cooked cracked wheat 1/2 c chopped onion 2 t dry non-instant milk 2 eggs, beaten salt, pepper,onion and garlic salt or your choice of seasoning.
sprouted wheat crackers (the method for making sprouted wheat crackers and cooking in the sun, comes from the dead sea scrolls)
other suggested uses * addition to bread dough (ground fine)
grain seeds will last for 8-10 years or more, depending on the moisture content of the grain and atmospheric temperature (must be stored in a cool place for successful sprouting).
steam the desired grain, for rolling, until tender.
soak 1/3 cup green lentils  overnight, preferable in purified water, in a 1 quart jar.
homemade yeast mix together 1 c each whole wheat flour, warm water and 2 tsp.
store an additional  seven gallons per person of the same quality water for bathing, brushing teeth,  and dishwashing.
note: if seeds are canned with an oxy pack, many will not sprout.
rising time, about thirty minutes.
noodles could be added.
soups use the recipe below for the seasoning and add whatever vegetables you have stored, into water.
variation by adding flour: 2 cups mashed wheat sprouts 1/2  cup whole wheat, or other grain, flour 1/2 tsp.
a sprout sweet treat mix two parts wheat sprouts (not older  than 2-3 days) to one part coconut.
then, if it crystallizes, you can immerse the containers in hot (not boiling) water to reliquify it.
if you have stored the instant, it can be reduced to non instant by blending, it in the blender, to a powder form.
a lettuce replacement - equal parts of red clover, cabbage, radish and twice the amount of alfalfa.
roll thin with a heavy rolling pin.
sanitary supplies (toilet paper and personals) personal care (dental necessities, shampoo, hair spray etc.)
for an easy-to-get  started program on sprouting, we recommend a company dedicated to producing the best possible product in organic, clean pure sprouting seeds,  grains and beans with instructions on how to sprout, and nutritional  aspects for the different seeds.
wheat, when it is sprouted, takes on a slightly sweet flavor; however, they  can become quite strong as they get older.
3 cups matzah meal (or a flour the texture of corn meal)
powdered milk candy 8.
you can add sesame seeds, poppy seeds, additional salt etc.
other suggested uses * addition to bread dough (ground fine) whole grains (wheat, oats, barley, rice etc.)
cold pressed is the best but costs more.
it was named appropriately!"
rotate, enjoy this live food now and keep it alive  for the future.
form into balls (could use a regular size ice cream scoop).
bake in 350° oven for 15-20 minutes or till  browned and crispy.
roll out to 1/8th inch thick.
meat replacement use cooked crack wheat for a ground meat replacement.
store sprouts in the  refrigerator in a glass jar, sealed plastic bag or a plastic container.
a good supply of sprouting seeds could be one of the  most important items in your food storage.
rinse and drain occasionally if they are  not used up within a week.
salt, plus additional  seasonings if desired 4 t olive or vegetable oil 2 t water mix together.
salads add sprouts to a tossed salad or to a blend of grated raw vegetables (try yams, red beets, turnips, jicama, peeled broccoli spears etc.
wheat, when it is sprouted, takes on a slightly sweet flavor; however, they can become quite strong as they get older.
powdered milk candy (honey taffy)
put a new 2-liter bottle of water in your car trunk at the change of extreme hot and extreme cold weather.
roll out thin like a pie crust.
you could use nylon or fiberglass mesh  as a lid, fitted with an elastic band or the ring on the canning jar.)in
now after 3 years of eating healthier and saving at least $10,000 on my grocery bill, i am singing its praises to everyone i see!"
variation by adding flour: 2 cups mashed wheat sprouts 1/2 cup whole wheat, or other grain, flour 1/2 tsp.
to keep it going: feed the starter after the 5th day (to replace what you have used) by adding equal parts flour an water (or potato water).
contact alan south for the ideal water-purifiers 1-877-767-4382
place a wash cloth or terry cloth on a plate.
basic guide for seasoning with herbs basic bran muffin bar-b-q sauce bulgar wheat buttermilk dressing coconut crisps cucumber dressing filled cookies good for you treats graham crackers green pepper bake healthy replacement herb seasoning salt herb seasoning for salads honey taffy indian fry bread instead of salt italian dressing mix mayonnaise milk from grains and seeds onion soup mix oriental seasoning mix peanut butter almond cookies perfect sourdough bread quick rolls ranch dressing & mix sloppy joe seasoning mix sprouted wheat crackers vegetarian seasoning mix wheat chips wheat grass wheat meat with gluten whole wheat biscuits whole wheat pie crust wild herbs for seasoning yam pie water is more essential than food in sustaining life, and over the long term needs to be constantly available from an unpolluted source.
makes 8 ounces or 3 cups and the cost is about eleven cents.
roll out on a cookie sheet.
basic meatball or burger recipe 2 c steamed cracked or whole grain or rice 3 t finely minced onion or 1 t dry minced onion 1 t seasoning mix 2 t flour 1-2 eggs, beaten 2 t oil (olive best) salt and pepper to taste mix ingredients together and form into balls.
salt 1 t snipped parsley (or 1 1/2 tsp.
note: sprouts are the single most important item left out of our diet for healthy living.
this is a slower method and to be used if a jar or sprouting trays are not available.
(basic candy) 1 ½ cups non instant dry milk ½ cup honey (whipped honey works well in this recipe)
if the tap water you use is already chlorinated, just put that water directly into you clean, food-grad container with out adding extra chlorine bleach.
these can be used in the form of sprouting or planting.
some of the suggestions may not meet your special needs, but you can adapt them, with the unique and healthful recipes given.
place in bottle, leave uncovered.
if you use plastic,  plan on changing the water every few months, as there is some transfer of toxic  materials from some plastics to the water.
put a new 2-liter bottle of water in your car trunk at the change of  extreme hot and extreme cold weather.
you could bake this in a loaf pan or in a round ball.
essential food storage - for emergencies and every day living basic food storage list - long term storage plan - short term storage list #1- list #2 - list #3 - recipes - water be prepared and fear
follow cooking instructions above.
cooking time is approximately 35 minutes.
two of the most  important amino acids necessary for the body to manufacture proteins are  lysine and tryptophan, which are also increased significantly.
a good mix for this would be equal parts of alaska pea (better tasting than the garden pea), lentils, mung bean, adjuki bean.
bake in 350° oven for 15-20 minutes or till browned and crispy.
the best type use ceramic cartridges, sup glass and/or carbon for filtering with silver, iodine or chlorine to kill bacteria.
check occasionally and turn chips over if middle is not cooking as fast as the outside.
cut with knife or pizza cutter into squares.
how much to store: water storage should take top priority in emergency preparedness.
an excellent combination to put with the alfalfa is red clover, cabbage, and  radish.
water (enough to make it pliable) pinch of salt knead together until soft and fine.
the items we suggest, to store, are not only the most inexpensive and easiest foods to store, but also thebest foods you can store.
indian fry bread mix together: 4 c flour (could use ½ white if available) ½ c non instant powdered milk 2 tsp.
place ½ cup or less wheat kernels in fry pan on high heat, stirring constantly until the wheat gets quite dark.
a lettuce replacement - equal parts of red clover, cabbage, radish  and twice the amount of alfalfa.
this will depend on the seed or bean you are sprouting.
bake immediately at 400 until lightly browned.
salt 1/3 c oil 1 1/8 c warm water mix together and knead gently just to get the dough together.
rinse and drain occasionally if they are not used up within a week.
basic cracker recipe 2 c whole wheat flour 1 tsp. salt (or desired seasoning, i.e., garlic or onion salt etc.)
sprouting changes the texture of dried beans and legumes so that they can  be easily chewed and digested with little or no cooking.
bake at 350° for 10-15 minutes or until crisp.
let dry about l-1/2 hours.
as with those at the time of joseph of egypt only those with access to food storage will survive producing and storing food and water may be as essential to our temporal welfare today as boarding the ark was to the people in the days of noah!
add flavorings and food coloring to honey and mix well before adding the dry milk.
bake at 350° for 10 to 12 minutes.
you can add sesame seeds, poppy seeds, additional salt  etc.
turn the jar  to spread the seeds, then leave the jar upside- down (tilted at a 45  degree angle ) in a dark, warm place, to continue draining.
when sprouted,  they are much easier to digest and will cook in half the time.
the mashed wheat can be flavored to make a sweet cracker by adding a little cinnamon, honey, brown sugar, or sweetener of your choice.
store an additional seven gallons per person of the same quality water for bathing, brushing teeth, and dishwashing.
stir well but don't over mix.
water seeds (organic, non-treated, used for sprouting) tools for sprouting (any of the following): 1.
take off heat add 1 t butter and 1 teaspoon soda (optional).
honey milk powder, non instant plus these tools for preparing: fry pan; sauce pan; cookie sheet; wire strainer; hand grain mill (that will crack and grind grains into flour);
3/4 c each salt and sage 1/4 c each: ground rosemary, thyme, marjoram, basil 2 t each: cayenne and garlic powder 2 tsp black pepper 3 t dry minced onion combine together and store in labeled container.
when cooking and doing dishes without the modern kitchen, you will want to keep the effort and mess to a minimum.
this could include a variety of beans, peas, lentils.
they will keep for over a week.
bake as above for wheat chips 7.
rinse and drain the contents of the jar once a day, or  sometimes i leave it a day or two and just rinse, drain and let dry out a  little before storing in the fridge.
flour, cornmeal, and pasta products such as macaroni and spaghetti could also be included.
nuts can be added;  also grated orange rind with a little juice to hold the balls together.
if you don't have one from an emergency preparedness store, a heavy string or strip of fabric could easily be substituted.
place on wire rack to cool.
this is approximately 3 gallons per person for 72 hours, or 14  gallons for 2 weeks.
each onion and garlic salt 1 tsp.
(5 hours is the usually time for sour dough to raise.
stretch and form into pencil size rolls.
basic short  term food storage
during an emergency you will have a number of basic needs such as alternate  methods of cooking; some method of preserving perishable food; and a  supply of foods that require little or no preparation or refrigeration.
recipes for list # 1 (the method for making sprouted  wheat crackers and cooking in the sun, comes from the dead sea  scrolls) 1 c sprouted wheat (about 1/4 inch long sprout)
a good bean mix - equal parts of alaska pea (better tasting than the garden pea), lentils, mung bean, adjuki bean.
note: 1 ½ cups a day of mixed sprouts, and alfalfa that has had a chance to green up a little, will supply you with complete nutrition and sustain life!
this will act as a wick and draw up the water to keep the wheat moist and will sprout.
usu research indicates that the water should last for at least 10 years.
store other basic seasoning mixes for a variety, (such as chili powder, spaghetti, taco mixes etc.
empty plastic milk jugs are food-grade, but they may start leaking over a period of time.
garlic powder or crushed garlic clove 1/2 tsp.
you will find you crave sweets less, and good food more.
to keep firm, store in cool place.
1 gallon per day per person is the recommended minimum.
testimonials from those who have used her books and videos in preparing whole foods "the amazing wheat book was my first experience in vegetarian recipes.
so, if you have such a water-storage container, take the cardboard liner out before you store water.
warm the thermos first by pouring boiling water into it for about 5 minutes.
sift out any flour found in cracked wheat by shaking it through a fine wire strainer (these fine particles can be used in other recipes and makes a quick cream of wheat cereal).
crushed dried red pepper 1 tsp.
(see instructions for these, and more, bread making tips on the quick wholesome foods video-back of book) place in a warn oven (125 degrees), let rise to double in bulk.
for cold cereal flakes: season batter only with salt to taste and a little sweetening if desired.
- leanne geertson adamson "you are an answer to our prayers, and you will be blessed for all
store in plastic bags.
recipes are found in the amazing wheat book by learta moulton, who has been perfecting whole food cooking, over the past 30 years, to make them easy and fast to prepare, with tastes the whole family will love.
take pieces from ball of dough, pull and stretch with hands into a circle of about 6-8 inches.
store at least 60 lbs.
for a light and crisp texture,separate the eggs and beat.
cook 10-12 minutes or till a toothpick comes out clean 8.
honey (or substitute) - purchase raw, unfiltered honey when possible.
see also theadditional recipes section.
(special sprouting jars with drainage lids can  be obtained at health food stores.
secure lid and leave overnight or at least for 8-10 hours.
only 1 ½ cups of a sprouted seed per day can sustain life very adequately, for as long as you like.
it would be wise to store 325 lbs.
protein source acquire info on how to combine the above foods for complete protein soul foods foods that give a psychological lift; nuts, candy, dried foods, peanut butter, etc. *
salt combine flour, egg, milk and salt to make a stiff ball of dough.
2 other important storage foods: legumes - an inexpensive, nutritious protein food.
trail mix (popped grains and seeds)
per person per day (2 week min. supply) 14 14 14 14 combined grains 300 200 70 100 160 210 220 280 200 335 sprouting seeds 60 60 30 30 30 40 50 60 50 60 legumes 35 30 15 20 30 35 35 45 35 55 honey 30 20 15 20 25 30 30 40 30 50 salt 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 non instant dried milk 55 45 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 oils, fats, 30 25 25 20 20 30 30 40 20 45 vitamin supplement be sure your choice has live enzymes included (use according to directions)
1/4 c each chopped dehydrated red and green peppers and spinach store in container at room temperature.
serves 12 sauce variation: 1 tsp.
laundry soap (including clorox bleach, vinegar,  natural cleaners)
note: you can add parched wheat to liquids for darkening broths and gravies.
use only 100% virgin oil, not light.
roll into balls or pat down in cookie sheets, baking pans, or anything flat with sides.
if the bread is too moist you can crack the lid for the last 5 to 10 minutes of the cooking time.
in 2-3 days the sprouts  will be ready to eat.
for outdoor cooking, spread out on rock or flat wood  surface in the hot sun about 2-3 hours until crisp and crunchy.
soda 1 t honey or sugar 1/4 tsp.