i bought two boxes after not  buying any for months!
this recipe made it so loose that it was kinda spoonable, with no structural  integrity at all.
i think i may watch my dvred copy of good eats’ casserole show and revamp this.
but here’s the original recipe: swiss cheese, ham, and asparagus bake preheat oven to 350°f.
( log out / change ) you are commenting using your twitter account.
i think i may watch my dvred copy of good  eats’ casserole show and revamp this.
it tasted pretty good, but was  mostly a way to use up some of the frozen leftover ham, and take advantage of a  sale on yummy spring asparagus.
you are commenting using your wordpress.com account.
it tasted pretty good, but was mostly a way to use up some of the frozen leftover ham, and take advantage of a sale on yummy spring asparagus.
and i would definitely pack it a little tighter.
the  interesting thing is that there was actually enough leftover to have some in  everyone’s bento for today!
but here’s the original recipe: swiss cheese,  ham, and asparagus bake 1 pkg.
but that is such a guilty pleasure of mine.
more carbs than a low carb diet, but less food overall.
which is why i hope adopting more asian styles in my life will help.
mix ham, asparagus, soup and milk in 13×9-inch baking dish; sprinkle with cheese.
it was nice having a minimum of dishes to do last night,  though.
(  log out / change ) you are commenting using your facebook account.
permalink fill in your details below or click an icon to log in: you are commenting using your wordpress.com account.
there are some shortcuts i like – using salad dressing instead of oil to pan fry things in – that i picked up from kf&f, but some like using cream of blah soup, i wish i had never heard of.
it doesn’t make much economic sense to  use $0.99/lb leftover ham, $1.47/lb asparagus, and then a $2 box of stuffing  and a $2 can of soup . . .
there are some  shortcuts i like – using salad dressing instead of oil to pan fry things  in – that i picked up from kf&f, but some like using cream of blah  soup, i wish i had never heard of.
like this: be the first to like this post.
freezer cooking and other adventures posted in main dish, recipes at 8:25 am by scout mmmmm, processed foods from kraft food and family.
same with stuffing . . .
add 1-1/2 cups hot water to stuffing mix in medium bowl; stir just until moistened.
get every new post delivered to your inbox.
bake 30 min. or until heated through and golden brown  on top.
i bought two boxes after not buying any for months!
more carbs than a low carb diet, but less  food overall.
it was nice having a minimum of dishes to do last night, though.
yeah, i never quite could hang to the atkins/ low carb  idea . . .
which is why i hope adopting more  asian styles in my life will help.
add 1-1/2 cups hot water to stuffing mix in  medium bowl; stir just until moistened.
yeah, i never quite could hang to the atkins/ low carb idea . . .
this recipe made it so loose that it was kinda spoonable, with no structural integrity at all.
and if dd had her way, she would eat it morning, noon, and night.
and this is the only kind i actually like the taste of.
cancel connecting to %s notify me of follow-up comments via email.
it doesn’t make much economic sense to use $0.99/lb leftover ham, $1.47/lb asparagus, and then a $2 box of stuffing and a $2 can of soup . . .
powered by wordpress.com
it’s not that i want to make my life  harder.
it’s that i want to make my life healthier and i can’t  imagine that ingesting a bunch of chemicals i can’t pronouce is going to  make my life healthier, even if they are the “healthy request” or  whatever it is called versions.
freezer cooking and other adventures 04.25.07 swiss cheese, ham and asparagus bake posted in main dish, recipes at 8:25 am by scout mmmmm, processed foods from kraft food and family.
and if dd had her way, she would eat it morning, noon,  and night.
i love carbs, waaaaaay too much.
fill in your details below or click an icon to log in: email (required) (address never made public)
it’s not that i want to make my life harder.
you are commenting using your twitter account.
i served this with a green salad and mac and cheese – yes, the nuclear orange kind, i’m trying, damn it!
you are commenting using your facebook account.
permalink leave a reply cancel reply enter your comment here...
bake 30 min. or until heated through and golden brown on top.
but that is such a  guilty pleasure of mine.
(  log out / change ) cancel notify me of follow-up comments via email.
mix ham,  asparagus, soup and milk in 13×9-inch baking dish; sprinkle with cheese.
the interesting thing is that there was actually enough leftover to have some in everyone’s bento for today!
i served this with a green salad and mac and cheese – yes, the  nuclear orange kind, i’m trying, damn it!
theme: ocadia by beccary· get a blog at wordpress.com
condensed cream of celery soup 1/2 cup milk 1 cup kraft shredded swiss cheese preheat oven to 350°f.
stuffing mix for chicken 3 cups cubed cooked ham 18 fresh asparagus spears (about 1/2 lb.), cut into 2-inch pieces 1 can (10-3/4 oz.)
it’s that i want to make my life healthier and i can’t imagine that ingesting a bunch of chemicals i can’t pronouce is going to make my life healthier, even if they are the “healthy request” or whatever it is called versions.