return the dried potatoes to bowl, sprinkle with seasoning salt and pepper and drizzle with oil; evenly distribute the oil and seasoning by tossing with your hands.
weight watchers (old points) 2 weight  watchers points plus 3 skinny facts: for 1  serving 110 calories, 3.5g fat, 2g protein, 17g carbs, 2g fiber, 180mg  sodium, 2g sugar fat facts: for 1 small mc donald’s  french fries 230 calories, 11g fat, 3g protein, 29g carbs, 3g fiber, 180mg  sodium, 1g sugar
admin says: october 4th, 2011 at 6:26 pm i’m so happy you liked this recipe.
bake until golden brown and tender; approximately 35-40 minutes, turning frequently.
potatoes also contain  vitamins c and b6.
i think i even prefer them to the greasy take-away version.
name (required) mail (will not be published) (required)
i love making chips like this.
most supermarkets sell lawry’s seasoning salt in the spice section or use your favorite.
i love  fries myself but really cut back on eating on the fried ones over the last few  years especially so this baked version is up my alley claire @ claire k creations says: july 27th, 2011 at 4:00 pm i love making chips like this.
if you like crispy fries, bake an additional 8-10  minutes.
no need to keep them out of your diet.
an 8 ounce potato has about 178 calories.
it’s a jewish ho... read more » st. patrick’s day is an irish holiday celebrated all around the wo...
they  are low in calories and contain no fat.
you’ll only need 4 ingredients to create them.
be careful if you cut the recipe in half, to not bake it as long as they will burn….
as the potatoes are cut, place them in a dish of  ice water and let soak for about 10 minutes 3.
read more » i'm sharing my top 10 favorite recipes of 2011.
join me, nancy fox, on facebook for more skinny conversation!
this 8 responses to “skinny fries” jerry ko says: july 27th, 2011 at 1:46 pm cant really go wrong with a simply yet healthier batch of fries!
the familiar, nostalgic, simple foods, that reminds us of our childhood.
place potatoes on a baking sheet that has been coated with nonstick  cooking spray.
after soaking potatoes, drain off water, remove potatoes and pat dry  with paper towels.
healthy (er) fries – they look wonderful.
as the potatoes are cut, place them in a dish of ice water and let soak for about 10 minutes 3.
if you like crispy fries, bake an additional 8-10 minutes.
they are low in calories and contain no fat.
healthy benefit potatoes have surprising health  benefits.
and it was still very good!
leave a reply mail (will not be published) (required)
after soaking potatoes, drain off water, remove potatoes and pat dry with paper towels.
a small mc donald’s fries has 230 calories and 11 grams of fat.
hi kristi, i did my calculations based on one potato weighing about 8 ounces each.
healthy benefit potatoes have surprising health benefits.
makes 4 servings food fact the russet potato is low in moisture  and high in starch, making it good for baking, boiling and making french  fries.
potatoes also contain vitamins c and b6.
all you do is drizzle with olive oil, sprinkle with seasoning salt and pepper, toss, bake and dig in.
just salt or salt and pepper taste great too.
be careful if you cut the recipe in half, to not bake it as long as  they will burn….
spray top of potatoes with a little more cooking spray.
prep tip soaking the potatoes first in ice water reduces some of the starch and helps the potatoes from sticking during baking.
and it was still very  good!
share thisshare | cant really go wrong with a simply yet healthier batch of fries!
sprinkle with additional seasoning and pepper, if desired, and serve.
prep tip soaking the potatoes first in ice  water reduces some of the starch and helps the potatoes from sticking during  baking.
they contain more potassium than any other fresh vegetable, even more than bananas!
so simple, once the potatoes are prepped.
they’re sometimes referred to as an old potato or a baking potato.
they’re rich in complex carbohydrates that can supply energy.
in addition, the potatoes won’t turn brown.
read more » passover begins at sundown friday, april 6th.
enter your email address to get the latest updates from skinny kitchen: salsa is actually a very h... read more »
scrub the potatoes and cut lengthwise into 4 equal slices; cut each slice into thirds or fourths.
alyce says: july 28th, 2011 at 8:11 am i love a healthy alternative.
they contain more potassium than  any other fresh vegetable, even more than bananas!
i’m so happy you are enjoying my recipes.
i love a healthy alternative.
spray top of potatoes with a little more cooking  spray.
most supermarkets sell lawry’s seasoning salt in the spice section or  use your favorite.
website notify me of follow-up comments by email.
i’ve never tried it with  grapeseed oil but sounds like it would taste great… kristi says: january 22nd, 2012 at 12:44 pm could you give us an approximate weight for the two large potatoes?
actually this isn’t a ti...
entries (rss) and comments (rss).
serving tip these skinny fries taste great dipped in ketchup, barbecue sauce or my recipe for nancy’s skinny ranch dressing.
i’ve never tried it with grapeseed oil but sounds like it would taste great… could you give us an approximate weight for the two large potatoes?
admin says: january 22nd, 2012 at 4:12 pm hi kristi, i did my calculations based on one potato weighing about 8  ounces each.
read more » all my skinny recipes include weight watchers points and nutrition facts, plus cooking tips, food finds and more...
prep time: 15 minutes bake time: 40 minutes ingredients 2 large baking potatoes, (russet potatoes) 8 ounces each 1 tablespoon olive oil 1 teaspoons lawry’s seasoning salt, see shopping tip fresh ground pepper, to taste olive oil cooking spray instructions 1.
place potatoes on a baking sheet that has been coated with nonstick cooking spray.
if you haven’t tried popchips before you’re in for a real treat!...
maureen says: july 27th, 2011 at 4:51 pm healthy (er) fries – they look wonderful.
i’m so happy you liked this recipe.
current issue comfort foods nothing says warm and cozy quite like comfort food.
shopping tip choose potatoes that are firm and  plump, avoiding those that have shriveled skins, sprouting eyes, soft spots,  blemishes and green spots.
you can leave a response, or trackback from your own site.
return the dried potatoes to bowl, sprinkle with seasoning  salt and pepper and drizzle with oil; evenly distribute the oil and seasoning  by tossing with your hands.
melaney says: october 4th, 2011 at 3:52 pm yummy recipe!
i used grapeseed oil instead of olive
they’re sometimes referred to as an old potato or a baking  potato.
i love fries myself but really cut back on eating on the fried ones over the last few years especially so this baked version is up my alley
2 large baking potatoes, (russet potatoes) 8 ounces each 1 tablespoon olive oil 1 teaspoons lawry’s seasoning salt, see shopping tip fresh ground pepper, to taste olive oil cooking spray instructions 1.
read more » this edible thistle, dates back eons and was prized by ancient rom...
scrub the potatoes and cut lengthwise into 4 equal slices; cut each  slice into thirds or fourths.
bake until golden brown and tender; approximately 35-40 minutes,  turning frequently.
these are the ones...
read more » whether you're having a brunch, lunch or dinner you’ll surely ne...
read more » © skinny kitchen .
i ask because i’ve found that a “large” potato means different things to different people i buy bags of potatoes and usually go for smaller ones so pounds are helpful when trying to ensure i’m making enough.
hooray for the variety of fresh fruits and vegetable...
like so many holidays, food is suc...
notify me of new posts by email.
read more » cinco de mayo 2012 is saturday.
i think i even prefer them to the greasy  take-away version.
serving tip these skinny fries taste great  dipped in ketchup, barbecue sauce or my recipe for nancy’s skinny ranch  dressing.
this entry was posted wednesday, april 11th, 2012 at 10:57 am and is filed  underrecent, recipes.
i ask  because i’ve found that a “large” potato means different  things to different people i buy bags of potatoes and usually go for smaller  ones so pounds are helpful when trying to ensure i’m making enough.
one serving of these yummy, skinny fries has 110 calories, 3.5 grams of fat and 3 weight watchers points plus.
these skinny fries are a fabulously healthy alternative to regular french fries.
preheat oven to 425 degrees.
skinny facts: for 1 serving weight watchers (old points) 2 weight watchers points plus 3 this entry was posted wednesday, april 11th, 2012 at 10:57 am and is filed underrecent, recipes.
shopping tip choose potatoes that are firm and plump, avoiding those that have shriveled skins, sprouting eyes, soft spots, blemishes and green spots.
makes 4 servings food fact the russet potato is low in moisture and high in starch, making it good for baking, boiling and making french fries.
i love all the recipes!
for years i was completely disappointed in the reduced-fat salad d...