pleases the palate but takes the taste buds to enjoy a natural and delectable tasteful travel.
with very few water soluble vitamins being lost, steamed food is convenient and does not need to be strained besides retaining original flavors.
client speak i'm glad i found this!
and i'm very happy i finally found and bought it here.
the vitaclay® chef is made of mineral-rich earthenware and eliminates unnecessary chemical exposure.
nothing should be cooked dry in the cooker, because it can cause the clay pot to crack.
- happy mom 'v u' (st. louis, mo, usa) tip of the month please always be sensitive that any cooking in the vitaclay®  cooker is "wet".
i've been looking for a clay rice cooker  for a long time.
bring in the advantages of slow cooking and introduce the goodness of healthy, well-balanced meals that your family can enjoy.
are you confined to the house because you have to plan the meals for your family?
- home - contact us - shipping & returns - affiliates - cart - login - home - blog - in the media - testimonials - faq - recipes - newsletters - my orders vitaclay cart your cart is currently empty.
it  combined the traditional and modern cooking with the smart technology.
- rice cookers & slow cookers - 2-in-1 rice n' slow cooker - 8 cup - 2-in-1 rice n' slow cooker - 6 cup - chef gourmet rice n' slow cooker pro - 8 cup - smart multicooker - 6 cup - parts & accessories - cooker replacement claypot sets - cooker replacement
it's really simple and healthy!!!
enjoy 256 | total fat: 14.7g |  cholesterol: 21mg featured article steamed food is good for health
with very  few water soluble vitamins being lost, steamed food is convenient and does not  need to be strained besides retaining original flavors.
besides cooking vegetables, fish, meats and poultry of the same  cuts can be steamed with the required seasoning that retains color and aroma.
are you worried about the toll of a fast-paced life?
i use it everyday to make rice, stew and soup for my family.
would you like to enjoy a steamed feast that adds taste and nutrients to your lifestyle?
bring in the advantages of  slow cooking and introduce the goodness of healthy, well-balanced meals that  your family can enjoy.
with its slow-cooking  organic clay pot, this modernized cooker offers the busy professional, the  housewife and amateur cooks a computerized balance of temperature that not only  pleases the palate but takes the taste buds to enjoy a natural and delectable  tasteful travel.
with many health problems today, people are turning towards a life enriched  with organic foods that accelerates the concept of whole living.
you need javascript enabled to view it | 877-877-9121 offer your family the goodness of holistic health does  cooking take up most of your time?
zip up your summer by  spending more time outdoors than in your kitchen.
serve when the cooker switched to warm cycle or let  the pilaf stay in warm cycle for 10 to 15 minutes before serving.
it's really simple and  healthy!!!
transfer the above contents into vitaclay cooker.
it combined the traditional and modern cooking with the smart technology.
- wholesale distributors - terms & conditions - privacy policy
stir constantly until rice is lightly browned.
go ahead and delight in the advantage of cooking faster and preserving the vitamin content in your food with steaming.
buy now testimonials faq "pottery has a kind of 'memory' of the food it held, and only a clay pot can keep the 'memory' of the love the cook put into it when preparing the dish."
with its slow-cooking organic clay pot, this modernized cooker offers the busy professional, the housewife and amateur cooks a computerized balance of temperature that not only
come visit our website atvitaclaychef.com, and check out our facebook, twitter and youtube pages for recipes, ideas, and thought-provoking discussion on how to live a healthy life!
nothing should be cooked dry in the cooker, because  it can cause the clay pot to crack.
i use it  everyday to make rice, stew and soup for my family.
never bake, brown, toast or fry any food in the vitaclay® cooker.
seal in the goodness of a healthy life for a wholesome life with cooking that is rapid and can be timed to convenience.
save your time to do all the things  that you have left pending...catch up with your friends or spend your time  dreaming up ways to enjoy quality time with your family!
are you worried about the toll of a  fast-paced life?
claypot lids - manuals & warranty - compare cookers vitaclay newsletter - june 2011 vitaclay® home blog in the media
this e-mail address is being protected from spambots.
seal in the goodness of  a healthy life for a wholesome life with cooking that is rapid and can be timed  to convenience.
melt butter, then sauté rice, orzo, mushrooms, onion, and celery.
mix in chicken broth, parsley, marjoram, pepper, and hazelnuts.
are you confined to the house because you  have to plan the meals for your family?
set vitaclay® cooker on  "stew" cooking.
zip up your summer by spending more time outdoors than in your kitchen.
transfer  the above contents into vitaclay cooker.
this e-mail address is being  protected from spambots.
go ahead and delight in the advantage of cooking  faster and preserving the vitamin content in your food with steaming.
never bake, brown, toast or fry any food in  the vitaclay® cooker.
enjoy amount per serving calories: 256 | total fat: 14.7g | cholesterol: 21mg featured article steamed food is good for health
- happy mom 'v u' (st. louis, mo, usa) tip of the month please always be sensitive that any cooking in the vitaclay® cooker is "wet".
mix in chicken broth,  parsley, marjoram, pepper, and hazelnuts.
come visit our  website atvitaclaychef.com, and check out our facebook, twitter and youtube  pages for recipes, ideas, and thought-provoking discussion on how to live a  healthy life!
guaranteed to  offer health and a well-cooked dish, vitaclay® chef is perfect for steaming  succulent vegetarian, non-vegetarian and popular summer dishes that retain  texture and taste for a healthy lifestyle.
i've been looking for a clay rice cooker for a long time.
it combines rice, orzo pasta, and lots of goodies - very delicious! -
set vitaclay® cooker on "stew" cooking.
recipe of the month hazelnut-mushroom pilaf prep time: 10 min cook time: 30 min ready in: 40 min long-grain rice and orzo are simmered in chicken broth with hazelnuts and mushrooms and seasoned with parsley and marjoram.
guaranteed to offer health and a well-cooked dish, vitaclay® chef is perfect for steaming succulent vegetarian, non-vegetarian and popular summer dishes that retain texture and taste for a healthy lifestyle.
the vitaclay® chef is made of mineral-rich  earthenware and eliminates unnecessary chemical exposure.
melt butter, then sauté rice, orzo, mushrooms, onion,  and celery.
follow us on - home - contact us - shipping & returns - affiliates - cart - login © 2012 vitaclay® chef rice cookers and slow cookers all rights reserved.
one of the best ways that you can give your family holistic health is by using the vitaclay® chef that is the answer for the health conscious consumer.
one of the best ways that you can give your family  holistic health is by using the vitaclay® chef that is the answer for the  health conscious consumer.
the full line of vitaclay® cookers can be foundwww.vitaclaychef.com.
by: stephndon, courtesy of all recipes servings: 6 ingredients • 1/4 cup butter • 1/2 cup uncooked long-grain rice • 1/4 cup uncooked orzo pasta • 1/2 cup sliced fresh mushrooms • 1/2 cup chopped onion • 1/4 cup minced celery • 1.5 cups chicken broth • 2 tablespoons chopped fresh parsley • 1/4 teaspoon dried marjoram • 1/4 teaspoon ground black pepper • 1/2 cup chopped toasted hazelnuts what you should do: 1.
with many health problems today, people are turning towards a life enriched with organic foods that accelerates the concept of whole living.
- paula wolfert vitaclay® newsletter - june 2011
you need javascript enabled to view it | 877-877-9121 offer your family the goodness of holistic health does cooking take up most of your time?
besides cooking vegetables, fish, meats and poultry of the same cuts can be steamed with the required seasoning that retains color and aroma.
i created this to incorporate two of our favorites: hazelnuts and mushrooms.
serve when the cooker switched to warm cycle or let the pilaf stay in warm cycle for 10 to 15 minutes before serving.
would you like to enjoy a steamed feast that adds taste and  nutrients to your lifestyle?
place a large skillet over medium-low heat.
place a large skillet over  medium-low heat.
comments, questions and  suggestions by email or phone are welcome!
comments, questions and suggestions by email or phone are welcome!
the full line of  vitaclay® cookers can be foundwww.vitaclaychef.com.
save your time to do all the things that you have left pending...catch up with your friends or spend your time dreaming up ways to enjoy quality time with your family!
• 2 tablespoons chopped fresh  parsley • 1/4 teaspoon dried marjoram • 1/4  teaspoon ground black pepper • 1/2 cup chopped toasted hazelnuts what you should do: 1.