china grill moving from south beach to brickell
whisk gourmet food & catering ,town kitchen & bar, harry's pizzeria, dunkin' donuts of south florida, lester's cafe and wine bar, and joslyn's freakin' flamingo have all pledged to donate assorted gift cards to their establishments for raffle, as well as jams, while friends of bloggers are donating triple chocolate cranberry oatmeal cookies and 'heavenly fluffmallows' with chocolate and toasted coconut.
privacy policy cancel continue tags: dunkin' donuts, fatgirl hedonist, freakin' flamingo, harry's pizzeria, lester's, share our strength, town kitchen & bar, whisk gourmet food & catering write comment email to friend print article related content - latin house grill to open restaurant: are food trucks turning to brick and mortar?march 5, 2012 - great find: color blocked dress at the dressing room january 3, 2012 - south miami holiday bar crawl: drink for the children december 9, 2011 - miami hurricanes may miss out on a.j. leggett, one of the nations best cbs, because of academicsdecember 2, 2011 - bee gees' robin gibb selling his south miami mansion for $4.25 million november 8, 2011 more about: - renee joslyn - south miami - trina sargalski - science and technology - internet please enable javascript to view the comments powered by disqus.
salumeria 104 - 2012 usbg campari best aperitivo cocktail competition at the corner - snackdown celebration at greenstreet cafe - more slideshows >> tools search short order follow us on: categories...
- burger & beer joint view ad | view site - grimpa steakhouse view ad | view site - paradise bar & grill view ad | view site - portofino coal fire pizza view ad | view site twitter feed follow short_order on twitter more twitter >>
we've just added another great prize to our raffle:â crave restaurant in merrick park (coral gables) has donated a generous gift card!
if you're a food lover in south florida, come out to the bake sale on april 28th for great treats, both sweet and savory, healthy and decadent, and a chance to try out some of the most highly respected restaurants in the area at a discount!
by lee klein 6 - holidays turn easter candy into a boozy brunch
anywhere from a dollar upward, you  know the impact is practically immeasurable.
" follow short order on facebook  and twitter@short_order.
the ads - classifieds - blogs - columns - best of - bars/clubs - archives - mobile - promotions - coupons top blog stories - truck tracker frita man's jean beltran charged with assault
"i'm really  excited about the great cause it supports," said fatgirl.
"i'm playing with my blondie brownie
for your tasting pleasure, i am playing with a double chocolate skillet cake recipe but, i'm sure to bring maple cupcakes with cream cheese maple frosting and chocolate mint thumbprints.
ten under $10 - miami's easter egg hunt guide - bourdain's no reservations is back tonight: five places we'd like to see tony visit - anthony bourdain's no reservations: mozambique is a downer (51) - food truck violence: frita man's jean beltran arrested for pulling gun on grill master cafe owner (15)
the bloggers have been busy for the past few months with their three primary goals:
- 159 diggs 6th annual anime matsuri convention (pics) - 136 diggs armed neo-nazis now patrolling sanford, say they are "prepared" for post-trayvon martin violence - 1209 diggs legislation to end u.s. marijuana prohibition coming thursday - 1121 diggs ten signs you're an aging gamer - 999 diggs 7 myths mythbusters proved that we still can't believe are true - 947 diggs the u.s. can't justify its drug war spending - 899 diggs neighbor mom taunts dying 7-year-old girl over facebook links choice eats - all purpose dark - ...
recipe to add in toffee and caramelized bacon to the mix," said fatgirl.
participating bloggers include bake sale  organizer renee joslyn offlamingo musings, trina sargalski of miami dish,  christina staalstrom ofdiary of dinners, local food critic fatgirl hedonist,  natalie atick offood
but, i'm sure to bring  maple cupcakes with cream cheese maple frosting and chocolate mint thumbprints.
archives... restaurants more >>
captain of the blogger baker squad, joslyn, will make cake pops and perhaps even a little biscotti, "but i'll see about that later.
anywhere from a dollar upward, you know the impact is practically immeasurable.
pin it @fatgirlhedonist
creating a support system, raising money, and preparing to bake their blogger  butts off.
according to share our strength, $1 can help a child with ten healthy meals a week and $35 can help a child care center provide free after school snacks and suppers to at-risk children all year long.
e-mail privacy policy
i tend to  go a little overboard," she told us.
for your tasting pleasure, i  am playing with a double chocolate skillet cake recipe
captain of the blogger baker squad, joslyn, will make cake pops and  perhaps even a little biscotti, "but i'll see about that later.
according to share our strength, $1 can help a child with ten healthy meals a  week and $35 can help a child care center provide free after school snacks and  suppers to at-risk children all year long.
" follow short order on facebook and twitter@short_order.
i tend to go a little overboard," she told us.
share our strength: miami food bloggers bake to end childhood hunger byalex rodriguez wed., apr. 4 2012 at 12:10 pm categories:  food  charity
location info more coral gables/south miami restaurants map 6130 sunset drive, south miami, fl category:
as for the sweets to be sold on the day of the market, visitors are in for quite the treat -- pun intended.
whisk gourmet food & catering ,town kitchen & bar, harry's pizzeria, dunkin' donuts of south florida,  lester's cafe and wine bar, and joslyn's freakin' flamingo have all pledged to  donate assorted gift cards to their establishments for raffle, as well as jams,  while friends of bloggers are donating triple chocolate cranberry oatmeal  cookies and 'heavenly fluffmallows' with chocolate and toasted coconut.
- thank you for the great article about the 2012 miami food bloggers bake sale benefiting share our strength.
blogs - news - music - calendar - restaurants - - entire site - articles & blogs - restaurants - places - events - music - images - ads - bars - best of - movies - arts - movies -
charlie - dine south florida - dirty dining blog - eat it, miami - eat local miami - eater miami - eating local in the tropics - edible south florida - feast nbc miami - food for thought - french fry fairy - gagit - i shot
by laine doss 7 - holidays three award-winning matzah ball recipes by lee klein 8 - news the grind on refunds: 50% off next year
so far, the team has raised over five hundred dollars, but  there's still a ways to go until the $2,000 goal is reached.
browse voice nation most popular | most recent profile | newsletters | mobile log in sign up - new york village voice la weekly phoenix new times - denver westword houston press dallas observer - sf weekly seattle weekly st. louis rft - miami new times minneapolis city pages oc weekly - broward/palm beach new times or - voice places discover restaurants, nightlife, travel, shopping... - voice daily deals get 50 to 90% off every day on restaurants, movies, massages... - best of... more than 10,000 of the best things to eat, drink, and experience - my voice nation join the village voice community and get exclusive deals and info - happy hour your local happy hour guide at your fingertips log in or sign up social connect: use your favorite account to access my voice nation.
participating bloggers include bake sale organizer renee joslyn offlamingo musings, trina sargalski of miami dish, christina staalstrom ofdiary of dinners, local food critic fatgirl hedonist, natalie atick offood
wed., apr. 4 2012 at 12:10 pm categories: food charity @fatgirlhedonist in an effort to help share our strength, an organization that aims to end childhood hunger in the united states, eight miami food bloggers are teaming up to make a dent in the charity's donations with a bake sale, set to take place at thesouth miami farmers market april 28.
sign up for the dining newsletter: the week's top local food news and  events, plus interviews with chefs and restaurant owners, dining tips, and a  peek at our print review.
as for the sweets to be sold on the day of the market, visitors are in for  quite the treat -- pun intended.
use your my voice nation account to log in: e-mail password forgot password?
miami classifieds - buy, sell, trade (10,484) - musician (728) - rentals (3,426) - jobs (1,579) - personals (1,578) - adult entertainment slideshows» - closer look:
privacy policy cancel continue tags: dunkin' donuts, fatgirl hedonist, freakin' flamingo, harry's  pizzeria, lester's, share our strength, town kitchen & bar, whisk gourmet  food & catering write comment  email to friend  print article related content latin house grill to open restaurant: are food trucks turning to brick  and mortar?march 5, 2012 great find: color blocked dress at the dressing room january 3, 2012 south miami holiday bar crawl: drink for the children december 9, 2011 miami hurricanes may miss out on a.j. leggett, one of the nations best  cbs, because of academicsdecember 2, 2011 bee gees' robin gibb selling his south miami mansion for $4.25 million  november 8, 2011 more about:
the chef - jeff eats - kitchen interviews - kitchen window - la diva cucina - local food miami - mango & lime - miami dish - meatless in miami - miami's restaurant power rankings - norman van aken - occasional omnivore - redland rambles - south florida beer blog - sup - sustainable suppers - the burger beast - the chowfather - the faux foodie - the south florida punch - the genuine kitchen - tinkering with dinner - urbanspoon - miami - will jog for food - wine beneath the palms - worst pizza national blogs - anthony bourdain - bakerella - cake wrecks - chocolate and zucchini - david lebovitz - eat me daily - michael ruhlman - orangette - serious eats - slashfood - the kitchn - the pioneer woman - the smitten kitchen about us | work for miami new times | esubscribe | free classifieds | advertising | privacy policy | problem with the site?
| rss | site map © 2012 miami new times, llc.
the craft brewjas: women who love beer by david minsky 4 - chef on the small screen bourdain's no reservations is back by laine doss 5 - restaurant closings
"i'm playing with my blondie brownie  recipe to add in toffee and caramelized bacon to the mix," said fatgirl.
- 1 diggs losing the war on drugs - 33 diggs interview and gumbo recipe: elise mcdonough (high times cannabis cookbook) - toke of the town - 35 diggs intellectual stripper rock star ashley huizenga wants to get you off - 37 diggs april foolishness @ the gibson amphitheatre (pics) - 306 diggs alice in wonderland, in burlesque (nsfw) - 259 diggs easter bunny gets his groove on - 146 diggs pole2pole pole dancing competition (pics)
by laine doss 1 - first bites bocadillo clandestino: a sobe lunch secret by lee klein 2 - restaurant news azul: huff out, new menu items in by laine doss 3 - booze hound
- miami marlins opening day cake: swarovski crystals and guava (13) - the grind on refunds: 50% off next year (12) - china grill moving from south beach to brickell (11) - more most commented... - 60.
and the eggs - be a wok star - blind tastes - chadzilla - clean plate
the  bloggers have been busy for the past few months with their three primary goals:
sign up for a my voice nation account:
she's  not the only local food lover to get in on the action though -- restaurants are  reaching out to assist for the cause.
you can get in on the action too by donating goods or funds.
if you'd prefer to  charitably eat your way through, though, by all means, come to the bake sale --  we'll be there from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. fatgirl said, "even if you  don't donate, it's definitely worth the trip to south miami to check out the  great treats that'll be sold.
if you'd prefer to charitably eat your way through, though, by all means, come to the bake sale -- we'll be there from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. fatgirl said, "even if you don't donate, it's definitely worth the trip to south miami to check out the great treats that'll be sold.
headlines from our partners - la côte fontainebleau now open late - wild boar at chef adrianne's aussie-themed dark dining - 3.5 stars for toscano divino; marlins park: often delicious - 10 best miami cuban restaurants; bk's bacon sundae - sam gorenstein exits the raleigh; schwartz launch expected in the fall vvm on digg - 5 diggs will strip-search ruling ripple nipples?
so far, the team has raised over five hundred dollars, but there's still a ways to go until the $2,000 goal is reached.
creating a support system, raising money, and preparing to bake their blogger butts off.
remember me or sign up or log in social connect: sign up for my voice nation with your preferred network.
by laine doss 10 food charity share our strength: miami food bloggers bake to end childhood hunger byalex rodriguez
totalcomments: 1 most popular stories - anthony bourdain's no reservations: mozambique is a downer - china grill moving from south beach to brickell - best cheap meals on south beach:
atick, lifestyle blogger, annush fernandez of annush on the causeway, lynne cohen of girlyshoes, and yours truly.
sign up for the dining newsletter: the week's top local food news and events, plus interviews with chefs and restaurant owners, dining tips, and a peek at our print review.
atick, lifestyle blogger, annush fernandez of annush on  the causeway, lynne cohen of girlyshoes, and yours truly.
in an effort to help share  our strength, an organization that aims to end childhood hunger in the united  states, eight miami food bloggers are teaming up to make a dent in the  charity's donations with a bake sale, set to take place at thesouth miami  farmers market april 28.
sign up for free stuff, news info & more!
by laine doss 9 - food art homemade peeps: a how-to by chef jamie derosa
she's not the only local food lover to get in on the action though -- restaurants are reaching out to assist for the cause.
location info more coral gables/south miami restaurants map south miami farmers' market 6130 sunset drive, south miami, fl category:
restaurant like this story?
"i'm really excited about the great cause it supports," said fatgirl.
bacon and blue at ms. cheezious - food truck violence: frita man's jean beltran arrested for pulling gun on grill master cafe owner - great taste of the grove food and entertainment guide - sunday's schnebly brunch: guava-glazed ribs, exotic beer, and wine - bocadillo clandestino is a new south beach lunch secret - more recent entries...