andddddddd we printed out the recipe and got all the ingredients for the no bake granola bars to make so we can snack on it on the way to florida thanks again for everything!!!reply this is great!
guess i’m going to have to get creative!
i wish we could do it for the little kids more but at least it seems like it’s catching on somewhere.
i love this so much…now, if only i taught seniors in high school, i’d be able to utilize it in health class.
then i went super-healthy (like many of you super-healthy bloggers!),  but honestly, i didn’t enjoy eating that healthy either haha.
view all posts by lindsay→
then my second semester is when i decided it was time to get healthy (i was also at my heighest weight ever at this point).
my diet was horrendous…
summer after freshman year, i started counting calories and would only eat about 1200 calories a day (horrible, in my opinion) and those calories were usually from things like tv dinners and pudding snacks.
these are great tips for young people every  where!
reply kayla @ sprouty buns says: march 15, 2012 at 7:32 am great post!
reply julianna @ julianna bananna says: march 15, 2012 at 10:06 am loved this post, especially because i’m heading off to college next  year!
i hang my head kayla @ sprouty buns recently posted..3 before 8 great post!
drinking… lots of weight gain!!reply i spent lots of time in the dining halls freshman and sophomore year.
[mostly wordless] what i ate wednesday – #8 you put a lot of thought into this and di a great job.
wish all college kids were health freaks like us haha kelsey recently posted..i got to eat fancy food love this!!!
i needed this one badly the first couple years of college.
for the love of kale says: march 15, 2012 at 11:12 pm love this, lindsay!
pretty much all over the board in college.
earlier in the week, i sent over a list of some ingredients i would need them to pick up, and on the day of the presentation, i packed up a few of the ingredients i already had on hand (like tahini and brown rice syrup) and showed the girls how to make 4 easy snacks.
i wasn’t super aware of nutrition in college, i ate healthier than my friends for sure but i didn’t know what i was doing like now.
wow, this would have been so useful to me — those girls are lucky to have had your presentation!
how was your diet in college?
great post! jess  recently posted..
my  diet was oh so awful and consisted mainly of overly processed snacks (think  oreos, doritos, poptarts, you name it) and fast-food (late night sonic or taco  bells runs became almost a nightly routine freshman year) ….
reply aparna b. @ not a leaf says: march 15, 2012 at 8:44 am such great tips!
i’m so glad i’ve changed my diet  b/c i know a lot of my friends haven’t, i wish i had all of the knowledge  to make better decisions!
freshman year, i was clueless and ate pretty  unhealthy foods.
plus, miami was great because they had so many healthy options to chose from!
they pretty much gave me free reign, so i spent some time  really thinking about what i wanted to talk to them about.
microwave sweet potato-
i actually commuted to college so i always had my own kitchen  to eat from.
i’ve always been good about haphazardly slapping healthy stuff together.
in a separate bowl, microwave the brown rice syrup and peanut butter until melted.
i had a hard time in college healthwise – so many temptations, such a messed up schedule – lots of fast food and partying.
add  the oil if you’re using it process for about 5 minutes or until  desired consistency is reached.
my school  gave us so many choices and it was all you could eat!
reply laura @ sprint 2 the table says: march 15, 2012 at 7:14 am i wish i had been this conscious in college.
my diet was pretty good.
alicia at poise in parma recently posted..lessons learned: reassessing goals as  a yogi & a runner reply matt @ the athlete's plate says: march 15, 2012 at 7:36 pm ahh i’m so glad college is behind me matt @ the athlete’s
stay satisfied reply stefanie @thenewhealthy says: march 15, 2012 at 9:38 am great post!
i blog about what's going on in my kitchen!
i felt sluggish a lot of the time which was not a good feeling!
i didn’t live on campus but always brought my lunch since i’d been doing that since kindergarten i think there’s a big difference even since when i was in college to now where universities really try to make healthier options a priority on campus.
congrats on a job well done jobo recently posted..
i had a hard time in college  healthwise – so many temptations, such a messed up schedule – lots  of fast food and partying.
that means i spent 3 years living in the dorms.
great advice for those  currently living in dorms, or even if you aren’t and are new to cooking!
sarah @ the smart kitchen recently posted..southwestern grapefruit avocado dip
use your hands to shape into desired bar shape.
even though i lived at home for 75% of my college career … i  fell victim to the late night crunch sessions at school or would spend 14 hour  days making sure my assigments juuuust right.
i also kind of wish our fridge and dorm room was filled  with more than easy mac, juice boxes and cheez-its.
kristen @  notsodomesticated recently posted..wiaw:
although, i will say i think i did a fairly decent job- at least better than a lot of other people haha.
used low-sodium canned tuna or  chicken packed in water.
don’t worry, i didn’t go poor or hungry, but i did lose weight with little switches!
add the liquid to the dry ingredients to mix well (use your hands if you need to!)
i did not  eat well at all in college.
← wiaw: picture overload 42 responses to how to eat healthy in college emily @familynlifelv says: march 15, 2012 at 2:39 am
such a great message to be sending to college girls all over — it’s like an epidemic, i swear – so many women in college go into it having no clue how to eat properly and end up gaining the freshman 15 and then some.
jana @ newly wife healthy life recently posted..beautiful bride on the inside and out this is awesome!
after i finished talking, we moved on to the fun part!
1 ½ c brown rice cereal 2 c oats 2 tbsp flax seed 2/3 c peanut butter ½ c brown rice syrup ¼ c chia seeds ¼ c pumpkin seeds ¼ c sunflower seeds 1 tsp vanilla ½ c chopped almonds ¾ c raisins and/or craisins 1/3 c chocolate chips directions: mix all the dry ingredients in a bowl.
this post thank you do much for coming in, we had so much fun!
we only had apartments for our senior year.
my first trip to bikram yoga
i remember the days of “eating” clean in  college.
2 cans of chickpeas, rinsed with 1/4 c liquid reserved 1 lemon directions: poke the sweet potato and microwave for 5  minutes to cook if using.
add your favorite spices (try curry powder or  cayenne pepper) and some chopped veggies (like onions and peppers) to bulk it  up!
i have to say — i sort of fell into that camp a little bit, though i was at least working out then, i definitely wasn’t eating well (as in wholesome, real, fueling foods).
small budget… no restrictions…
my diet was oh so awful and consisted mainly of overly processed snacks (think oreos, doritos, poptarts, you name it) and fast-food (late night sonic or taco bells runs became almost a nightly routine freshman year) ….
i’m so happy for you  and so happy that i could be of help.
–lindsay– subscribe to the comments on this post about lindsay i'm a twenty-something year old girl who loves to cook,  bake and take pictures of food.
place the peanuts in the processor and  pulse until chopped.
although, i  will say i think i did a fairly decent job- at least better than a lot of other  people haha.
wow, this would have been so useful to me — those girls are lucky to  have had your presentation!
i figured  this would appeal to the masses because if these things can be made in a dorm  room, with minimal equipment and a mini-fridge, then they can definitely be  made in homes and apartments with even more space and equipment.
divide mixture into thirds, place one third on a piece  of saran wrap.
remove and place in a small bowl.
i wish a group like chaarg would have been at osu when i attended!.
kasey has tons of different  variations up on her blog!click here to check them out.
snacks embrace the bulk bins!
my freshman year of  college i gained quite a bit of weight–having a daily breakfast of banana  bread + a white chocolate mocha probably didn’t do me any favors.
but at least now i’m eating  healthier!
luckily i had a kitchen though
fortunately, this  sparked more than just a weight loss effort; i learned the ins and outs of  nutrition and found that i really enjoy exercise, so today i’m more  healthy and fit than ever before.
emily @familynlifelv recently posted..toddler talk | from the author of the butt book comes poopendous!
no bake granola bars-  combine oats, brown rice  syrup or honey, cereal and your favorite mix-ins for a healthy snack oats in a smoothie- add cooked oatmeal or uncooked  oats to your smoothies for some extra bulk and fiber.
i told them about myself and about how when i went to college the first time, we had to live on campus all 4 years.
i definitely had my fair share of late night quesadillas or hungover greasy breakfast burritos, but for most breakfast, lunches, and dinners, i took advantage of the salad station or stir-fry station in our food court to customize my own veggie-filled meals!
i would have loved something like this when i went to college.
i’m so glad college is behind me matt @ the athlete’s plate recently posted..
for sandwiches (like sliced turkey or tuna  salad) or toast (try topped with pb & banana)
from their website: is that awesome or what?!
ashley @ my food ‘n’ fitness diaries recently posted..weight loss story
luckily the salad bar was respectable!
the night dinner was thrown out.
reply lindsay says: march 15, 2012 at 8:10 am this is awesome linz!!
tiff recently posted..
–lindsay– i think they should have this in the new student guides!!
i didn’t live on campus but  always brought my lunch since i’d been doing that since kindergarten i  think there’s a big difference even since when i was in college to now  where universities really try to make healthier options a priority on campus.
what a great presentation.
they take 8-9 minutes in  the microwave and use oats, applesauce, egg whites, flaxseed, cinnamon, vanilla  and add-ins like berries and cocoa powder.
so i started making healthy switches (grilled chicken  instead of chicken tenders; less salad dressing, more lettuce; etc.).
it can totally apply to any busy person or a person with a small kitchen.
you are a great role model my friend rachel @
(well if you  don’t count the unhealthy amounts of liquor) lindsay @ fuel my family  recently posted..thursday’s random rants reply march 15, 2012 at 6:14 pm this is great!
i actually started my weight loss journey in  college so it is totally doable amanda @runtothefinish recently posted.. vegan perspective: clean eating reply lily says: march 15, 2012 at 10:28 pm this post is brilliant!
they are such quick and easy things to make but super healthy too!
i need them to come get my fitness routine “in shape” (literally…heeheehee).
emily @familynlifelv recently posted..toddler talk | from the author  of the butt book comes poopendous!
i totally wish i would have had that in  college–especially the years i was living on campus.
let’s just say it’s improved a lot since  then, thank goodness!
to use in granola bars and trail mix flax seeds and chia seeds- sprinkle on oatmeal and  yogurt for added omega 3′s and protein chia jam: mix 2 tbsp chia seeds, 1 cup berries,  vanilla & pinch of sugar- microwave for 2 minutes, stir and let cool.
pretty much all over  the board in college.
add the peanuts to the date mixture and use your  hands to combine.
add the sweet potato (skin removed) and pulse to combine.
second you are truly proof that college can be healthy!!
we rented a  room in the union on campus and spent about an hour and a half chatting and  whipping up some tasty snacks!
plate recently posted..nothing to yolk about reply amanda @runtothefinish says: march 15, 2012 at 7:47 pm first what a fantastic group they have created!!
it is possible to eat healthy in college, even when you’re living in a dorm and have limited kitchen access/equipment.
these are great solutions and better options than the cereal i lived off of my freshman year.
better late than never.
thanks for all the great  tips lily recently posted..wiaw: veggie overload reply pure2raw twins says: march 15, 2012 at 10:34 pm wonderful tips!!
aparna b. @ not a leaf recently posted..
elizabeth & emily are fellow fitfluential ambassadors  and the founders of this amazing group.
nothing to yolk about first what a fantastic group they have created!!
the dining hall food was just not that good at my school, so i basically lived off snacks!
i lived in the dorms for two years and sometimes you just  get tired of dining hall food!
those chaarg girls are  awesome!
the dining hall food was  just not that good at my school, so i basically lived off snacks!
i think every year my diet changed, haha.
heather montgomery recently posted.. custom orthotics: foot dynamics reply march 15, 2012 at 8:56 am great post!!!
i hang my  head kayla @ sprouty buns recently posted..3 before 8 reply carissa says: march 15, 2012 at 7:35 am great post!
store bought bars: kind bars, luna bars, larabars homemade fruit & nut bars- make your favorite larabar  flavors at home!
and i gained the freshman 20 to prove it.
there was some cereal and mac n cheese thrown in there as well but i’d say i did better than average for sure
i’m so glad i’ve changed my diet b/c i know a lot of my friends haven’t, i wish i had all of the knowledge to make better decisions!
great ideas and  list!!
i figured this would appeal to the masses because if these things can be made in a dorm room, with minimal equipment and a mini-fridge, then they can definitely be made in homes and apartments with even more space and equipment.
(well if you don’t count the unhealthy amounts of liquor) lindsay @ fuel my family recently posted..thursday’s random rants this is great!
earlier in the week, i sent over a list of some ingredients i would need them  to pick up, and on the day of the presentation, i packed up a few of the  ingredients i already had on hand (like tahini and brown rice syrup) and showed  the girls how to make 4 easy snacks.
i love  this so much…now, if only i taught seniors in high school, i’d be  able to utilize it in health class.
——————————————— no-bake granola bars these are totally customizable!
i’m intrigued by the microwave chia jam…i”ll have to try it.
so i started making healthy switches (grilled chicken instead of chicken tenders; less salad dressing, more lettuce; etc.).
deli meat/rotisserie chicken/pre-baked tofu- for easy  wraps and sandwiches veggies salad in a jars-pre-portion enough lettuce/spinach/mixed  greens, complete with chopped veggies, protein source and leafy greens, for the  week and store them in mason jars or tupperware.
don’t worry, i  didn’t go poor or hungry, but i did lose weight with little switches!
it sounds like you did an awesome job!
i ate lots of walnuts, raisins, milk, fruit, and granola bars i kept in my room.
—————————————— pb & j lara bars make your own favorite flavor at home with just a few ingredients.
i think i’ve finally found a balance that seems to work for me!
my first trip to bikram yoga reply jana @ newly wife healthy life says: march 15, 2012 at 7:36 am this is great girl!
sarah @ sarah  learns recently posted..training update reply jess says: march 15, 2012 at 10:30 am love this!!
may the odds ever favor your ass to stop hurting.
for a grab & go snack berries- top your oatmeal bowls with them or mix into  greek yogurt dairy milk-choose dairy or non-dairy greek yogurt- enjoy w/ fruit & granola.
i remember the days of “eating” clean in college.
miz recently posted..where do you find your real motivation?
luckily, i studied nutrition and found out myself.
i actually commuted to college so i always had my own kitchen to eat from.
i’ll be a freshman next year…bookmarking this sucker to refer back too!
store in the fridge.
————————————- sweet potato hummus start with a basic recipe and make it your own with mix-ins like roasted red peppers, cooked sweet potato, garlic, cayenne pepper, etc. 2 cans of chickpeas, rinsed with 1/4 c liquid reserved 1 lemon 3 tbsp tahini 1-2 cloves garlic paprika, to taste 1 medium sweet potato directions: poke the sweet potato and microwave for 5 minutes to cook if using.
i had no desire to be “healthy” in college.
your email address will not be published.
i  have learned so much since that time – and really wish i had someone like  you over my shoulder back then to set me straight.
i got to eat fancy food reply lindsay @
so i quickly transitioned into healthier food.
i wish i had been this conscious in college.
my freshman year of college i gained quite a bit of weight–having a daily breakfast of banana bread + a white chocolate mocha probably didn’t do me any favors.
i really wish i had this information before going to college way back.
only bummer is, the place i’m hoping to go doesn’t allow any  sort of appliance in your dorm room except for the fridge & microwave that  they approve.
the first semester of college, my diet was poor.
andddddddd we printed out the recipe and got all the ingredients for the no  bake granola bars to make so we can snack on it on the way to florida thanks  again for everything!!!
i was so honored when they asked me to come speak  to their group!
add the oil if you’re using it process for about 5 minutes or until desired consistency is reached.
i’m hoping  to get the meal plan with the fewest meals and then make the rest of the meals  myself – most likely i’ll be making breakfast.
a decade ago-super healthy.
mattie @ comfy and confident recently posted..
although i am still going to use these tips today while at work and around the  house.
reply yellow haired girl says: march 15, 2012 at 11:09 pm
so, the evening went really well.
carissa recently posted..
so i ate a lot, and i mean a lot,  of ramen.
we rented a room in the union on campus and spent about an hour and a half chatting and whipping up some tasty snacks!
choose your favorite mix-ins, slice into bars or squares and store in an airtight container or individually wrap with plastic wrap and store in the fridge!
i told them about myself and about how when i went to college the first  time, we had to live on campus all 4 years.
vegan perspective: clean eating this post is brilliant!
i wish someone had done this for me when i was in college!
email me at: theleangreenbean@gmail.com follow me on twitter: @leangrnbeanblog
i  wish we could do it for the little kids more but at least it seems like  it’s catching on somewhere.
it may take a little extra effort/planning/mini-fridge organization skills…but man i wish i would have done it
in a separate bowl, microwave the brown rice syrup and peanut butter until  melted.
enjoy with veggies, crackers, or on sandwiches.
add the chickpeas, reserved liquid, juice from the lemon, garlic and tahini to a food processor and process until smooth.
gothextramile  recently posted..abc’s of me reply abby @ abz 'n' oats says: march 15, 2012 at 9:46 am what an amazing opportunity!
we only had apartments for our  senior year.
since we  had an a la carte meal plan at baldwin-wallace, i had to pay for everything  thing i ate, so the want to spend less money also helped.
reply elisabeth @ chaarg says: march 15, 2012 at 10:48 pm love this post  thank you do much for coming in, we had so much fun!
stefanie @thenewhealthy recently posted..get to know me from a  to z reply brittany @ gothextramile says: march 15, 2012 at 9:43 am awesome tips!
it may  take a little extra effort/planning/mini-fridge organization skills…but  man i wish i would have done it
i’d love to do things like this once i get my rd…to be able to visually show people how they can make better food choices.
i wanted to be skinny and have fun… that’s part of the problem most 20 year olds think they’re invincible and can subsist on starbucks, 1 meal a day, and alcohol.
i did not eat well at all in college.
1  ½ c brown rice cereal 2 c oats ½ c brown rice syrup ¼ c chia seeds ¾ c raisins and/or craisins 1/3 c chocolate chips mix all the dry ingredients in a bowl.
luckily, during my last two years i moved home, so my nutritious meals got back on track in no time!reply love
stay satisfied great post!
fortunately, this sparked more than just a weight loss effort; i learned the ins and outs of nutrition and found that i really enjoy exercise, so today i’m more healthy and fit than ever before.
wish all college kids were health freaks like us  haha kelsey recently posted..
required fields are marked * name * email * website comment you may use these html tags and attributes:              hi, i'm lindsay!
try curried sweet potato & red pepper dip  with crackers for an afternoon snack nut butter-
(but still would have loved to have avoided it all with your helpful tips and recipes, here!)
pure2raw twins recently posted..strong legs i lived off cereal, fruit and pb and j sandwiches!
i just wish i had  thought about making about making some of these snacks when i lived on campus,  instead of living on cereal and easy mac for 3 years, or that i had thought to  stock my mini fridge with something besides party supplies.
i thought it’d be fun to share my presentation with you guys!
in sweetness and in health recently posted..
i wish a group  like chaarg would have been at osu when i attended!.
sounds like you provided some great recipe/meal ideas!
haha i guess it’s a good thing
i was the sodium queen yellow haired girl recently posted..
it stands for changing healthy, attitudes & actions to recreate girls.
i ate mostly huge salads and wraps using my  meal plan for dinners.
i’d love to do things like this once i get my  rd…to be able to visually show people how they can make better food  choices.
julianna @ julianna bananna recently posted..wiaw:
——————————————– peanut butter use your favorite nut and experiment with mix-ins like honey, cinnamon, raisins, cocoa powder, etc. 2 c nuts 2 tsp honey, or to taste 1/2 tsp cinnamon, or to taste 1-2 tsp oil, if desired directions: place the nuts in a food processor.
i’m so happy for you and so happy that i could be of help.
i was looking forward to your post about this.
the girls were so much fun!
i ate lots of walnuts, raisins, milk, fruit, and  granola bars i kept in my room.
small budget… no restrictions…  drinking… lots of weight gain!!
skinny vs strong reply kristen @ notsodomesticated says: march 15, 2012 at 6:59 am my diet in college varied.
bookmark the permalink.
finally junior year, i started doing more research and feeding my body properly.
stefanie @thenewhealthy recently posted..get to know me from a to z awesome tips!
place the peanuts in the processor and pulse until chopped.
press into a 9×13 pan and refrigerate until set.
what a fantastic idea.
bex  recently posted..#werk wednesday:
i have to say — i sort of fell  into that camp a little bit, though i was at least working out then, i  definitely wasn’t eating well (as in wholesome, real, fueling foods).
my college diet varied a lot  throughout the four years.
reply leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published.
you’re such a rock star!!!!
i wish i had someone like you come in to talk to me about
great ideas and list!!
so i ate a lot, and i mean a lot, of ramen.
there was some cereal and mac n cheese thrown in there  as well but i’d say i did better than average for sure
jess recently posted..
bananas- buy in a variety of stages of ripeness to enjoy  throughout the week apples & oranges-
when you’re ready to  eat, just shake it up and dig-in!
sounds like you provided some great  recipe/meal ideas!
abby @ abz ‘n’ oats recently posted..vent lindsay – this is fantastic.
run-strength (and weakness) reply lindsey @ the powell perspective says: march 15, 2012 at 11:17 am it would be great if new college students had these guidelines!
since we had an a la carte meal plan at baldwin-wallace, i had to pay for everything thing i ate, so the want to spend less money also helped.
———————————————- here’s a grocery list to get you started!
i think they should have this in the new student guides!!
2/3 c chopped dates ½ c raisins ½ c dry roasted peanuts directions: place the dates and raisins in the food processor and process until they are well-combined and resemble a paste.
my followers will love this… pinning!
heather @ for the love of kale recently posted..interview with christy morgan,  the blissful chef!
add the peanuts to the date mixture and use your hands to combine.
this entry was posted in  uncategorized.
miz recently posted..where do  you find your real motivation?
i also workout occasionally :) questions?
carrie@familyfitnessfood.com recently posted.. three things thursday
i lived in the dorms for two years and sometimes you just get tired of dining hall food!
but at least now i’m eating healthier!
julianna @  julianna bananna recently posted..wiaw:
protein powder add to your oats for an extra boost of protein mix into your smoothies post-workout mix with milk to make protein frosting
i also kind of wish our fridge and dorm room was filled with more than easy mac, juice boxes and cheez-its.
only bummer is, the place i’m hoping to go doesn’t allow any sort of appliance in your dorm room except for the fridge & microwave that they approve.
for hummus & veggie wraps,  falafel or burritos cereal- to enjoy with milk for breakfast and snacks protein: hummus- endless flavor combinations at your  fingertips!
poke a sweet potato with a fork  or knife all over, microwave for 5-6 minutes, top with nut butter, or beans and  veggies and enjoy for lunch.
no-bake granola bars these are totally  customizable!
reply cat @ breakfast to bed says: march 15, 2012 at 10:53 am right????
kristen @ notsodomesticated recently posted..wiaw:
reply tiff says: march 15, 2012 at 11:52 am i spent lots of time in the dining halls freshman and sophomore year.
i wish i knew you when i was in college and really
cat @ breakfast to bed recently posted..
meredith @ dareyouto recently posted..win popchips!
eventually, i decided to give a talk that i wish someone would have given  me when i was in college.
choose your favorite mix-ins, slice into bars or squares and  store in an airtight container or individually wrap with plastic wrap and store  in the fridge!
by best healthy eating blog subscription options: hi, i'm lindsay!
congrats on a job  well done jobo recently posted..
[mostly wordless] what i ate  wednesday – #8 reply heather montgomery says: march 15, 2012 at 8:53 am you put a lot of thought into this and di a great job.
ashley @ my food ‘n’ fitness diaries  recently posted..weight loss story reply lindsay @ fuel my family says: march 15, 2012 at 3:33 pm my diet was pretty good.
even though i lived at home for 75% of my college career … i fell victim to the late night crunch sessions at school or would spend 14 hour days making sure my assigments juuuust right.
i  don’t know how people do it reply alicia at poise in parma says: march 15, 2012 at 7:36 pm
it stands for changing healthy, attitudes &  actions to recreate girls.
can be made in minutes with minimal  ingredients and customized to your taste preferences with different nuts and  mix-ins.
it was after i gained the dreaded freshman 15 that i first started seeking information on nutrition, diet, exercise–anything to help me return to my former shape.
grab & go in the morning powercakes-i introduced them to this  easy meal from another ffa,kasey @ powercakes!
then i went super-healthy (like many of you super-healthy bloggers!), but honestly, i didn’t enjoy eating that healthy either haha.
my diet was ok in college.
————————————- sweet potato hummus start with a basic recipe and  make it your own with mix-ins like roasted red peppers, cooked sweet potato,  garlic, cayenne pepper, etc.
your comment will be queued in akismet!
season as  desired (try paprika or cayenne pepper for an kick!
abby @ abz ‘n’ oats recently posted..vent reply carrie@familyfitnessfood.com says: march 15, 2012 at 9:52 am lindsay – this is fantastic.
these are great solutions and better options than  the cereal i lived off of my freshman year.
wow, you are a genius!!
i totally wish i would have had this in college.
i wanted to cover the basics of healthy eating, give  them lots of ideas and inspiration, and show them that what a wide variety of  food you can prepare, even if you’re living in a dorm room.
i was so honored when they asked me to come speak to their group!
add the honey and cinnamon and pulse a few  times to combine.
plus, miami was great because they had so many healthy options to  chose from!
it can totally apply to any busy person  or a person with a small kitchen.
eating healthy in college my freshman year.
i wanted to be skinny and have fun… that’s part of the problem  most 20 year olds think they’re invincible and can subsist on starbucks,  1 meal a day, and alcohol.
summer after freshman year, i started counting calories and  would only eat about 1200 calories a day (horrible, in my opinion) and those  calories were usually from things like tv dinners and pudding snacks.
reply storiesandsweetpotatoes says: march 15, 2012 at 10:00 am great post for those stuck in dorms.
the hardest part is not overeating.
i wish i could of had this when i was in college.
then my sophomore year, my disordered eating habits began.
add the liquid to the dry ingredients to mix well (use your hands  if you need to!)
my school gave us so many choices and it was all you could eat!
i just wish i had thought about making about making some of these snacks when i lived on campus, instead of living on cereal and easy mac for 3 years, or that i had thought to stock my mini fridge with something besides party supplies.
want to make my own peanut butter now.
i actually started my weight loss journey in college so it is totally doable amanda @runtothefinish recently posted..
add the dressing to the bottom  first to keep everything else from getting soggy.
it was after i gained the dreaded  freshman 15 that i first started seeking information on nutrition, diet,  exercise–anything to help me return to my former shape.
i wasn’t super aware of  nutrition in college, i ate healthier than my friends for sure but i  didn’t know what i was doing like now.
i have learned so much since that time – and really wish i had someone like you over my shoulder back then to set me straight.
add the honey and cinnamon and pulse a few times to combine.
i’m hoping to get the meal plan with the fewest meals and then make the rest of the meals myself – most likely i’ll be making breakfast.
try  spreading it on your toast!
such a great message to be sending to college girls all over  — it’s like an epidemic, i swear – so many women in college  go into it having no clue how to eat properly and end up gaining the freshman  15 and then some.
required fields are marked * name * website comment you may use these html tags and attributes:                wordpress hashcash needs javascript to work, but your  browser has javascript disabled.
sarah @ the smart kitchen recently  posted..southwestern grapefruit avocado dip reply rachel @ the avid appetite says: march 15, 2012 at 2:38 pm this is awesome!
elizabeth & emily are fellow fitfluential ambassadors and the founders of this amazing group.
mix a  spoonful or two of the flavored kinds into plain for just a touch of sweetness.
in the microwave- cook 2 min, stir, cook  another 2 min cheese- use on top of salads, sandwiches or to eat with  crackers fats salad dressing- make your own oil and vinegar dressings  to add flavor and healthy fats nuts- full of protein and healthy fats, enjoy a handful  each day at snack time.
it’s a curse reply heather @
looks like it was a success.
when i first went to college i lived off frozen meals.
i’ll be a freshman next  year…bookmarking this sucker to refer back too!
i felt  sluggish a lot of the time which was not a good feeling!
livefail sarah @ the smart kitchen says: march 15, 2012 at 12:27 pm
skinny vs strong my diet in college varied.
pb & j lara bars make your own favorite flavor  at home with just a few ingredients.
meredith @  dareyouto recently posted..win popchips!
i was the sodium queen yellow haired girl recently  posted..
jana @ newly wife healthy life recently posted..beautiful bride on  the inside and out reply annica says: march 15, 2012 at 7:58 am this is awesome!
custom orthotics: foot dynamics great post!!!
in the microwave: bring water to  boil, add eggs, cook on low power or ½ power for 8 minutes, let stand a  few minutes more.
great advice for those currently living in dorms, or even if you aren’t and are new to cooking!reply this is awesome linz!!
heather @ for the love of kale recently posted..interview with christy morgan, the blissful chef!
these are great tips for young people every where!
my college diet varied a lot throughout the four years.
avocado- makes a great topping for salads and sandwiches,  or mix into smoothies.
last week i had the amazing opportunity to give a little presentation for the ladies ofchaarg.
they pretty much gave me free reign, so i spent some time really thinking about what i wanted to talk to them about.
i wish i had someone like you come in to talk to me about  eating healthy in college my freshman year.
then my second semester is  when i decided it was time to get healthy (i was also at my heighest weight  ever at this point).
equipment microwave- most dorms have one mini food processor- $20-30 shape your plate grains hot oats: microwave ½ c oats, 2/3 c water for  2 minutes.
how to eat healthy in college posted on march 15, 2012 by lindsay last week i had the amazing opportunity to give a little presentation for  the ladies ofchaarg.
then again, my metabolism was completely different then than it is now
although i am still going to use these tips today while at work and around the house.
season as desired (try paprika or cayenne pepper for an kick!
cookbook challenge: spaghetti, turkey & spinach casserole this is awesome!
currently i'm studying to become a registered dietitian.
you are a great role model my friend rachel @ the avid appetite recently posted..
haha i guess it’s a good thing i’ve always been good about haphazardly slapping healthy stuff together.
i also workout occasionally  :) questions?
thanks for all the great tips lily recently posted..wiaw: veggie overload wonderful tips!!
i don’t think i got any knives or cutting boards until i moved into my first apartment, and i didn’t really cook all that much until i got married.
so easy to sneak in my backpack, and also to snack on when i got home  from a long school day.
alicia at poise in parma recently posted..lessons learned: reassessing goals as a yogi & a runner ahh
pure2raw twins recently  posted..strong legs reply stellina @ my yogurt addiction says: march 15, 2012 at 10:47 pm i lived off cereal, fruit and pb and j sandwiches!
reply loved this post, especially because i’m heading off to college next year!
reply march 15, 2012 at 6:48 am this is great!
i wish someone had  done this for me when i was in college!
i really wish i had this information before going to  college way back.
reply meredith @ dareyouto says: march 15, 2012 at 8:17 am
i totally wish i would have had that in college–especially the years i was living on campus.
add the chickpeas, reserved liquid, juice from  the lemon, garlic and tahini to a food processor and process until smooth.
i’m intrigued by the microwave chia jam…i”ll have  to try it.
it’s a curse love this, lindsay!
2/3 c chopped dates ½ c dry roasted  peanuts directions: place the dates and raisins in the food  processor and process until they are well-combined and resemble a paste.
i don’t think i got any knives or  cutting boards until i moved into my first apartment, and i didn’t really  cook all that much until i got married.
now i’m grateful to live in a townhouse brittany @
those chaarg girls are awesome!
now i’m grateful to live in a townhouse brittany @ gothextramile recently posted..abc’s of me what an amazing opportunity!
carrie@familyfitnessfood.com recently posted.. three things thursday great post for those stuck in dorms.
reply march 15, 2012 at 6:35 am love this.
bex recently posted..#werk wednesday:
mix in a small bowl with mashed avocado, hummus or  greek yogurt instead of mayo.
i  love to cook, bake, eat and take pictures of food.
eventually, i decided to give a talk that i wish someone would have given me when i was in college.
heather montgomery recently posted..
reply mattie @ comfy and confident says: march 15, 2012 at 9:12 am
freshman year, i was clueless and ate pretty unhealthy foods.
in sweetness and in health recently posted..i don’t know how people do it the first semester of college, my diet was poor.
top with 6 oz plain greek yogurt, ¼ c granola, 1 tbsp chia  seeds and 1 medium apple diced and you have a breakfast packed with 20 g fiber,  26 g protein overnight oats- mix oats, milk, fruit,  chia seeds and nut butter.
i wish i knew you when i was in college  and really  want to make my own peanut butter now.
repeat with remaining mixture.
cat @ breakfast to bed recently  posted..
i think  i’ve finally found a balance that seems to work for me!
aren’t they adorable?!
i need them to come get  my fitness routine “in shape” (literally…heeheehee).
(but still would have loved to have  avoided it all with your helpful tips and recipes, here!)
i wanted to cover the basics of healthy eating, give them lots of ideas and inspiration, and show them that what a wide variety of food you can prepare, even if you’re living in a dorm room.
so easy to sneak in my backpack, and also to snack on when i got home from a long school day.
finally junior year, i started doing more research and feeding my body  properly.
reply march 15, 2012 at 10:18 am wow, linds!
i definitely had my fair share of late night  quesadillas or hungover greasy breakfast burritos, but for most breakfast,  lunches, and dinners, i took advantage of the salad station or stir-fry station  in our food court to customize my own veggie-filled meals!
i love to cook, bake, eat and take pictures of food.
i would have loved something like this when i went to  college.
repeat with  remaining mixture.
let’s just say it’s improved a lot since then, thank goodness!
then again, my metabolism  was completely different then than it is now
luckily, during my  last two years i moved home, so my nutritious meals got back on track in no  time!
in sweetness and in health says: march 15, 2012 at 6:53 pm love this!!!
reply jobo says: march 15, 2012 at 10:09 am wow, you are a genius!!
microwave- most dorms have one mini food processor- $20-30 toaster- $20 mini blender- $30 can opener mason jars/tupperware knife & cutting board measuring cups dishes grains protein: veggies fruit dairy fats snacks protein powder
it is possible to eat healthy in college, even when  you’re living in a dorm and have limited kitchen access/equipment.
second you are truly proof  that college can be healthy!!
run-strength (and weakness) it would be great if new college students had these guidelines!
my diet was horrendous… and i gained the freshman 20 to prove it.
peanut butter use your favorite nut and experiment  with mix-ins like honey, cinnamon, raisins, cocoa powder, etc. 2 c nuts 2 tsp honey, or to taste 1/2 tsp cinnamon, or to taste 1-2 tsp oil, if desired directions: place the nuts in a food processor.
the  avid appetite recently posted..cookbook challenge: spaghetti, turkey &  spinach casserole reply ashley @ my food 'n' fitness diaries says: march 15, 2012 at 2:46 pm this is awesome!
sarah @ sarah learns recently posted..training update love this!!
divide mixture into thirds, place one third on a piece of saran wrap.
i ate mostly huge salads and wraps using my meal plan for dinners.