he’s right to hang in there, said jones, a usc nutrition expert.
“continuing to model a fast food menu at school helps create preference for fast food,” said sonya jones, deputy director of the university of south carolina’s center for research in nutrition and health disparities.
“it’s in the best interests of the students,” cabading said.
“children need the opportunity to learn to like a wide variety of foods,” jones said.
those are among the biggest sellers, server carol hinson said, along with  hot wings and pizza.
new federal rules, which start taking effect this year, are meant to improve school food in the long run.
with an entree of “beef dippers” – small processed beef patties the same shape as chicken nuggets – elementary students in february got a side of canned green beans, canned pears and boxed mashed potatoes reconstituted with hot water.
“the problem is you can make them as healthy as you want, and you feed the trash,” mitchell said.
or have children plant an edible garden and then harvest the fruits  and veggies.
“you just don’t have the staff” to pound fresh beef into patties, said brackett in york.
research shows that children typically must taste something six to 10 times before they’re comfortable with it, jones said.
“we love our  cheeseburgers and hot dogs and things like that.
the findings suggest the high amounts of “salt and preservatives ... might explain the higher risk of heart disease and diabetes seen with processed meats,” researchers concluded.
when there’s enough of a voice, that should hopefully be heard by the school board.”
food service directors said they understand the concerns, but are hampered  by tight budgets and picky palates.
they serve fewer fried foods and offer more  fruits and vegetables.
“continuing to model a fast food menu at school helps create  preference for fast food,” said sonya jones, deputy director of the  university of south carolina’s center for research in nutrition and  health disparities.
as of 2010, according to the center for disease control, 31.5 percent of south carolinians were obese.
corn dogs are actually turkey dogs with “whole grain breading.”
“that’s what they like,” hinson said.
some schools even let students take a second trip through the lunch line for extra helpings of fruits and veggies.
new federal rules, which start taking effect this year, are meant to  improve school food in the long run.
another 17 percent of children in both grades are overweight.
breakfast rock hill: $1 fort mill: $1.05 clover: $1 york: 75 cents  lunch rock hill: elementary, $2; middle and high, $2.25-$2.50 fort mill:  elementary, $1.65;
“i like to get the chicken sandwich,” said rileigh glasgow, a  south pointe high sophomore.
while that’s yet to happen, the new rules require schools to significantly curb the amount of sodium and eliminate trans fats within 10 years.
have a celebrity chef drop by for demonstrations and lessons, she  suggested.
“now that we know where we are, it’s time to get parents and the community to take some reasonable and affordable steps to provide children with as healthy meals as we can,” said keely, a rock hill physician.
while that’s yet to happen, the new rules require schools to  significantly curb the amount of sodium and eliminate trans fats within 10  years.
they require schools to double the amount of fruits and vegetables served, increase whole grains, serve only low fat or fat-free milk and limit trans fats.
the cdc calls it an “epidemic.”
gold hill elementary this week is testing a new web application that crunches nutrition values for lunch offerings and pinpoints the healthiest combination.
but “i will never eat the wraps or corn  dogs.
in a nation where about a third of adults and 17 percent of children are obese, south carolina is among the heaviest.
but “i will never eat the wraps or corn dogs.
rock hill schools food service had expenses of $6.87 million last school  year, according to district figures.
“we really view school meals as an opportunity to reinforce healthy eating habits.
cabading thinks it could take students their elementary career before they’re accustomed to a healthier menu.
“you’ve got 4,000 students that are going to eat that hamburger.”
“it's like a chick-fil-a sandwich, but school.
the share of fort mill students eating lunch in the last two years has  dropped from 55 percent to 49 percent.
with the school board’s blessing, he plans to continue limiting the  appearance of pizza and burgers on elementary menus.
through the national school lunch program, the usda reimburses participating districts for each meal: $2.77 for low-income students receiving free lunch; $2.37 for students paying reduced price; and 26 cents for students paying full price.
kitchen staff bake meat loaf and bone-in chicken from scratch.
“some of the changes that might come about are going to require  parents voicing their concerns and requests.
« prev 1 of 3 photos next » most york county schools are well on the way to meeting some of those rules, food service directors said.
have a celebrity chef drop by for demonstrations and lessons, she suggested.
factbox1-b821207006z  "school district; students enrolled; % eating  lunch daily on average rock hill; 17,300; 60 percent fort mill; 10,800; 49  percent clover; 6,600; 60 percent york; 5,143; 78 percentlunch prices  here’s a look at how much meals cost in york county’s four school  districts.
“i would like to think i’m helping the education  process.”
american obesity was a driving force behind the u.s. department of agriculture’s new rules for school meals, usda spokeswoman jean daniel said.
“we try to look at what the fast food companies serve and do it in a  healthier way,” said sandra brackett, food service director for the york  school district.
middle and high, $1.90-$2.50 clover: elementary, $1.90;  middle and high, $2.15-$2.90 york: elementary,$1.75; middle and high, $1.85 most york county schools are well on the way to meeting some of those  rules, food service directors said.
“we try to look at what the fast food companies serve and do it in a healthier way,” said sandra brackett, food service director for the york school district.
rock hill schools have served asparagus, kiwi and blood oranges while in  season.
eat smart, move more york county, a group advocating healthy lifestyles,  recently analyzed weight and height measurements for 75 percent of rock hill  schools’ third- and fourth-graders.
dietitians lead nutrition lessons urging children to make “healthy choices.”
federal officials say schools can play a crucial role in reshaping the  nation’s health.
“it's like a chick-fil-a sandwich, but  school.
south pointe senior catherine allen sticks to subs, salads and chicken  sandwiches.
hope and collards even though shifting tastes has proven tougher than he hoped,
the system school food service is a business in which success is measured mainly by  how many students eat and what they avoid or toss in the trash.
the potato flakes were processed with preservatives.
a trip through an elementary lunch line is a reminder of how tough it can  be to take on tweaking tastes.
some districts – including clover  and york – outsource meal operations to private companies.
“children learn their eating and exercising habits early in life,” she said.
we all have chicken nuggets, chicken sandwiches, burgers and pizza.”
“if we fill them up on chicken nuggets, they  don’t have opportunities to taste other foods.”
facing an ‘epidemic’
local food directors design menus and order food vendors and a list of 180  usda commodities.
american obesity was a driving force behind the u.s. department of  agriculture’s new rules for school meals, usda spokeswoman jean daniel  said.
that’s intended to push food companies to improve their products, daniel said.
some districts – including clover and york – outsource meal operations to private companies.
still, directors said they’re offering more fruits and vegetables  than ever.
with the school board’s blessing, he plans to continue limiting the appearance of pizza and burgers on elementary menus.
the share of fort mill students eating lunch in the last two years has dropped from 55 percent to 49 percent.
published: monday, mar. 19, 2012 / updated: monday, mar. 19, 2012 10:08 am york county school meals are healthier, but not enough, nutritionists say by shawn
“children need the opportunity to learn to like a wide variety of  foods,” jones said.
on days when baked chicken and meat loaf are served, students leave notes in comment boxes requesting chicken nuggets instead.
federal officials say schools can play a crucial role in reshaping the nation’s health.
“if you go across the country, half to 75 percent of our menus are the same products.
“i would like to think i’m helping the education process.”
food service director roland cabading has added a variety of salads and cut  back on snacks and drinks served “a la carte.”
asked why she doesn’t eat anything else, allen said: “i feel  like it's not real meat.
a 2010 study by the harvard school of public health concluded that eating processed meats such as bacon, salami, sausages, hot dogs and deli meats can raise the risk of diabetes and heart disease.
according to the  package’s nutrition information, a serving contains more than 20 percent  of the recommended daily intake of sodium for children.
“you just don’t have the staff” to pound fresh beef into  patties, said brackett in york.
trays of stuffed shells and veggie wraps go uneaten.
about a quarter of the students are obese.
asked why she doesn’t eat anything else, allen said: “i feel like it's not real meat.
those are among the biggest sellers, server carol hinson said, along with hot wings and pizza.
top jobssee more top jobs quick job search
they require schools to double the amount  of fruits and vegetables served, increase whole grains, serve only low fat or  fat-free milk and limit trans fats.
as of 2010, according to the center for disease control, 31.5 percent of  south carolinians were obese.
“it’s in the best interests of the students,” cabading  said.
cheese and milk are low fat.
dietitians lead nutrition lessons urging children to make “healthy  choices.”
“if we fill them up on chicken nuggets, they don’t have opportunities to taste other foods.”
“the kids here like their processed chicken.”
such efforts are promising, but nutrition advocates say menus dominated by processed, fast food fare undermine those noble attempts and leave school meals a long way from healthy.
cabading’s menus boast squash casserole, veggie lasagna and whole  grain pasta shells stuffed with spinach and ricotta cheese.
or have children plant an edible garden and then harvest the fruits and veggies.
on days when baked  chicken and meat loaf are served, students leave notes in comment boxes  requesting chicken nuggets instead.
that’s intended to push food companies to improve their products,  daniel said.
corn dogs are actually turkey dogs with “whole grain  breading.”
eat smart, move more is working with other school districts to gauge obesity rates among students.
“that means 41 percent, or more than two out of every five children  participating in the survey, are either overweight or obese,” keely said.
food service directors said they understand the concerns, but are hampered by tight budgets and picky palates.
i wish they had more fresh ingredients.”
collard greens, for instance, were new to the menu this year and went uneaten for months.
most districts have their own food department intended to run as a non-profit, self-sustaining business.
with an entree of “beef  dippers” – small processed beef patties the same shape as chicken  nuggets – elementary students in february got a side of canned green  beans, canned pears and boxed mashed potatoes reconstituted with hot water.
when possible, the food’s fresh.
collard greens, for instance, were new to the menu this year and went  uneaten for months.
“that means 41 percent, or more than two out of every five children participating in the survey, are either overweight or obese,” keely said.
the findings suggest the high amounts of “salt and preservatives ...
still, directors said they’re offering more fruits and vegetables than ever.
“we have encouraged schools to move away from processed food.”
still many meals include processed, pre-packaged products resembling  what’s typically served at drive-through windows – precisely the  type of food health advocates urge children to steer clear of.
through the national school lunch program, the usda reimburses  participating districts for each meal: $2.77 for low-income students receiving  free lunch; $2.37 for students paying reduced price; and 26 cents for students  paying full price.
“if you go across the country, half to 75 percent of  our menus are the same products.
“the problem is you can make them as healthy as you want, and you  feed the trash,” mitchell said.
by 2022, schools must cut the amount of  sodium served in half.
“we really view school meals as an opportunity to  reinforce healthy eating habits.
a 2010 study by the harvard school of public health concluded that eating  processed meats such as bacon, salami, sausages, hot dogs and deli meats can  raise the risk of diabetes and heart disease.
cabading thinks it could take students their elementary career before  they’re accustomed to a healthier menu.
“some of the changes that might come about are going to require parents voicing their concerns and requests.
eat smart, move more york county, a group advocating healthy lifestyles, recently analyzed weight and height measurements for 75 percent of rock hill schools’ third- and fourth-graders.
“now that we know where we are, it’s time to get parents and  the community to take some reasonable and affordable steps to provide children  with as healthy meals as we can,” said keely, a rock hill physician.
cetrone - scetrone@heraldonline.com schools across york county offer salad bars and whole grain bread at lunch.
pizza crusts and burger buns are whole grain.
local food directors design menus and order food vendors and a list of 180 usda commodities.
but canned vegetables are common.
he wants to introduce new vegetables and cook more entrees “from scratch.”
directors said they want to offer healthier entrees, but are operating  within the system they’re given.
“you’re trying to serve nutritional food, but you’re also  trying to run a business,” said chad mitchell, food service director for  rock hill schools.
dozens of belleview elementary students in rock hill scuttled through the  lunch line one february afternoon, most passing on the new turkey pot pie with  peas and carrots for the cheeseburger and fries.
still many meals include processed, pre-packaged products resembling what’s typically served at drive-through windows – precisely the type of food health advocates urge children to steer clear of.
attempts to offer healthier options frequently flop, food directors said.
processed foods considered unhealthy generally contain preservatives and excess sodium and saturated fat.
“the kids here  like their processed chicken.”
a trip through an elementary lunch line is a reminder of how tough it can be to take on tweaking tastes.
south pointe senior catherine allen sticks to subs, salads and chicken sandwiches.
we all have chicken nuggets, chicken  sandwiches, burgers and pizza.”
might explain the higher risk of heart disease and diabetes seen with processed  meats,” researchers concluded.
and “processed meat in any form is not healthy.”
it’s been an uphill battle.
some turn to what they assume children prefer.
multiple studies have linked processed meat consumption to chronic illnesses like diabetes, obesity, heart disease and cancer.
the results, eat smart director david keely said, are “astounding.”
gold hill elementary this week is testing a new web application that  crunches nutrition values for lunch offerings and pinpoints the healthiest  combination.
rock hill schools food service had expenses of $6.87 million last school year, according to district figures.
such efforts are promising, but nutrition advocates say menus dominated by  processed, fast food fare undermine those noble attempts and leave school meals  a long way from healthy.
processed foods considered unhealthy generally contain preservatives and  excess sodium and saturated fat.
students loading up trays with those items get to ring a bell for recognition.
fort mill schools have gone the farthest in pushing healthier meals.
directors said they want to offer healthier entrees, but are operating within the system they’re given.
in a nation where about a third of adults and 17 percent of children are  obese, south carolina is among the heaviest.
rock hill schools have served asparagus, kiwi and blood oranges while in season.
students loading up trays with those items get to ring a bell for  recognition.
they serve fewer fried foods and offer more fruits and vegetables.
cabading said he’s encouraged by small victories.
by 2022, schools must cut the amount of sodium served in half.
shawn cetrone 803-329-4072melissa cherry contributed top jobs quick job search enter keyword(s): select a  category: – all job categories – accounting admin/clericalautomotivebankingbiotechbroadcast/journalismbusiness development constructionconsultantcustomer servicedesigndistribution/shippingeducation engineeringentry levelexecutivefacilitiesfinancegeneral
another 17 percent of children  in both grades are overweight.
the wrap tastes like dried, gross meat.”
most districts have their own food department intended to run as a  non-profit, self-sustaining business.
the system school food service is a business in which success is measured mainly by how many students eat and what they avoid or toss in the trash.
“we love our cheeseburgers and hot dogs and things like that.
« prev 1 of 3 photos next » slideshow mcherry@heraldonline.com - sloppy joe sandwich,  breaded okra, pineapple cup, strawberry fat free milk, coleslaw and  orange-pineapple juice.
with the other items on  the plate, students got more than 65 percent of the daily sodium recommendation.
according to the package’s nutrition information, a serving contains more than 20 percent of the recommended daily intake of sodium for children.
the results, eat smart director david keely said, are  “astounding.”
dozens of belleview elementary students in rock hill scuttled through the lunch line one february afternoon, most passing on the new turkey pot pie with peas and carrots for the cheeseburger and fries.
schools across york county offer salad bars and whole grain bread at lunch.
to make that happen, she urges educators to get creative.
with the other items on the plate, students got more than 65 percent of the daily sodium recommendation.
some schools even let students take a second trip through the  lunch line for extra helpings of fruits and veggies.
fort  mill’s cabading is standing fast – even if that means relying on  reserves to make up for lost revenue.
eat smart, move more is working with other school districts to gauge  obesity rates among students.
“i like to get the chicken sandwich,” said rileigh glasgow, a south pointe high sophomore.
“you’ve got 4,000 students that are  going to eat that hamburger.”
food service director roland cabading has added a variety of salads and cut back on snacks and drinks served “a la carte.”
“it’s going to take time,” he said.
“children learn their eating and exercising habits early in  life,” she said.
multiple studies have linked processed meat consumption to chronic  illnesses like diabetes, obesity, heart disease and cancer.
students have mixed feelings about lunch.
cabading’s menus boast squash casserole, veggie lasagna and whole grain pasta shells stuffed with spinach and ricotta cheese.
“you’re trying to serve nutritional food, but you’re also trying to run a business,” said chad mitchell, food service director for rock hill schools.
but students are starting to chow down.
research shows that children typically must taste something six to 10 times  before they’re comfortable with it, jones said.
cheese and  milk are low fat.
he wants to introduce new  vegetables and cook more entrees “from scratch.”
businessgeneral labor governmenthealth carehotel/hospitalityhuman resourcesinformation technology insuranceinventorylegallegal adminmanagementmanufacturingmarketingnurseother pharmaceuticalprofessional servicespurchasingqa/quality controlresearch restaurant/food serviceretail/grocerysalesscienceskilled labor/trades strategy/planningsupply chaintelecommunicationstrainingtransportationwarehouse - advanced search
hope and collards even though shifting tastes has proven tougher than he hoped, fort mill’s cabading is standing fast – even if that means relying on reserves to make up for lost revenue.
when there’s enough of a  voice, that should hopefully be heard by the school board.”