bake the fries until golden brown and crisp.
sign up » interact: follow us on twitter | find us on facebookdindins food, llc © 2010
season with a sprinkle of kosher salt and freshly ground pepper.
season  with a sprinkle of kosher salt and freshly ground pepper.
clean a few sweet potatoes with a vegetable scrubber (leave the skin on) and slice the potatoes into french fry strips the size of your choosing.
your kids love french fries.
why not try baked sweet potato fries?
spread out the fries on a foil-lined baking sheet and drizzle with 1 – 2 tbsp olive oil.
we're temporarily closed.
you want to see your kids eating foods that are good for them.
with all the food groups incorporated into one food, you don't need to worry about serving a protein, a starch and a vegetable.
at dindins, we provide healthy, convenient, organic and all-natural toddler food.
3-5 potatoes may take between 35-45 minutes.
you can serve these fries plain or with non-fat or low-fat plain greek yogurt and a little lemon juice as a dip!
spread out the fries on a  foil-lined baking sheet and drizzle with 1 – 2 tbsp olive oil.
site map | privacy policy | terms of use | contact | about | testimonials | press | gift cards
you can  serve these fries plain or with non-fat or low-fat plain greek yogurt and a  little lemon juice as a dip!
posted on  april 6, 2010 | published innutrition | comments (0)
find out more about dindins » sign up for our e-newsletter and receive our latest nutrition tips, product updates, and maybe a coupon code or two directly in your inbox.
sweet potatoes are  loaded with vitamins c, beta-carotene, manganese, potassium and fiber.
bake the fries until  golden brown and crisp.
preheat your oven to 400 degrees fahrenheit.
a healthier take on french fries…and just  as yummy!
a healthier take on french fries…and just as yummy!
check back soon for updates.
clean a few sweet potatoes  with a vegetable scrubber (leave the skin on) and slice the potatoes into  french fry strips the size of your choosing.
sweet potatoes are loaded with vitamins c, beta-carotene, manganese, potassium and fiber.
you want to see your kids eating foods that  are good for them.
comments are closed on this post at this time.
find out when we're back online
our store is temporarily closed.