you can  use it internally and topically for these conditions.
david wolfe’s book eating for beauty is a good example of how the foods we eat can affect the way we feel and the way we look.
make-up artist kandee johnson recommends nutiva hempshakes for fitness and  weight loss the healthy crossroads of fashion and nutrition
much of the magic lies in the way the oil is processed.
let us know us if you try these and how you think it worked for you.
there are endless ways to use coconut oil  that extend far beyond the occasional cookie or stir-fry.
we found this excellent article over at seek-inn.com the other day.
skin conditions – since coconut oil is moisturizing,  antimicrobial, antifungal and anti-inflammatory, it’s a great natural  remedy for all kinds of skin problems ranging from eczema to acne to diaper  rash.
in it she recommends nutiva’shempshakes in  the mornings as an integral part of her weight loss and fitness program.
for centuries, people have cherished coconut oil for its beautiful flavor, and it has widely been used in cooking throughout the world.
add  spearmint or peppermint oil with stevia for a fresh, sweet flavor.
i cook eggs with it, bake with it, put it on vegetables and toast, use it as skin/massage oil, use it as an anti-fungal, anti-bacterial on skin, nail, hair problems.
coconut oil  subscribe good fats product testimonial: nutiva coconut oil this testimonial comes to us from a happy customer in florida great for mind, body, skin and dogs!
hair conditioner – apply a thin layer of coconut oil to your scalp and hair.
these molecules are small enough to be absorbed  directly into the liver and used as an immediate source of energy by the body.
some more surprising benefits include an ability to lower cholesterol, reduce the risk of heart disease and actually stimulate weight loss.
omega-3 oil serves numerous  bodily processes and is particularly beneficial to the immune system and heart  as well as arthritis, skin conditions, pre-menstrual tension, mental function,  improving memory and reducing depressive symptoms.
refined  cooking oils are also detrimental, with harsh processing methods altering oil  molecules and creating toxins and free radicals.
as will be explored, both coconut oil and omega-3 oil can  speed up metabolism and accelerate the burning of fats in the body.
copyright 2006 sylvia riley
this negatively impacts our heart, hormone,skin, and brain functions and leads to greater inflammation.
omega-3 oil is found in cold-water fish such as sardines, salmon, herring  and mackerel as well as plant sources such as flax seeds (the richest plant  source), walnuts, pumpkin seeds, mustard seeds, green-leafed vegetables and  spirulina.
add this to your mix of healthy fats – evoo, flax oil, ghee, etc.
as will be explored, both coconut oil and omega-3 oil can speed up metabolism and accelerate the burning of fats in the body.
with around 50% lauric acid content (an acid also found in mother's milk), it helps support a healthy metabolism and is being researched for its ability to protect against fungus, bacteria and viruses.
here is her video mentioning the nutiva hempshake products: making love in the kitchen: lube up…with coconut oil.
the idea that some fats may actually help you loose weight however, is a little further-fetched, and yet it appears this seeming paradox is indeed the case.
hydrogenated fats as found in chocolates, baked products and margarines  are even worse and contain trans fats, the most harmful fats of all.
more and more homes have a jar of  organic extra virgin coconut oil on their pantry shelf.
every family should use this product (nutiva has the best, best, best coconut oil).
this is healthy, good,  and important for your body!
experience the versatility of virgin coconut oil of course, coconut oil can be used in other ways as well.
within several hours of the coconuts being chopped, the meat is cold-pressed, unlike other varieties of coconut oil which can be left for more than 10 hours before pressing.
whether you want a healthy replacement for vegetable and animal fat for your cooking, or are simply looking for better options in your daily skin care regime, choose nutiva's unrefined virgincoconut oil.
sun screen – coconut oil provides effective and  natural sun protection without exposing your body to the toxic chemicals and  metals in conventional sun block.
if you need a moisturizer  for your lips, try coconut oil in a commercial lip balm container.
coconut manna™ is creamy whole coconut that will delight people looking forcoconut butter, coconut cream, coconut oil butter and coconut body butter.
lip balm – lip moisturizers are filled with chemicals, and natural products are often pricey.
the youtube clip is a reality tv showing the industrial foods they were eating and then the new healthier foods they have switched to.
lip balm – lip moisturizers are filled with  chemicals, and natural products are often pricey.
insulin promotes the  use of fat for storage and reduces the use of fat for fuel, hence lower insulin  levels mean a greater conversion of fat for energy rather than storage.
i have used it to cure my baby’s cradle  cap, and i use it to cure my dogs’ tear stains and itchy girl parts.
coconut oil is often used in skin creams and lotions for its ability to moisturize and nourish the skin.
detoxification – there are many methods for detoxifying the body, but coconut oil is unique because it can provide energy while cleansing the body.
saturated animal fats are notoriously linked to obesity, heart disease and cancer.
insulin promotes the use of fat for storage and reduces the use of fat for fuel, hence lower insulin levels mean a greater conversion of fat for energy rather than storage.
this is one of my most important food stuffs.
there are endless ways to use coconut oil that extend far beyond the occasional cookie or stir-fry.
it houses lauric acid,  an antimicrobial fatty acid that fights bacteria, viruses and fungi.
this is an effective yet gentle method, suitable for young children or babies with cradle cap, too.
while it’s hard to believe the average american  diet consists of 20% soy oil in total calories.
david wolfe’s book eating for beauty is a good  example of how the foods we eat can affect the way we feel and the way we look.
coconut oil protects against free radicals, which provides added protection against skin cancer.
here are twelve creative uses for a classic health food: colds and sore throats – coconut oil has antimicrobial properties that can help you recover from a cold.
why choose nutiva's unrefined coconut oil? what makes nutiva's virgin coconut oil so special?
sun screen – coconut oil provides effective and natural sun protection without exposing your body to the toxic chemicals and metals in conventional sun block.
it has also been found to benefit conditions such as diabetes, chronic fatigue and fibromyalgia, digestive disorders and thyroid imbalances.
make-up remover – coconut oil is a very effective make-up remover, so you can toss out all the chemical-laden products from the drug store.
when i was down in the caribbean for my little holiday, one of the things i loved most is getting fresh coconut right off the beautiful palms![click to continue…] learn how two women are losing body weight and improving their health.
but coconut oil is more than a healthy cooking alternative.
omega-3 oil serves numerous bodily processes and is particularly beneficial to the immune system and heart as well as arthritis, skin conditions, pre-menstrual tension, mental function, improving memory and reducing depressive symptoms.
fungal infections – coconut oil contains strong  antifungal agents, and can be used to treat fungal infections like  athlete’s foot, ringworm, thrush and vaginal yeast infections.
you can use it internally and topically for these conditions.
this information in no way new news; the article was originally written  in 2006, but now, in 2009 many people still do not understand the important  role healthy fats play in a balanced diet.
coconut oil protects against free radicals,  which provides added protection against skin cancer.
they place no strain on the digestive system and their availability for  metabolism means they are not likely to be stored as fat (unlike high-calorie  cholesterol-heavy long-chain animal fats).
i cook eggs with it, bake with it, put it on vegetables and toast, use  it as skin/massage oil,  use it as an anti-fungal, anti-bacterial on skin,  nail, hair problems.
she recently made a youtube video to address her viewers’ frequently asked questions about her lifestyle and how it affects her well being.
this is a great example of the fact that people can lose weight by eating lot’s of healthy fats by incorporating organic fruits and veggies into their diet.
ourcoconut oil is also unhydrogenated, eliminating the unhealthy fats found in hydrogenated oils.
in a tribute to kandee and her fans, nutiva has decided to extend our  hempshake sale on our website at www.nutiva.com until june 1st.
here's a great early  morning power shake for you.
those who switch to more "western" ingredients, such as omega-6 laden vegetable oils, often show a remarkable increase in these illnesses and other health problems.
the benefits of coconut oil's lauric acid are so strong, it is often added to baby formula to help infants develop strong and healthy systems.
with its healthy properties, excellent taste and beautiful aroma, unrefined coconut oil from nutiva is the perfect solution.
when we are feeling our best.
this negatively impacts our  heart, hormone,skin, and brain functions and leads to greater inflammation.
contrary to popular belief, eating well doesn't have to mean a drastic overhaul of how you cook.
while millions of americans are discovering the many benefits of using organic coconut oil, their are dozens of other great uses for coconut oil.
distinguishing between fats is imperative for optimum health and weight.
coconut manna™ is a delicious whole food, made of pure, dried coconut flesh which will “melt in your mouth.”
mix it with  warm tea and honey for a very soothing throat remedy.
those who still subscribe to a coconut-rich diet display low incidences of heart disease or obesity.
in it we recommend  switching out unhealthy fats in your diet for coconut oil and hemp oil and  using our other hempseed products; the shelled hempseeds, hemp protein powder,  and hempshakes.
toothpaste – mix an equal amount of coconut oil and  baking soda for an all-natural, fluoride-free toothpaste.
as you can see, there is more to coconut oil that what meets the eye – or the frying pan!
by meghan telpner see original article on  www.meghantelpnerblog.com meghan telpner is a toronto-based nutritionist and holistic lifestyle  consultant.
one popular method is to take 1-2 tablespoon of  coconut oil seven times per day for one to seven days to cleanse the body from  toxins, impurities and candida.
add spearmint or peppermint oil with stevia for a fresh, sweet flavor.
by mark bielski nutiva internet sales and customer service manager when do we look our best?
ingredients: 1 bunch… » strawberry 3-2-2-1 protein shake |
omega-3 oil is another virtuous fat that can actually speed up the burning of fats in the body and hence aid weight loss.
why virgin coconut oil is good for you unrefined coconut oil doesn't just taste better, it's better for you.
coconut oil is also supremely healthy; a saturated fat structurally different from animal saturated fats containing medium-chain as opposed to long-chain fatty acids.
thanks, kandee, for being a loyal nutiva fan and for sharing your  enthusiasm and zest for life with your followers.
thanks, kandee, for being a loyal nutiva fan and for sharing your enthusiasm and zest for life with your followers.
in the news nutiva news nutrition organic foods press releases recipes recipes  – appetizers recipes – chia recipes – coconut manna recipes  – coconut oil recipes – desserts recipes – entrees recipes  – hemp recipes – holiday recipes – raw recipes – salads  recipes – side dish recipes – smoothies recipes – soups  recipes – vegan recipes – vegetarian soy food concerns survey  sustainability sustainable agriculture testimonials testimonials coconut manna  testimonials organic chia testimonials organic coconut oil testimonials organic  hemp oil testimonials organic hemp protein testimonials organic hemp seed  testimonials organic hemp shake testimonials raw centrifuge
for example, nutiva's extra-virgin coconut oil is not only good for you, but it's an excellent addition to any kitchen.
kandee johnson, a young, well known youtube make up artist, with a flair  for creating amazing looks, looks amazing herself, and she attributes this in  part to her diet and workout routine.
one of the main reasons omega 3 oil increases fat metabolism is because of its effects on insulin, significantly reducing it’s levels in the body.
by mark bielski nutiva internet sales and customer service  manager when do we look our best?
in it she recommends nutiva’shempshakes in the mornings as an integral part of her weight loss and fitness program.
i love  coconut milk.
in the news media media coverage nutiva
mix it with warm tea and honey for a very soothing throat remedy.
as you can see, there is more to coconut oil that what meets the eye  – or the frying pan!
click here to find out more about nutiva organic extra virgin coconut oil.
discover one key weight loss secret of switching out “bad fats” of junk veggie corn,soy & canola oils for “good fats” of hemp, olive, and coconut oils.
it is also important on this plan to eat lots of fresh fruits  and vegetables, organic whenever possible, and to eliminate the junk fats and  foods from your diet.
certainly, genes play their  part in overall health as well as our environment but making the most of what  we are given can be influenced greatly by what we choose to eat and the  activities we engage in.
the incredible oils that actually aid weight  loss!
our virgin coconut oil is unrefined, unbleached and unfermented, giving it a light taste, pleasant aroma and pure white color.
natural cold-pressed oils such as nut, seed, olive and fish oils, contain  healthy essential fatty acids, monounsaturated fats, nutrients and  phytochemicals that serve the body.
meghan telpner is a toronto-based nutritionist and holistic lifestyle consultant.
while it’s hard to believe the average american diet consists of 20% soy oil in total calories.
some more  surprising benefits include an ability to lower cholesterol, reduce the risk of  heart disease and actually stimulate weight loss.
this is a great example of  the fact that people can lose weight by eating lot’s of healthy fats by  incorporating  organic fruits and veggies into their diet.
toothpaste – mix an equal amount of coconut oil and baking soda for an all-natural, fluoride-free toothpaste.
her making love in the kitchen video series will bring you tips on  how to prepare healthful, nutritious goodness from whole foods.
fungal infections – coconut oil contains strong antifungal agents, and can be used to treat fungal infections like athlete’s foot, ringworm, thrush and vaginal yeast infections.
coconut i love coconut.
many of you are already familiar with the nutiva diet makeover plan which  is a program we developed for weight loss and well being.
refined cooking oils are also detrimental, with harsh processing methods altering oil molecules and creating toxins and free radicals.
do you have a  recipe you… » home
insulin inhibits the enzyme lipase which breaks down fat for use as energy and  activates an enzyme that converts carbohydrate into fat.
i have used it to cure my baby’s cradle cap, and i use it to cure my dogs’ tear stains and itchy girl parts.
coconut oil can quite literally be called a low-fat fat.’
i love coconut water.
probably not on big macs and big gulp sodas.
discover one key weight loss secret of switching out “bad fats” of  junk veggie corn,soy & canola oils for “good fats” of hemp,  olive, and coconut oils.
previous entries discover 100's of delicious recipes hemp and coconut oil infused quinoa and potatoes recipe this  yummy-looking flavor combination comes to us courtesy of nutiva recipe club  member joey mendelsohn.
ironically, with the demand for leaner meat today, they are now  using coconut oil for this exact purpose.
dandruff – several times per week, coat your fingertips with coconut oil and massage it into your scalp for an easy dandruff cure.
cuts and scrapes – coconut oil can be used as a  topical cream for common cuts and scrapes, protecting against infection while  conditioning the skin to heal faster.
many of you are already familiar with the nutiva diet makeover plan which is a program we developed for weight loss and well being.
the notion of ‘healthy fats’ is becoming increasingly  acknowledged.
here are twelve  creative uses for a classic health food: colds and sore throats – coconut oil has  antimicrobial properties that can help you recover from a cold.
the  youtube clip is a reality tv showing the industrial foods they were eating and  then the new healthier foods they have switched to.
nutiva is proud to offer an extensive range of healthy, delicious hemp foods and virgin coconut oil products that make it easier than ever to start eating right.
when i was down in the caribbean for my little holiday, one of the things i  loved most is getting fresh coconut right off the beautiful palms![click to  continue…] nutiva diet makeover- improve your diet the organic way now on youtube learn how two women are losing body weight and improving their health.
dr. weston a price, the darwin of nutrition writes: ‘replacing the fats you now eat with coconut oil may be the wisest decision you can make to lose excess body fat…yes, there is a dietary fat that can actually help you take off unwanted pounds.
saturated animal fats are notoriously linked to obesity, heart disease and  cancer.
raymond peat md, author of coconut oil and its virtues concludes, ‘the anti-obesity effect of coconut oil is clear in all of the animal studies, and in my friends who eat it regularly.’
nutiva's approach preserves as much of the oil's natural color, flavor and aroma, giving you the best results for any use.
the idea that some fats may actually help you loose weight  however, is a little further-fetched, and yet it appears this seeming paradox  is indeed the case.
it’s also a natural moisturizer, so it won’t cause  dryness or irritation.
and, no, you won’t gain weight,  get heart conditions, or any other fat-fearing thing.
how do we feel our best?
about contact select category chia coconut manna coconut oil community events fair trade from the founder – john roulac gmo green  energy green living hair and skin beauty health healthy fats hemp hemp foods  hemp history hemp legalization homepage
below is a nice overview on 12 ways to use virgin coconut oil.
twelve creative ways to use coconut oil while millions of americans are discovering the many benefits of using organic coconut oil, their are dozens of other great uses for coconut oil.
eat fat – lose weight!!
it is also important on this plan to eat lots of fresh fruits and vegetables, organic whenever possible, and to eliminate the junk fats and foods from your diet.
detoxification – there are many methods for  detoxifying the body, but coconut oil is unique because it can provide energy  while cleansing the body.
this is healthy, good, and important for your body!
natural cold-pressed oils such as nut, seed, olive and fish oils, contain healthy essential fatty acids, monounsaturated fats, nutrients and phytochemicals that serve the body.
insulin inhibits the enzyme lipase which breaks down fat for use as energy and activates an enzyme that converts carbohydrate into fat.
it may also prevent scarring.
make-up remover – coconut oil is a very effective  make-up remover, so you can toss out all the chemical-laden products from the  drug store.
it’s also a natural moisturizer, so it won’t cause dryness or irritation.
it houses lauric acid, an antimicrobial fatty acid that fights bacteria, viruses and fungi.
skin conditions – since coconut oil is moisturizing, antimicrobial, antifungal and anti-inflammatory, it’s a great natural remedy for all kinds of skin problems ranging from eczema to acne to diaper rash.
perhaps most of all, i love coconut oil.
this information in no way new news; the article was originally written in 2006, but now, in 2009 many people still do not understand the important role healthy fats play in a balanced diet.
how do we feel our  best?
coconut oil has a plethora of noted health benefits.
hair conditioner – apply a thin layer of coconut oil  to your scalp and hair.
in the 1940’s farmers discovered that attempts to fatten up their animals with coconut oil produced the opposite effect; they became leaner and more active.
with just a few simple additions to your cooking methods and daily diet, you can start eating more healthily while enjoying every last bite.
coconut oil can quite literally be called a  low-fat fat.’
coconut oil is also supremely healthy; a saturated fat structurally  different from animal saturated fats containing medium-chain as opposed to  long-chain fatty acids.
this strawberry protein shake also adheres  to the nutiva  3-2-2-1 program… » cranberry orange muffins recipe give this delectable coconut oil  cranberry orange muffin recipe a try and wow all of your friends!
cuts and scrapes – coconut oil can be used as a topical cream for common cuts and scrapes, protecting against infection while conditioning the skin to heal faster.
dr. weston a price, the darwin of nutrition writes: ‘replacing the  fats you now eat with coconut oil may be the wisest decision you can make to  lose excess body fat…yes, there is a dietary fat that can actually help  you take off unwanted pounds.
try unrefined coconut oil for better taste and better health
raymond peat md, author of coconut oil and its virtues concludes,  ‘the anti-obesity effect of coconut oil is clear in all of the animal  studies, and in my friends who eat it regularly.’
certainly, genes play their part in overall health as well as our environment but making the most of what we are given can be influenced greatly by what we choose to eat and the activities we engage in.
this is an effective yet gentle method, suitable for  young children or babies with cradle cap, too.
allow it to soak for several minutes and then wash as  usual.
one popular method is to take 1-2 tablespoon of coconut oil seven times per day for one to seven days to cleanse the body from toxins, impurities and candida.
she recently made a youtube video to  address her viewers’ frequently asked questions about her lifestyle and  how it affects her well being.
they place no strain on the digestive system and their availability for metabolism means they are not likely to be stored as fat (unlike high-calorie cholesterol-heavy long-chain animal fats).
looking for coconut butter or coconut cream?
from natural news newsletter: (naturalnews) in the past several years, coconut oil has become a sort of  rising star in the world of health food.
and, no, you won’t gain weight, get heart conditions, or any other fat-fearing thing.
in a tribute to kandee and her fans, nutiva has decided to extend our hempshake sale on our website at www.nutiva.com until june 1st.
this testimonial comes to us from a happy customer in florida great for mind, body, skin and dogs!
many people are becoming more aware of the importance of eating well and leading a healthy lifestyle, but aren't sure exactly how to incorporate this into their own routine.
omega-3 oil is another virtuous fat that can actually speed up the burning  of fats in the body and hence aid weight loss.
her making love in the kitchen video series will bring you tips on how to prepare healthful, nutritious goodness from whole foods.
in the 1940’s farmers discovered that attempts to fatten up their  animals with coconut oil produced the opposite effect; they became leaner and  more active.
omega-3 oil is found in cold-water fish such as sardines, salmon, herring and mackerel as well as plant sources such as flax seeds (the richest plant source), walnuts, pumpkin seeds, mustard seeds, green-leafed vegetables and spirulina.
kandee johnson, a young, well known youtube make up artist, with a flair for creating amazing looks, looks amazing herself, and she attributes this in part to her diet and workout routine.
one of the main reasons omega 3 oil increases fat metabolism is because of  its effects on insulin, significantly reducing it’s levels in the body.
in it we recommend switching out unhealthy fats in your diet for coconut oil and hemp oil and using our other hempseed products; the shelled hempseeds, hemp protein powder, and hempshakes.
every family should use this product  (nutiva has the best,  best, best coconut oil).
hydrogenated fats as found in chocolates, baked products and margarines are even worse and contain trans fats, the most harmful fats of all.
here is her video mentioning the nutiva hempshake products: by meghan telpner see original article on www.meghantelpnerblog.com
from natural news newsletter: (naturalnews) in the past several years, coconut oil has become a sort of rising star in the world of health food.
there is no need to use other conditioners with this method, even after  washing with shampoo.
allow it to soak for several minutes and then wash as usual.
dandruff – several times per week, coat your  fingertips with coconut oil and massage it into your scalp for an  easy dandruff cure.
previous entries 2012 © - nutiva all rights reserved | design and development by foleypod looking for a way to eat right without giving up flavor?
it has also been found to  benefit conditions such as diabetes, chronic fatigue and fibromyalgia,  digestive disorders and thyroid imbalances.
these molecules are small enough to be absorbed directly into the liver and used as an immediate source of energy by the body.
the notion of ‘healthy fats’ is becoming increasingly acknowledged.
deodorant – you can use coconut oil by itself as  a deodorant that leaves underarms feeling silky soft, or you can add  baking soda and cornstarch for advanced odor protection.
there is no need to use other conditioners with this method, even after washing with shampoo.
consider also the fact that pacific islanders long used coconut as a staple of their diets.
deodorant – you can use coconut oil by itself as a deodorant that leaves underarms feeling silky soft, or you can add baking soda and cornstarch for advanced odor protection.
it also doesn't mean that you have to compromise on taste or texture.
if you need a moisturizer for your lips, try coconut oil in a commercial lip balm container.
but coconut oil is more  than a healthy cooking alternative.
ironically, with the demand for leaner meat today, they are now using coconut oil for this exact purpose.
more and more homes have a jar of organic extra virgin coconut oil on their pantry shelf.