the question for us milk drinkers is of course: when does a change cause a nutritional problem?
during this  process, the milkfat is not exposed to air as the process is done in an air  tight system containing only milk.
i’d love to see more of you!
dr. john partridge is a dairy food extension specialist, and he had this to say about concerns about oxidation of homogenized milk: homogenization is done by forcing milk through a small geometry valve at very high pressures (1500-2500 psi).
i’ve even seen it listed as one of thetop three causes of heart disease, along with trans fats and chlorinated water.1 however, even mary enig, co-author of nourishing traditions and author of eat fat, lose fat disagrees with oster’s findings.
[reply to this comment] katie reply: september 9th, 2011 at 1:05 am shauna, might you have the link?
i don’t love the idea of homogenization, but sometimes i need to rely on store milk for yogurt.
can i make yogurt with powdered milk?
but there is more to life than food, and there are a lot of other things i should be focusing my worry energy on than worrying about the kind of milk
jul 7, 2010 at 11:18 am thank you for this sincere and informative article!
i’d like to be able to afford, but can’t justify or for which i cannot find sources.
in doing this the  fat globule membrane is broken and the surface area of the new fat globules is  much larger than the native globules.
somewhere in the beginning of all that, i remember reading something about formaldehyde in powdered milk.
i’ve been a professor at 2 dental schools and a student at 1 and this statement would be considered completely crazy.
jul 8, 2010 at 12:02 am hey katie, i wanted to let you and your readers know that my post on this just went live – it’s a follow-up to your post here and has info that i’ve been gathering via email recently.
the only way that milk will spoil faster after homogenization is if the  homogenizing system is not properly cleaned and sanitized.
for you were bought at a price; therefore glorify god in your body[a] and in your spirit, which are god’s.”
it isn’t even a matter of philosophy or opinion.
this  is not a man who drinks milk without consciousness.
mary enig says so here, and i also spoke with a professor in the department  of food science & human nutrition and department of animal science at my  favorite agricultural college, michigan state university.
the reason for the scare about powdered milk being added to skim and lowfat  milk isthis: a note on the production of skim milk powder: liquid milk is forced through  a tiny hole at high pressure, and then blown out into the air.
i’m a dental professor and read this article about dentistry: http://www.westonaprice.org/dentistry/1957-root-canal-dangers.html
basically, although i don’t seek out powdered milk, i’m trying not to be as afraid of it.
meagan´s last blog ..
mar 2, 2011 at 5:26 pm i liked this post.
she says: in essence, oster’s theory replaces cholesterol as the cause of heart  disease with another mechanism, summarized as follows: homogenization causes a supposedly “noxious” enzyme called  xanthine oxidase to be encapsulated in a liposome that can be absorbed intact.
feb 12, 2012 at 8:49 pm perhaps people choose to believe the scientific studies that aren’t backed by the companies that stand to benefit financially from the results of the study.
save up for grassfed beef by using your online coupons for healthy store purchases.
translation: the fats damaged by homogenization can be passed through the  walls of the digestive system directly into the circulatory system, where they  “scratch” the artery walls, making a problem area to which  cholesterol flocks (cholesterol is like the ambulance or mechanic in your  circulatory system, repairing issues in the arteries).this forms plaque  and causes heart disease, and it’s all because the fat globules got too  small.
[reply to this comment]reply babychaser //
[reply to this comment]reply becky //
[reply to this comment]reply
sep 6, 2011 at 10:16 pm just read a news article on msn stating these exact things… hooray!!
so when you drink reduced-fat milk  thinking that it will help you avoid heart disease, you are actually consuming  oxidized cholesterol, which initiates the process of heart disease.
according to the report, these things can be added to milk, without any mention being made on the product labeling.
i currently live in eastern europe and the only kind of milk i can get is uht.
this post is an important update to that one!
i’m the type of person who calls companies to ask questions (in case  you haven’t already noticed that).
it isn’t even something that is controversial.
of course, i haven't verified it either.
how do you know if god intended one thing or another?
lenetta @ nettacow´s last blog ..
feb 4, 2011 at 6:29 pm hi katie, i got here via the “fear” blog, today (2/4) and wanted to let any one who buy’s kroger brand milk that their whole milk contains dried powdered milk; isn’t that weird?
just thought you might like all the information available!
but i’m so curious to read it!
to this end, i would have you read thefollowing review  article.
tomorrow i’ll tell you a bit about how i came to the decision to  drink raw milk.
from bareman’s, a local michigan dairy: non-fat dried milk (skim milk powder)  is not currently added to our,  or any of our direct competitors lowfat or fat free milks (skim milk) and, any direct addition of a dried milk powder would require it to be  included on the label to meet current united states labeling requirements.
[reply to this comment]reply meagan //
what i see are a [...]
however, i think pasteurizing is important and that the dangers and outbreaks are completely ignored by the raw milk community.
some say that pasteurization already kills too many healthy enzymes; see more on thedifferent kinds of milk pasteurization in yesterday’s post.
food production should be a livelihood, not an publicly traded “for profit” industry.
i don’t remember if it said it was used in making it or if it was that there was some in it… long story short, i haven’t been able to find anything about it since and i can’t remember exactly what it said.
milkfat is made up of 98%  triglycerides, which are extremely stable to changes during processing.
you can also follow me on twitter, get ks  for kindle, or see my facebook fan page.
→ the real story of homogenized milk, powdered milk, skim milk and oxidized  cholesterol june 23rd, 2010  · 71 comments · science of nutrition welcome!
but go ahead and be scared.
see my full disclosure statement here.
we just use less of it, but that helps us save money for more fruits and vegetables.
dr. k.  oster proposed a theory in 1971 that xanthine oxidase released from the milk  fat globule membrane during homogenization was a contributor to  atherosclerosis.
the addition of the protein to the surface of the fat globules  and the reduction in the size of the globules results in the reduction in the  ability of the globules to float to the top of the milk.
mary enig says so here, and i also spoke with a professor in the department of food science & human nutrition and department of animal science at my favorite agricultural college, michigan state university.
i have some distrust in it,  because it is quite a man-made process, so when i can stick to the natural, i  will.
there’s a theory out there, propagated by kurt oster, that says that the process of breaking the fat globules into such small pieces that they remain suspended in the milk, homogenization, isa leading cause of arteriosclerosis and heart disease.
the question for us milk drinkers is of course: when does a change cause a  nutritional problem?
start here for my top 10 baby  steps to better kitchen stewardship.
apr 16, 2011 at 5:37 pm i too had some issues with false/misleading information from the wapf.
my point is i don’t think god minds that much about what we take into our bodies (oooooh isn’t that a verse???)
meanwhile, there is no reason to avoid powdered milk if you like it.
a few minutes before reading this post, i happened upon a usda report from august 2003, which described the routine addition of nonfat dry milk and condensed skim milk to nonfat, low-fat, and reduced fat milk products.
will the -ations ever  end?
i’m glad to see you asking questions, not just of the milk producers but those at the wapf and the nourishing traditions book.
[reply to this comment]reply meggan //
based on what i have read here and on other sites, uht milk is not that great, safe or healthy correct?
the original fat  globule membrane is lost and a new one is formed that incorporates a much  greater portion of casein and whey proteins.
i’ve seen this claim in multiple  other places as well, but it’s incredibly outdated and plain wrong.
here is a a conversation with an animal science trained former farm gal on  oxidized cholesterol with her convincing arguments.
eventually, pressure from industry, regulators and  nutritionists prevailed and all states who had “solids  fortification” requirements in their dairy laws repealed them.
[reply to this comment]reply drinking full fat, whole milk | lovelivegrow //
xo is released by enzymatic action and ends up in heart and arterial tissue where it causes the destruction of a specialized protective membrane lipid called plasmalogen, causing lesions in the arteries and resulting in the development of plaque.
however, it does not contain bovine growth hormone, which is good news!
its just not worth it to me.
we either evolved by thriving on the foods that are on this planet or god put the right foods on the planet to nourish humans.
can you suggest any alternatives?
i would like to see the wapf update their position on this issue, as their  information clearly was correct decades ago but is sorely outdated.
is homogenized milk dangerous?
i figured that even if homogenization isn’t as bad as it’s  being made out to be, i can still get the fat to be organic, which helps my  family avoid most of the potential toxins and hormones, which tend to collect  in the fat.
research will continue on this controversial topic.
i’ve been avoiding it for a number of years, but not for any of the reasons you mentioned here.
since our digestion doesn’t seem to mind what we can afford, we try to do what we can with our grains, beans and other foods with soaking, and grinding our own grain and beans.
i’m coming to feel that they aren’t necessarily a reputable resource.
his word certainly supports taking good care of our bodies and that would include what goes into it.
[reply to this comment]reply world_runner //
(it also is not organic, of course!)
here's a blog which refutes the whole story.
nov 23, 2011 at 10:39 pm where i live, in canada, it’s illegal for farms to sell raw milk.
another factor that may be thrown out is the xanthine oxidase.
if you missed the last monday mission, click here.
kelly the kitchen kop´s last blog ..
jul 18, 2011 at 8:54 am i have been reading your posts on yogurt and milk, especially in regards to uht milk.
the facts around the scary dry milk are these, no one knows.
i do like to have all the information, for sure.
[reply to this comment]reply vegetable garden cook // may 18, 2011 at 10:59 pm interesting take on the homogenization issue.
once i decided there was no inherent problem  drinking skim milk, other than the fact that it’s missing the fat, i  began making myyogurt with skim milk and added cream from our grassfed raw  milk.
i joined the crowd warning of the health dangers of homogenized milk when i talkeddairy fats in the fall.
here are some organicspices and herbs and green tea to round out the menu.
1 corinthians 6:19-20 states, “19 or do you not know that your body is the temple of the holy spirit who is in you, whom you have from god, and you are not your own?
finally, the truth is beginning to come out!
maybe i shouldn’t be so “afraid” of it either?
kitchen stewardship is dedicated to balancing god’s gifts of  time, health, earth and money.
i believe it’s quite arrogant of humans to believe they can engineer food better than either god or evolution.
during homogenization there is a  tremendous increase in surface area on the fat globules.
i was intrigued by what you may have to say about powdered milk.
the danger comes when we industrialize food and eat what multi-national corporations wants us too for their profit.
thank you for your dedication to this cause.
budgets concerns are a good justification for using powdered and homogenized milk.
i can’t see much purpose in homogenizing, so i would prefer to drink my own goat milk, which is of course not homogenized.
if you wish you couldeat more whole foods without breaking  your budget, you're in the right place.
i’d like to see more research on the homogenization health effects, actually.
tags: homogenization·milk·oxidized  cholesterol·pasteurization
even though the science behind powdered milk says it’s more or less okay to consume…i’m still very wary of it, if not “scared.”
this isn’t what dentists are taught.
industry doesn’t care if you die slowly while they have huge profits and great wall street returns.
this causes a  lot of nitrates to form and the cholesterol in the milk is  oxidized…  oxidized cholesterol contributes to the buildup of  plaque in the arteries, to atherosclerosis.
[reply to this comment]reply shauna //
i teach students how to extract teeth and i’d be sued if i was teaching them to leave the ligament.
[reply to this comment] katie reply: september 9th, 2011 at 12:54 am thank you – i’m off to search for that one right now!
fyi — powdered milk actually has very low levels of oxidized cholesterol.
thank you for a balanced post.
when i realized that the claim of  “industry standard” might be incorrect, i decided to call a few  brands that sell milk to see what i could find out.
simply put, when i use homogenized cream i have leg cramps and swelling of my feet.
now i want to just go right to the plant, you know?
katie ps – there wasn’t a link included.
you might also be interested in  family-friendly, delicious and nutritiousrecipes or one of my popular ebooks to  help you on your journey.
[reply to this comment] katie reply: june 9th, 2011 at 10:22 pm sam, excellent personal testimony; thank you!
how to dehydrate fruits how to dehydrate vegetables  – excalibur week!
i won’t, however, pay double price for unhomogenized milk unless  there are other upgraded benefits from the store milk!
dr. john partridge is  a dairy food extension specialist, and he had this to say about concerns about  oxidation of homogenized milk: homogenization is done by forcing milk through a small geometry valve at  very high pressures (1500-2500 psi).
it is a good source of protein and calcium and hardly any fat or cholesterol — oxidized or unoxidized.
natural cures “they” don’t want you to know about by  kevin trudeau photo from flickr.com i’m entered in fight back fridays, a round-up of fabulous foodie  posts from around the blogosphere.
here’s the hole in that argument: nonfat dry milk has little  to no cholesterolto begin with, so consuming any  “oxidized” cholesterol that may or may not be present there is  probably no more hazardous to your health than eating an apple that is starting  to brown (that process is oxidation, too).
i totally can’t find it
sign up for a free email  subscription or grab my reader feed.
sign up for free email updates: enter your email address: milk has been through a lot in the past 100 years.
the effect of this treatment is to  break the natural fat globule (average size ~10 micrometers) into  much  smaller fat globules (average size <2 micrometers).
(see thismilk  descriptions post for what all the terms on the jugs mean.)
she says: in essence, oster’s theory replaces cholesterol as the cause of heart disease with another mechanism, summarized as follows: homogenization causes a supposedly “noxious” enzyme called xanthine oxidase to be encapsulated in a liposome that can be absorbed intact.
also, raw milk is illegal to sell and buy in my country.
dec 7, 2010 at 9:53 pm ok… so i know that it’s been awhile since you wrote this, but i followed your link from the irish creme post.
i don’t need a researcher to tell me what’s going on here, the evidence is in my body’s reaction.
the article states that “dentists are generally taught to remove a tooth and leave the periodontal ligament in the socket, a procedure which would be like delivering a baby and leaving the placenta in the uterus.”
when i use raw cream i do not.
© 2009–2011 kitchen stewardship, llc — cutline by chris pearson
dr. mary enig finishes with this, although i’d like to see more  foundation for her claims: the fact that oster’s theory has been disproven does not mean that  the homogenization process is benign.
within the first 10-20 seconds after homogenization, proteins and segments  of the original membrane form a new membrane on the surface of the smaller fat  globules.
there is not much if any support for this theory but a lot of people are  still using it to scare customers into paying higher prices for cream-line milk.
from meijer: i had not heard of that being an industry standard, and i can tell you that none of meijer’s dairy suppliers add anything to the milk.
enter your email address: milk has been through a lot in the past 100 years.
[reply to this comment]reply danae //
this statement is just wrong.
i am a christian, and have to admit that there are hundreds of things god never intended us to do: use computers, drive cars, fly in airplanes, eat food you didn’t produce yourselves, watch tv or listen to the radio, read mass produced books, or any book etc other than the bible (which is my most read book (and don’t you hate how bible is no longer capitalized?).
perhaps people learned that if there’s a profit to be made, the study is probably biased.
[reply to this comment]reply skim milk - mind and muscle forum //
i had been making my yogurt with store whole milk since coming around to  the idea offull fat dairy.
will the -ations ever end?
jul 2, 2010 at 9:19 am after reading this article i am quite confuzed about where you stand on this issue.
i buy whole if i don’t have enough cream to add to skim.
if you feel called to such a mission, read  more atmission, method, and mary and martha moments.
so you see, the jury is still out on this subject.
[reply to this comment]reply bob // feb 9, 2012 at 1:09 pm funny how so many want or have trouble believing the scientists, and yet all the scare stories about homogenizing and drying milk come from scientists.
with all that under my belt, i’m much less afraid of  homogenized milk than i used to be.
xo is released by enzymatic action and ends up in heart and arterial tissue  where it causes the destruction of a specialized protective membrane lipid  called plasmalogen, causing lesions in the arteries and resulting in the  development of plaque.
real food wednesday 7-7-10 =-.
just curious what you would suggest.
in the 1950′s and 60′s many states required nonfat dried  milk to be added to lowfat (<1% butterfat) and fat free milks (skim) under  the guise of making it a nutritionally superior product to the unfortified  product but, in reality its real purpose was to help support a higher demand  for non-fat milk powder and ultimately a higher total milk price for the  producer.
have you heard anything about formaldehyde and powdered milk?
jun 5, 2011 at 5:26 pm my personal experience with homogenized vs raw milk and cream is simple and enough to justify never putting homogenized/pasteurized dairy in my body.
perhaps some to choose to err on the side of caution when “the jury is still out”.
perhaps those that avoid man made foods are not scared in the sense your reply suggests.
may 28, 2011 at 9:49 pm [...] decades ago.
dec 13, 2010 at 8:53 am [...] other sources offer up some counter-claims, such [...]
does skim milk contain powdered dry milk?
the real story of homogenized milk, powdered milk, skim milk and oxidized cholesterol | kitchen stew… it seems that the main proponent of the idea is the weston a. price foundation.
first it was subjected to pasteurization, then homogenization, then oxidation.
dr. partridge drinks homogenized store milk himself, although he said he  has to take the jugs from the back to avoid the “light oxidized flavor  that is prevalent in milk stored under direct fluorescent lighting.”
[reply to this comment]reply name website notify me of followup comments via e-mail click to cancel replyclick to cancel reply a new challenge: click here to see all my favorite online products, and here for my spill-the-beans post about how blogging and money-making work.
the information mentioned is on page 25 of the report, available at this link: [reply to this comment] katie reply: july 7th, 2010 at 11:54 pm danae, thank you for sharing that!
[reply to this comment]reply k. wilde //
no one today advocates leaving the periodontal ligament in the socket and it is certainly not what “dentists are generally taught”.
it takes the fear out of trying to do your best in within the constraints you are given.
the real facts are these: the body produces oxidized cholesterol, and there is even some research that shows some beneficial properties of oxidized cholesterol.
there’s a theory out there, propagated by kurt oster, that says that  the process of breaking the fat globules into such small pieces that they  remain suspended in the milk, homogenization, isa leading cause of  arteriosclerosis and heart disease.
[reply to this comment] katie reply: july 5th, 2010 at 8:30 am meagan, sorry about that!
i’m not afraid of skim milk anymore; in fact, i purchase it and add cream to make yogurt, which i wouldn’t have done had i thought it was laden with oxidized cholesterol.
weekly link roundup – again edition =-.
thanks for sharing all your hard earned knowledge with us!
the weston a. price foundation says, “all reduced-fat milks  have dried skim milk added to give them body, although this ingredient  is not usually on the labels.”
i have a few other posts on milk that get into what i drink http://www.kitchenstewardship.com/2010/06/24/why-i-choose-raw-milk/ and other milk terminology http://www.kitchenstewardship.com/2010/06/22/what-kind-of-milk-should-i-buy/ that might help you.
i’m a budding real foodie and have only been on this track these past 4 years.
i’m just not scared of skim milk anymore because it doesn’t have dry milk in it!
i’m not against large corporations, starbucks treats the people they buy from, their employees and customers with respect., but they are the unusual case and not the norm.
this may account for the increased  allergenicity of modern processed milk.
i agree that god’s wisdom is higher than our own, and his ideas on food are the best!
[reply to this comment]reply kelly the kitchen kop //
translation: the fats damaged by homogenization can be passed through the walls of the digestive system directly into the circulatory system, where they “scratch” the artery walls, making a problem area to which cholesterol flocks (cholesterol is like the ambulance or mechanic in your circulatory system, repairing issues in the arteries).this forms plaque and causes heart disease, and it’s all because the fat globules got too small.
blessings, babychaser [reply to this comment] katie reply: december 10th, 2010 at 6:19 pm babychaser, that is one i haven’t heard, but sheesh, you never know.
thanks for your research!
the effect of this treatment is to break the natural fat globule (average size ~10 micrometers) into much smaller fat globules (average size ) .-=
yes, i do hate that bible is rarely capitalized.
first it was subjected  to pasteurization, then homogenization, then oxidation.
i do not doubt the honesty of your meyer or the local dairy you mentioned, but this recent (7 years ago, not from the 50′s) report does indicate that these additions are a routine practice in federally regulated milk processing plants.
here in canada, antibiotics and growth hormones are not allowed to be used in the milk.
i joined the crowd warning of the health dangers of homogenized milk when i  talkeddairy fats in the fall.
except that this isn’t true.
i’ve even seen it listed as  one of thetop three causes of heart disease, along with trans fats and  chlorinated water.1 however, even mary enig, co-author of nourishing traditions and author of  eat fat, lose fat disagrees with oster’s findings.
some say that pasteurization already kills too many healthy enzymes; see  more on thedifferent kinds of milk pasteurization in yesterday’s post.
(it’s right on the label.)
does powdered dry milk contain oxidized cholesterol?
i drink cream in my milk.