a part of the new york times company.
for example, a recipe that calls for processed foods like luncheon meats, processed cheese-products or high fat products like mayonnaise isn't healthy and should not become a recipe you use very often.
for example, a  recipe that calls for processed foods like luncheon meats, processed  cheese-products or high fat products like mayonnaise isn't healthy and should  not become a recipe you use very often.
for example,wild rice with cranberries and apples is a great healthy dish with a great balance of whole grains, nuts, and fruit.
alex -- about.com user answer: when i am researching  recipes, there are three main characteristics i look for: the inclusion of healthy ingredients the exclusion of unhealthy ingredients the cooking method here is what you should look for when  evaluating a recipe.
on the flip side, the spaghetti sauce itself is very healthy with lots of tomatoes that give us vitamins and lycopene.
microwaving is a great way to cook vegetables because it is quick so not many nutrients are lost.
meats and poultry should be lean whenever possible, and low fat dairy products are good too.
sign up discuss in my forum how can i tell if a recipe is healthy?
by shereen jegtvig, about.com guide updated october 11, 2011 about.com health's disease and condition content is reviewed by our medical review board see more about: - finding healthy foods - calories in vegetables - cooking healthy foods question: how can i tell if a recipe is healthy?
a french-fried potato is not so healthy.
avoid unhealthy ingredients or find healthier substitutes.
leave out unhealthy ingredientsunhealthy ingredients include sugar, processed foods, saturated andtrans fat, white refined flour, and products made with refined white flour.
like i know i need to eat more vegetables, but what if i cook them in such a way they're not good for me anymore?
by shereen jegtvig, about.com guide updated october 11, 2011 about.com health's disease and condition content is reviewed by our medical  review board see more about: calories in vegetables cooking healthy foods question: how can i tell  if a recipe is healthy?
here are a couple examples of recipes prepared with different methods.
choose recipes that let you bake, roast, microwave or saute your foods.
i like recipes that include several healthy ingredients, rather than just one or two.
for example,wild  rice with cranberries and apples is a great healthy dish with a great  balance of whole grains, nuts, and fruit.
a  medium sizedbaked potato only has about 100 calories and is a healthy food when  cooked in this manner.
evaluating a recipe can be easy.
baking a chicken breast in the oven with some salsa or  chicken broth is a healthy way to prepare the chicken.
- hydration calculator - what are anti-inflammatory foods?
make your meatballs from ground turkey meat and use a whole grain pasta, or decrease the serving size and add a big salad on the side.
sign up - nutrition - eat right - weight management - diet and health
and i have lots of recipe books, but i'm not sure which recipes are good for a healthy diet.
if you  like french fries, try slicing the potato into strips and lightly coat the  strips with olive oil.
if you like french fries, try slicing the potato into strips and lightly coat the strips with olive oil.
by category - finding healthy foods - calories in vegetables - cooking healthy foods - what's in your food - nutrition for ages and stages - nutrition and weight loss - nutrition and health issues - shopping and meal planning - cooking and food safety - dietary supplements - questions and answers - share your stories and tips - test your nutrition knowledge nutrition - about.com - health - nutrition - shopping and meal planning - meal planning - how to tell when a recipe is healthy also from about.com: - most popular - latest articles - rss - calorie count - nutrition database - advertise on about.com - our story - news & events - work at about - sitemap - all topics - reprints - help - write for about - user agreement - ethics policy - patent info.
is your diet healthy?
spaghetti and meatballs  seems like a healthy meal, but a large portion of the meal is pasta made from  refined white flour and the meatballs may have a lot ofsaturated fat in them.
deep-frying is probably the least healthy of the cooking methods, especially if  the oil is used more than once.
leave out unhealthy ingredients unhealthy ingredients include sugar,  processed foods, saturated andtrans fat, white refined flour, and products made  with refined white flour.
i like recipes that include  several healthy ingredients, rather than just one or two.
garlic, peppers, herbs seasonings  and mushrooms are healthy ingredients you might find in a spaghetti recipe.
baking a chicken breast in the oven with some salsa or chicken broth is a healthy way to prepare the chicken.
the fat used to  deep-fry the potato is not healthy, and the potato absorbs a lot of oil, so the  same size potato that is french fried has many more calories and fat.
pork with cabbage and apples is  another example of a great recipe with several healthy ingredients.
reader stories: how i motivate myself to eat healthier read stories  (11) share your story healthy recipes
garlic, peppers, herbs seasonings and mushrooms are healthy ingredients you might find in a spaghetti recipe.
choose recipes that let you bake, roast, microwave or  saute your foods.
serve this with a lean chicken breast  for an incredibly tasty and healthy meal.
pan frying might be a little better, but still not so good if you use a lot of oil and batters on your foods that absorb a lot of oil.
- about.com - health - nutrition nutrition search free nutrition newsletter!
always look for healthy ingredients.
the inclusion of healthy ingredients - the exclusion of unhealthy ingredients - the cooking method healthy ingredientsthe best ingredients are whole fresh or frozen fruits and vegetables, healthy oils like olive oil, walnut oil, grape seed oil, and rice bran oil.
another example of good verses bad cooking methods would be this example  with a chicken breast.
cooking methodsthe cooking method used in a recipe is very important.
nuts, legumes and soy are healthy ingredients, and so are  whole grain breads, and pastas.
the fat used to deep-fry the potato is not healthy, and the potato absorbs a lot of oil, so the same size potato that is french fried has many more calories and fat.
nuts, legumes and soy are healthy ingredients, and so are whole grain breads, and pastas.
deep-frying is probably the least healthy of the cooking methods, especially if the oil is used more than once.
reader stories: how i motivate myself to eat healthier read stories (11) share your story healthy recipes related articles - how to cook asparagus - baked cod provencal - asparagus avocado melange - healthy-up your recipes - pregnancy nutrition - how to deconstruct a chinese recipe - cooking chinese food - additive ideas - soapmaking - meal planning 101 - cooking in college - cool cucumber salad dressing - raw food recipes shereen jegtvig nutrition guide - sign up for my newsletter related searches whole grain breads rice bran oil grape seed oil refined flour spaghetti recipe
cooking methods the cooking method used in a recipe is very important.
discuss in my forum how can i tell if a recipe is healthy?
sometimes evaluating a recipe is more difficult.
if you take that same  chicken breast, coat it with a batter and deep fry it, that piece of chicken  becomes an unhealthy, fattening food.
sauteing in a bit of olive oil orcanola oil is better, and roasting in an oven is better yet.
potatoes are a nice source of vitamin c and fiber if you leave on the skins.
avoid unhealthy ingredients or find  healthier substitutes.
another example of good verses bad cooking methods would be this example with a chicken breast.
spaghetti and meatballs seems like a healthy meal, but a large portion of the meal is pasta made from refined white flour and the meatballs may have a lot ofsaturated fat in them.
bake them on a baking sheet until they are tender.
we comply with the honcode standard for trustworthy health information: verify here.
- privacy policy - your ad choices ©2012 about.com.
see more about: - water calculator - how much water to drink a day - women's caloric intake calculator - men's daily caloric need - calorie calculators - how do i gain weight?
healthy ingredients the best ingredients are whole fresh or frozen  fruits and vegetables, healthy oils like olive oil, walnut oil, grape seed oil,  and rice bran oil.
microwaving is a great way to cook vegetables because it is quick so not  many nutrients are lost.
and i have lots of recipe books, but  i'm not sure which recipes are good for a healthy diet.
make  your meatballs from ground turkey meat and use a whole grain pasta, or decrease  the serving size and add a big salad on the side.
pan frying might be a little better, but still  not so good if you use a lot of oil and batters on your foods that absorb a lot  of oil.
a medium sizedbaked potato only has about 100 calories and is a healthy food when cooked in this manner.
if you take that same chicken breast, coat it with a batter and deep fry it, that piece of chicken becomes an unhealthy, fattening food.
boiling vegetables will not add any extra calories, but  you will loose some of the valuable nutrients when you drain off the cooking  water.
meats and poultry should be lean whenever  possible, and low fat dairy products are good too.
like i know i need to  eat more vegetables, but what if i cook them in such a way they're not good for  me anymore?
serve this with a lean chicken breast for an incredibly tasty and healthy meal.
free nutrition newsletter!
sauteing in a bit of olive oil orcanola oil is better, and roasting in  an oven is better yet.
luncheon meats explore nutrition must reads most popular - how to lose weight - calculate your calorie need - good nutrition:
pork with cabbage and apples is another example of a great recipe with several healthy ingredients.
boiling vegetables will not add any extra calories, but you will loose some of the valuable nutrients when you drain off the cooking water.
alex -- about.com user answer: when i am researching recipes, there are three main characteristics i look for: here is what you should look for when evaluating a recipe.
when you find a recipe that confuses you, just alter the recipe a bit.