i don’t think wheat it is killing the world.
some of us don’t do well with gluten or a lot of sugar and grains and for a lot of us it is because our bodies need to heal.
i made a few changes to her recipe to make them gluten free, so you can feel free to do them either way, depending on your dietary needs.
preheat oven to 325 f simmer chopped dates in water for about 10 minutes.
the best is that most of you probably have all the ingredients already available in your freezer or pantry!
to my good fortune, this has all recently changed!
so if i want to eat like my ancestors, dairy is going to be a cornerstone of that diet.
maybe in time we will be able to have those things again as part of a balanced diet.
this recipe is kitty approved!
in a pinch, go for cabot – found in groceries all over the country!
you get the gist…so although i will post my awesome pumpkin smoothie with options and add ins, i will also give you ideas for entirely different smoothie recipes.
stir yogurt and garlic together and spread on serving plate.
place fried egg on yogurt and drizzle with butter mixture.
i know some are less enamored with the dry, crumbly texture but when using great quality butter, the key ingredient; it brings this scottish specialty to a new level.
making this a quick and easy dish to prepare in a snap!
the world of real food has become a very confusing environment lately.
many times puddings are served with a topping of thin custard, like crème anglaise.
1 large onion, thinly sliced 14 oz can of chopped tomatoes 2/3 cup of dry red wine 1 garlic clove, crushed 1 rosemary sprig finely chopped 4 oz. fresh field mushrooms (or portabellos), thinly sliced salt and pepper to taste method:
melt butter with the milk in a small pan over low heat.
they couldn’t believe there were beans in them for one, but were equally surprised to find out there are no gluten or grains either!
process on medium speed until well mixed, then start adding ice, a handful at a time, gradually, until the smoothie is at your desired consistency.
i think we should give this one to the scots.
sorry but that isn’t butter anymore, it is a chem lab.
i usually turn up the speed to high during the ice process.
our world is so toxic these days from chemicals, pesticides, gmos, additives, preservatives, pollution, etc.
in fact, the recipe i used to make this version of hunter’s chicken, is from one of my favorite cookbooks –scottish traditional recipes: a celebration of the food and cooking of scotland.
this is mix and match folks!
2 eggs 2 tbs honey, maple or even molasses ¼ tsp salt 1 tsp baking soda butter for frying method: mix flour and yogurt together
so what about the food?
i started by searching on line for gluten-free recipes.
i want to finish this post on a high note and give a good example of simple, easy to prepare healthy food.
a traditional shortbread is nothing more than sugar, butter and flour- in a one to two to three ratio, respectively.
i think now is a good time to discuss butter, we eat a lot of it in this house (and have very good cholesterol reports and excellent blood pressure), but it is of the highest quality – grassfed, organic, artisanal butter.
ingredients: per smoothie (@ 16 oz) base liquid: 1 cup liquid – kefir, raw milk, coconut milk are good choices thickener: 1 banana – i also like using instead 1/2 avocado nuts: 3 tbs almond butter – you can use any other nut butter or a handful of soaked nuts – i usually use almonds –click here to understand about the benefits of soaking nuts sweetener: 1 tbs 100% pure maple syrup, honey or molasses or 1/8 – ¼ tsp or one or two dried dates (optional) optional add ins: ¼ cup of pumpkin puree, 1/4 yogurt, 1/4 berries, 2 tbs cocoa powder, kale or spinach, dash of cinnamon, 1 shot of espresso or ¼ cup of coffee, 1 tbs coconut oil, raw pastured raised chicken egg (do not use conventional eggs from the grocery store), vanilla extract, powdered ginger, nutmeg, etc. ice method: place all the liquids in your blender first.
personally, i love the super dark, rich look of these brownies.
that said, many times when i post a specific recipe, i get a lot of great comments like:“can i substitute y ingredient for x ingredient?”
add about a tsp of chopped myrtle leaves.
it is virtually the same taste as “normal” shortbread, although a bit nuttier – which just compliments the butter- and gives the shortbread a darker color.
the taste is very hard to place for me, but is most similar to a bay leaf.
your knife may not come out clean, but the top will look crackly like brownies usually do.
½ tsp cinnamon 1 ½ tsp baking soda (if you like your brownies “fudgy” you could experiment by leaving this out)
i am a  huge pumpkin freak and i enjoy it all year long – seems like a lot of you  are too!
perhaps because the scottish and french had a very famous historical alliance, it is likely the scots also learned about the cuisine and culture of the french.
roberto was born in sardinia to sardinian parents, but grew up in rome.
maybe if you are like me, you have been intrigued to try them, but haven’t quite gotten around to making them yet.
and a good substitute for evil corn syrup.
so instead of the more familiar italian “a” and “o” word endings, sardinian words end with “u” and “s”, like our last name, campus.
plus, the original recipe calls for a dairy product which i find interesting!
cut into wedges while still warm.
this is your smoothie recipe – easy to tailor to your tastes and needs.
the diet is rich in meats, like lamb, goat and pork, fresh vegetables, wonderful cheeses, fresh veggies and of course copious amounts of olive oil and rich red wine, famed for its high level of antioxidants-cannonou.
so make a batch for your valentine’s this year.
a picture of the recipe even graces the front cover of the cookbook!
add a handful of spinach or kale.
it is enough to make you completely crazy.
blend sugar and vinegar, stir and pour over the meat.
tags: posted in almonds, avocado, breakfast, chocolate, coconut milk, coffee, dessert, drinks, eggs, figs, fruit, gluten free, grain free, greens, health and wellness, honey, kefir, maple, milk, nourishing foods, nuts, one-pot, real food, recipes,  snack, spices, under one hour, vegetables, vegetarian, yogurt
the possibilities are endless!
i care about where is comes from, how the animal lived or how the plant or grain was grown before it came to my plate.
do i have you attention now?
for my own example sometimes when i talk to people who are paleo about health issues, they seem to immediately assume that because i eat dairy, that is my problem and negate all the other eating habits i follow that are virtually the same as theirs.
(oladyi topped with currants)
clapshot (adapted from scottish traditional recipes ) ingredients: 1 lb of potatoes 1 lb of rutabaga (swede) ¼ cup butter ¼ cup milk or cream 1 tsp freshly grated nutmeg salt and pepper method: peel potatoes and rutabaga, then cut into evenly small chunks.
i am actually no stranger to baking with beans, if you have the the spunky coconut grain-free baked goods and desserts cookbook (and if you don’t i would seriously consider getting it!), kelly bakes a lot with beans, and this cookbook has literally changed my life.
the foods of these small northern european islands are quite good, lots of fresh vegetables, wild game, wonderful sausages and unexpectedly – dessert.
i recommend kerrygold – which can actually be found in most grocery stores (usually in the gourmet cheese section, but ask your store’s customer service for more info).
in a separate bowl whisk dry ingredients together: gf flour mix, almond flour, salt, and baking soda.
and the corresponding facebook page!
add the sliced onion to the pan and cook gently, stirring often for about 3 minutes, then stir in the tomatoes and red wine.
if you don’t like cakey brownies, i think you will still love these, and it will become a go-to recipe for making healthy and delicious chocolate cake.
in the meantime you can make the toffee sauce.
recipe is easily doubled!
there is an area towards the middle of the island that is calledvalle della luna – the valley of the moon and looks just like rohan from the lord of the rings movies.
yes, it is more expensive, but if you spend the extra money, it turns into a virtual health food and you can eat more of it without getting sick!
her recipes are amazing, easy to make and so tasty, they are also “fool proof” if you are new to gluten or grain free baking and trying to learn how in the world you can bake without either of these ingredients, this is a great book!
here are some of my recent combinations: raw milk, pumpkin, 1/2 banana, cinnamon, nutmeg, ginger and a little stevia raw milk, egg, pumpkin puree, almond butter, cinnamon and molasses coconut milk, avocado, cocoa powder, cinnamon, maple kefir, soaked almonds, dried dates/figs, frozen berries, vanilla extract this smoothie recipe is so versatile you can enjoy it for breakfast, a snack, dessert or part of any meal when you need an extra boost.
so if you are gluten-free and want to try a new delicious and simple to prepare dessert, or are already a lover of sticky toffee pudding, you will love this recipe!
i saw tons of pomegranate and fig trees.
i have seen sticky toffee pudding served with both together.
plus, they are so good for you; you can absolutely have them for breakfast with no guilt.
for those of you who have not been bewitched by this amazing treat, i’ll give you a run-down of what it actually is.
sardinia is an interesting place, i immediately loved it because it has a rich culture both with herding animals (sheep and goats) but is also the place in europe which has the greatest amount of megalithic structures, making this farm girl and history buff very happy!
so long as you are paying attention to the rest you are likely much healthier than the majority of the people out there.
they are also good if you make more than you will eat and put the extras in the freezer to have later in the week.
at the same time in a small saucepan or butter warmer melt the other tbs of butter and add herbs and spices.
our ancestors didn’t, why should we?
mash the dry potato and rutabaga mixture, then add the milk mixture.
try stevia, or fruit sweetened smoothies – dried  dates are great for this.
hunter’s chicken (adapted from scottish traditional recipes) ingredients: 2 tbs olive oil 1 tbs butter half a chicken (or 4 chicken portions, like whole legs)
a lot of you may have seen the news that paula deen, known for her butter laden foods has finally come forward being diagnosed with type ii diabetes, many of you are probably not surprised and many of you might think butter is the culprit, or even fat for that matter.
next morning preheat cast iron skillet or pancake grill.
historically, the dish seems to have been made with rabbit, which definitely makes more sense but it seems that even in italy, where the dish originated, chicken is often used.
what it is not, is a pudding in the american sense of the word, but a tender, moist cake- a true pudding in the british sense of the word.
in fact i plan to make them in the very near future as a cake, and use some kind of wonderful real food icing on top.
i am a huge pumpkin freak and i enjoy it all year long – seems like a lot of you are too!
blend until thoroughly mixed.
you can prepare it in a dutch oven, cast iron skillet, or as i did, in my tagine.
stress is the real enemy and stressing about how to feed yourself, one of the fundamental blocks of life will be a struggle every day, several times a day if you can’t come to some sort of peace with it all.
so please don’t be harsh with us about our choices, be compassionate, try to help but be kind, many people deal with all kinds of food issues and can easily be triggered by these kinds of arguments over what is “right”.
some people say avoid carbs (they are in everything from fruits and veggies to grains), others say avoid sugar, even in fruit – or only eat fruit on an empty stomach, or only eat sugar with fat and protein to keep insulin levels in check!
this smoothie is great way to get in some extra grain-free carbohydrates, fat and protein post workout.
there is dna, environmental factors, stress, physiology, lifestyle to consider in every single person when trying to decide what is best to fuel their individual bodies.
you will have to add more water intermittently so the stew doesn’t dry out.
it was an interesting discussion, but none of us were able to really make sense of that!
if i could eat wheat i would (i can get wheat and spelt locally.
i don’t have the answers, but i don’t think anyone does at this point.
fascinating landscape!
if wheat is the only factor.
the russian yogurt pancakes (adapted from a girl’s guide to guns and butter ) ingredients: 2 c plain yogurt (going bad ok) – i usually use up my filmjölk before it is time to make another batch enough flour to make a medium-thick batter (one that holds its shape but is still a liquid rather than a paste) – i usually use about 1 ½ cups of freshly ground buckwheat flour.
but the reality is, there is no simple answer, there is no magic bullet.
i don’t eat packaged or processed foods or artificial sweeteners.
the berries (which look a bit like small blueberries, although there is a white version as well )are used to make a delicious aperitif, called “mirto”, which uses both varieties of berries separately, creating a red and white version and the leaves.
pin it this recipe is kitty approved!
with the first in this series, i am giving a nod to my husband’s sardinian roots.
it is funny the things you miss the most when you can’t have them.
i make sure to have a balanced diet – i eat from all the food groups.
in another small bowl, beat together the butter, yogurt and eggs.
i guess that is why i follow wapf for the most part, because it is a very balanced diet that makes sense.
like the idea of “chicken cacciatore” or hunter’s chicken.
lately too, i see the demonizing of olive oil to endorse butter and lard-
i stay away from gmos and msg.
i think these are all important things, in fact more important that the specific foods you are eating.
you can see this in the name of this dishpurcavru
but really, it is all about quality.
so i don’t eat many of them, although the ones i do eat, i eat a good amount of, like buckwheat.
and, like the rest of italy the population consumes large amounts of pasta and bread.
once you become a farmer (and a hunter) certain things you never would have thought of before become hysterical.
i eat whole fresh foods, much of which i raise or grow myself or buy locally.
add the meat and a pinch of salt and brown over medium heat.
if you aren’t into history, sardinia is home to some of the most beautiful beaches in the world,la costa smeralda-
so in my journey to find amazing, delicious gluten free pancakes, we have tried many kinds and have found some favorites:buckwheat pancakes , coconut flour pancakes, norske pannekakker (grain free) and for those of you who are not gluten-free i suggestsourdough crepes and aebelskiver.
tags: purcavru in agru durci garnished with mirto i told you all i was going to be making things interesting on here with different recipes from a variety of different world cuisines!
i also used the italian classic, chianti wine to prepare the dish.
you get the gist…so although i will post  my awesome pumpkin smoothie with options and add ins, i will also give you  ideas for entirely different smoothie recipes.
just think about our great-grandparents who cooked with a lot of butter and were in good health.
how about if i say you can have brownies for breakfast?
ingredients: 2 cups black beans cooked 1/3 cup coconut oil ½ cup honey, warmed 2 tsp pure vanilla extract 3 eggs ¼ tsp sea salt 1 tsp dandy blend – instant dandelion beverage single servings – 25 packet(s) (an instant caffeine free coffee substitute or you could use instant espresso)
sofya says that these pancakes are great to make when your yogurt is starting to go bad.
i love and adore food, but it is not my religion.
recently we have added oladyi to our list and currently these are the reigning favorites!
this just goes to show that although i don’t follow a particular diet, that i do find a lot of good recipes in the cookbooks!
sardinians also use the leaves in cooking, similar in manner to bay leaves or other herbaceous plants.
pour into a prepared 9×9 inch baking dish.
on the coast, where we didn’t spend much time, there is also a lot of fish and seafood consumed.
and i remembered sticky toffee pudding.
heat butter in the skillet and spoon the batter in.
if you eat grassfed butter, you are basically eating a nutritious, body boosting food, made up of vitamins, minerals and healthy fats coming from healthy animals eating nutritious grass.
sauté onion in a pan (i used cast iron) with 4-5 tbs of olive oil.
i watch my sugar intake and if i have chips or something like that, i make sure they are organic.
this recipe comes from (but slightly modified) the cookbookprimal blueprint quick and easy meals.
so that is a lot of pre-history going on there!
place the cut vegetables in a pan and cover with water, add about a tsp of salt.
that said, many times when i post a specific recipe, i get a lot of great  comments like:“can i substitute y ingredient for x ingredient?” or “i wish i could make that, but i don’t consume x  ingredient” or “i wish i could make this
provided that you don’t have an allergy, the stress of this will kill you faster than carbs, dairy or whatever is the taboo food of the day.
but the thing i loved about it most is that it is home to some of the oldest trees in europe.
when i make pancakes, i usually preheat my oven to 200-250 f and place cooked pancakes on a cookie sheet in the oven to keep warm while the others cook.
the first time i had it was in galway, ireland.
fry the egg in 1 tbs of butter.
once i tasted it, i knew that it was this beautiful amber syrup that really lends the magical element that makes a classic sticky toffee pudding taste.
then add the fruit, butters, oils and nuts and then the cinnamon.
turn off heat when butter starts to sizzle and brown.
pinch of salt ¼ cup softened butter ¼ cup greek yogurt 2 eggs ¼ cup lyle’s golden syrup 2 cups heavy cream ¼ cup lyle’s golden syrup ¼ cup coconut palm sugar method:
scottish in january , shortbread is a perfect addition to the subject.
many in the real food culture give people the impression that if “you just do it right” you will be a perfect human, free of health issues, as energetic and strong as a superhero, popping out babies left and right, etc.
one thing i will never be is dogmatic about food!
but i don’t know where to get x ingredient” or simply “i don’t like x ingredient”.
but, i have 100% northern european dna and because my ancestors have a long history with dairy animals (at least 10,000 years – as this is when cattle were domesticated) our genes actually mutated to be able to consume and digest dairy!
bake for about 40 minutes or until golden in color.
serve warm, serves 6.
this is your smoothie recipe – easy to tailor to  your tastes and needs.
add the chicken and fry for 5 minutes, remove chicken from the pan and drain in paper towels.
i never eat fast food.
in fact it is often looked down upon.
this is because sardinian is much like latin.
i brought these to a social gathering and everyone absolutely loved them!
we were able to visit 2 of these old olives, the oldest being 5,000 years old and the second oldest being around 3,000 – and still producing olives!!!
served with tea, its natural accompaniment, it is pure bliss.
then i took them out of the oven.
if you have a shortbread pan, even better!
these pancakes are referred to in this house as “the pancakes that eat themselves” – they are light, airy and disappear quickly!
turkish eggs: simple, healthy, cost effective food.
¾ cup dutch processed cocoa powder method: preheat oven to 350 f. place all ingredients in a food processor.
i had some delicious buckwheat shortbread this past summer and decided to try my hand at making my own version!
when chickens become part of your life, you start to imagine how a dish like this ever came to be, as “hunting” for chickens really makes no sense – there are very few wild chickens in the world, and raising animals for meat hardly equates to being a hunter.
in fact, i am having a hard time keeping track of all the changes and frankly getting tired doing so because it all seems to be based on flight of fancy!
i found a few, but none of them alone felt like it was going to yield a classic.
this is also a good time to remind you, if you are interested in following my homesteading activities, please check out my bloggot goats (and sheep too)?
that we cannot expect to have the same health that our ancestors did and sometimes we cannot reach optimum health on food alone.
agru durci, which in italian would be cinghiale agrodolce.
some of us need extra help along the way – supplements and what not and there is no shame in that.
ingredients: 2 cups buckwheat flour 1/2 teaspoon sea salt 1/4 cup pure maple syrup (honey works also) 1 stick of cold butter, cut into small pieces method: preheat oven to 300 f. mix all dry ingredients together in a large bowl, then pour maple over top, using your hands, a pastry cutter or a fork, mix in the butter, a little at a time until you have a crumbly dough.
these megalithic structures, round tower-fortresses called nuraghi, which ancient villages were built around are over 35,000 years old and there are over 8,000 of them on sardinia, an island that is about the size and shape as vermont.
but i don’t think that is reasonable for many of us.
try stevia, or fruit sweetened smoothies – dried dates are great for this.
nearly everyone that has even a small plot of land has fruit trees, some grapes to make homemade wine, nut and olive trees, veggie gardens, etc.
serve with tea or coffee!tags:
but coconut flour, which i love and eat often, is not at all local – so i struggle with that).
so i thought posting them on a friday could get you thinking about making these for a wonderful weekend breakfast!
there is paleo and primal, raw, vegan, vegetarian, blood type diet, slow carb, low carb and everything in between and everyone is fighting with each other about what you should eat!
i take care in cooking and preparing meals.
yes, crying, and this folks is why i will never give up eggs again.
i must say that the one ingredient that makes the recipe islyle’s golden syrup - cane sugar syrup that has been made the same way for over 125 years (and another scottish invention!)
on our visit there last fall, we spent time with the extended family.
the best of both worlds!
sardu has been influenced by catalan, spanish and indigenous nuragic elements with some roots from phoenician and etruscan.
and let rest overnight (i leave it out on the counter).
so what the heck do you eat?
just heat the heavy cream, sugar and lyle’s until it boils, then lower heat and simmer for about 10 minutes, while stirring often.
i usually use 1/3 cup for each pancake.
instead of feeling full and tired after eating baked goods, i feel energized!
sardinia actually has its own language, sardu, of which there are several dialects.
i wasn’t able to get wild boar for this dish, but we did use meat from the half pig we bought this year (and butchered ourselves) from a local farmer.
if you can’t afford good quality butter, use less of it and substitute in olive oil.
i mean the english have laid claim to much that has belonged to the scots these many long years, and why quibble over a dessert?
but there is really no need for it – if you actually have the good fortune to try it first hand, i guarantee you will find much to write home about.
ingredients: per smoothie (@ 16 oz) base liquid: 1 cup liquid – kefir, raw milk, coconut  milk are good choices thickener: 1 banana – i also  like using instead 1/2 avocado nuts: 3 tbs almond butter  – you can use any other nut butter or a handful of soaked nuts – i  usually use almonds –click here to understand about the benefits of  soaking nuts sweetener: 1 tbs 100% pure maple syrup, honey  or molasses or 1/8 – ¼ tsp or one or two dried dates (optional) optional add ins: ¼ cup of pumpkin puree, 1/4 yogurt,  1/4 berries, 2 tbs cocoa powder, kale or spinach, dash of cinnamon, 1 shot of  espresso or ¼ cup of coffee, 1 tbs coconut oil, raw pastured raised  chicken egg (do not use conventional eggs from the grocery store), vanilla  extract, powdered ginger, nutmeg, etc. ice method: place all the liquids in your blender first.
so many questions and not enough answers.
one thing which is very unique to sardinian cuisine is the use ofmirto, or myrtle.
it has come to me that a lot of people seem to treat food habits like religion these days.
well i am here to tell you that if you think beans have no place in baked goods; you are seriously missing out on some deliciously protein packed healthy treats.
return the chicken to the casserole, turn to coat with the sauce, cover with a tight fitting lid.
then combine all the dry and wet ingredients together and add ¼ cup of lyle’s while mixing.
it is literally my birthright to do so.
since i was using a scottish recipe for this dish, i decided to pair it with clapshot – a mixture of mashed potatoes and golden turnips (or in this case a rutabaga), a classic scottish side dish.
no matter the origins of this favorite dish, it is perfect hearty fare for the end of winter, or a quick spring cold-snap.
in fact, as i have been discussing all over the web in recent weeks, italians (and likely others, although italy is what i am familiar with) eat copious amounts of it in the 2 mainstays of their diet – pasta and bread and have a very healthy population.
serves 4 or 2 people with leftovers.
why can’t we just say they are all good fats?
well because of its location, sardinian cuisine has been able to capture tastes from various mediterranean influences: catalan, corsican, spanish, italian.
i don’t believe in cutting out whole food groups.
i eat a lot of fermented and cultured foods to promote digestion and keep my gut healthy.
archive for the ‘under one hour’ category « older  entries march 2nd, 2012 by the leftover queen
don’t think these are for you?
just look at the ingredient list for land o’ lakes “light” butter: i ngredients: butter (cream, salt), water*, buttermilk*, contains less than 2% of food starch-modified*, tapioca maltodextrin*, salt, distilled monoglycerides*, lactic acid*, potassium sorbate* and sodium benzoate* (preservatives), pgpr* (emulsifier), natural flavor*, xanthan gum*, vitamin a palmitate*, beta carotene* (color).
bake for 30-35 minutes.
process on  medium speed until well mixed, then start adding ice, a handful at a time,  gradually, until the smoothie is at your desired consistency.
i am a conscious consumer.
press the dough into a prepared (greased with butter) 9-inch round pan.
so i forged out on my own.
i got this recipe from my friend sofya, who blogs over at the girl’s guide to guns and butter .
here are some of my recent combinations: raw milk, pumpkin, 1/2 banana, cinnamon, nutmeg, ginger and a little stevia raw milk, egg, pumpkin puree, almond butter, cinnamon and molasses coconut milk, avocado, cocoa powder, cinnamon, maple kefir, soaked  almonds, dried dates/figs, frozen berries, vanilla extract this smoothie recipe is so versatile you can enjoy it for breakfast, a  snack, dessert or part of any meal when you need an extra boost.
heat oven to 350 f. heat the oil and butter in the vessel you will be using to cook the dish.
i give some suggestions, but feel free to improvise.
cook until you see bubbles and flip.
i have been posting a lot recently on my facebook page about my post  workout pumpkin smoothies and those posts have created quite a buzz!
turkish eggs (adapted from primal blueprint: quick and easy meals) ingredients: ¼ cup plain full fat yogurt 1 large garlic clove, finely chopped 1 egg 2 tbs butter sprinkle of dry thyme ¼ tsp hot paprika pinch of salt method:
let cool about 10 minutes, then flip pan over onto a dish and remove the shortbread.
yes, i realize that i missed international pancake day, but then again, i am not usually one to follow the herd.
i digress, so for burns night i was looking for a festive dessert
there are also beautiful mountains (yes they get snow!) and lunar looking rock formations.
in fact as a gluten-intolerant, i had a hard time in italy in general staying away from wheat as it is in almost everything from bread and pasta, to a thickener in sauces and a coating on vegetables and meats.
i have a gluten allergy and have a hard time digesting grains.
most “butter” these days has canola or other oils on the ingredient list, or “natural flavoring” (code word for msg) – especially when you get into the realm of “light” “lowfat” or “spreadable butter”.
it came from those dark days when i was both gluten and egg free for a time and ended up crying over pancakes.
in fact, i have been meaning to post about these pancakes for a while because we have been enjoying them more times than not on pancake sunday-
if you have been following blogs for any amount of time, it is likely that you have stumbled across these guys at some point.
i usually turn up  the speed to high during the ice process.
please get off your pulpit, preaching to everyone.
1 ½ lbs boneless boar or pork meat, cut into bite sized pieces 1 tsp sugar 1 tbs red wine vinegar 1 tbs tomato paste salt to taste method:
i used a muffin tin to bake my puddings, but you could use ramekins or a large baking dish to make a large pudding (cooking times will vary).
but i don’t  know where to get x ingredient” or simply “i don’t  like x ingredient”.
but once i developed a taste for it, i had it every chance i could get, which considering where i live, is not very often, and since i had to stop eating gluten, not at all!
bake for 20-25 minutes.
*tip: since i wanted to serve my puddings warm, but make them ahead of time, i made them, and then baked them for 10 minutes.
now everyone knows that british/ scottish/ irish cuisine does not get its due credit in the world of gastronomy.
so please, use good quality, healthy butter when cooking.
i know some of you are probably shaking your heads right now in dis-belief, but you see, butter has gotten a bad rap over recent years because the quality of butter found in most grocery stores is dismal.
i did a search through some cookbooks and several blogs looking for the perfect recipe for black bean brownies, but as usual, i didn’t find the perfect one, so of course, i kind of went out on my own and created a recipe inspired by the many that are already out there.
olive oil which has been around as long as butter at least and a staple of all mediterranean diets for millennia.
drain the vegetables through a colander, return to the pan and allow the vegetables to dry out a bit over low heat, stirring often to prevent sticking.
then dilute tomato paste in a cup of warm water, add to the pan, lower the heat, cover and simmer for 45 mins.
add the crushed garlic and chopped rosemary; bring to a boil stirring constantly.
the most amazing thing about italy in general is that you can grow so much food!
i have been posting a lot recently on my facebook page about my post workout pumpkin smoothies and those posts have created quite a buzz!
there has to be other factors, like variety of wheat, the co-mingling with gmo crops, pesticides and the like.
i was able to get some to bring home with me, and this is one of the ingredients that really makes this dish.
add a tbs or two of fair trade cocoa powder (no sugar added).
or “i wish i could make that, but i don’t consume x ingredient” or “i wish i could make this
sticky toffee pudding is a moist, rich cake made with dates (sometimes prunes) and topped with a wonderful toffee sauce.
when i was ready to serve dessert later that night, i popped them back in the oven for another 10 minutes while i made the sauce!
this way they can also be a quick and easy mid-week breakfast.
there is just so much abundance there!
so if you are thinking it is time to use up some old yogurt, these are a perfect way to enjoy it!
the plant is symbolic of love and immortality, and in sardinia it is an essential plant.
for me, a nature worshiper it was akin to meeting gandhi.
i filled my muffin tin to the top with the batter – creating a large muffin sized pudding.
grate the nutmeg and mix thoroughly, season to taste with salt and pepper.
add a handful of spinach  or kale.
but what i was so upset about was missing pancakes, the girl who grew up never liking pancakes, but went to live in norway and fell in love with them.
at this point you can either keep it stove top and simmer for about 30-40 minutes, or you can add the mushrooms, season the dish with salt and pepper and place in the oven for about 45 minutes.
so how does that jive with the whole wheat as the grim reaper argument?
mix in the rest of the ingredients (add more flour if needed).
even if your butter just contains cream and salt, it is likely from cows fed on grain and pumped with hormones, probably living in terrible conditions and that really makes all the difference in terms of your health and your arteries.
after my rant last week, i decided to start off this week with something sweeter and right in time for valentine’s day!black bean brownies .
now onto the shortbread- since we are celebrating all things
this smoothie is great way to get in some  extra grain-free carbohydrates, fat and protein post workout.
pancake sunday is a tradition in our house.
great, go with it, but please stop insinuating that your way is the only way or the best, because i can probably find just as many people who say it isn’t for them!
this time i opted for buckwheat flour.
semantics and doom aside, this dish is a definite favorite all over the world.
in fact, sardinians, are some of the longest lived peoples in the world!
for me it is just another reminder of how detached we are as a society from where our food actually comes from.
i also like organic valley’s pasture butter (green package) and vermont butter & cheese’s european style butter, in that order.
purcavru in agru durci (from cooking in sardinia) ingredients: 4-5 tbs olive oil 1 onion, finely chopped 1 tsp myrtle leaves (substitute bay leaf)
one of my favorite desserts of all time is sticky toffee pudding.
i fell in love with the desserts when i traveled to ireland and scotland-cranachan, treacle pudding, victoria sponge, custards and of course the queen of them all, sticky toffee pudding (that’s why it is all in caps, it is that good!).
lots of paleo folks out there eat coconut oil and coconut flour, but what caveman was producing those items for their diet?
sardinia is a small island off the coast of italy in the vicinity of rome.
there is some mystery to the origins of this special dessert, some say it was developed in the south of england, and others say it was being served and enjoyed in aberdeenshire, scotland many years before if became popular in england.
want to make it a greenie?
serve with clapshot (see recipe below).
bring to a boil over medium heat, then reduce heat and simmer until both vegetables are soft, about 15-20 minutes.
during the last five minutes, uncover pan to reduce the sauce.
i was lucky enough to go there this past year when roberto and i went with our moms on the “roots tour” of italy.
drain the dates and place into a food processor, add the vanilla and whiskey and pulse a few times, until you have a chunky paste.
see, in the great debate about brownies, i fall in the cakey vs. fudgy side of things.
i don’t know what i enjoy better, my workouts or these smoothies afterwards-
i asked the question on facebook the other day after reading anarticle about how wheat is killing the world, how people like italians, and especially sardinians, known the world over as healthy andone of the longest living peoples could be in such a good state of health (the island has the world’s highest documented percentage of people who have passed the century threshold.)
traditionally it was made with oat flour, but most modern versions are made with white flour.
i don’t know what i enjoy better, my workouts or these smoothies  afterwards-
however, this recipe seems to me to be a bit of a cross between the italian pollo alla cacciatoraand the french coq au vin.
it was a huge hit at our burns supper! ingredients: 1 cup of organic chopped dates 1 ¼ cup water 1tbs pure vanilla extract 2 tbs whiskey 1 cup gluten free flour mix 1 cup almond flour/meal ¼ cup arrowroot 2 tsp baking soda
this is when i realized pancakes needed to be celebrated on a weekly basis and not a sunday has gone by without them since.