no comments asian, broccoli, dinner, easy, grilled vegetables, noodles, quick, rice noodles, sesame, soba noodles richard b's vegetarian tacos if a radish and a lumpy potato got together and had a baby, it would look something like jicama.
whether you’re into the romance of valentine’s day or not, we think everyone can agree on one thing: the chocolate!
soba noodles with grilled veggies and sesame ginger dressing this cool vegetarian noodle dish is a perfect meal for any occasion.
seared halibut with white summer salad don’t limit  yourself—any fish is delicious with this salad.
other terrific taco toppers would be diced avocado, jicama or radish slices or chopped green onion.
broccoli sesame noodles fresh and healthy, this veggie-filled dish unites many delicious flavours.
jicama boasts lots of dietary fibre, vitamins a, b and c as well as some calcium, and it can be eaten raw or cooked.
and we know it’s  not summer, but the salad features jicama, fennel and white asparagus.
other terrific taco toppers would be diced avocado, jicama or radish slices or  chopped green onion.
if you can’t find rice noodles, substitute your favourite pasta noodles.
no comments chocolate, chocolate cake, chocolate mousse, chocolate  pudding, chocolate-dipped strawberries, recipes, slow cooker chocolate cake,  valentine's day 4 perfect pear recipes
thinly-sliced jicama rounds are used in place of taco shells!
avocado mango salsa homemade whole wheat and beer pizza this pizza has been known to  disappear off plates in seconds.
even if you’re not a football fan, the  food alone is enough to get anyone excited about the game.
jicama is a root vegetable, and it’s also known as  a mexican yam or a mexican turnip.
no comments blue cheese, maple pears, pears, roasted chicken, salmon, spiced pear chutney, winter greens, winter pears "blazing" big rice noodles tasty, easy and comforting, a big bowl of noodles is sometimes exactly what the doctor ordered.
there aren’t many fruits that are associated with winter, but pears  might just be one of them.
there’s nothing  more scrumptious than the combination of sweet and savory.
no comments avocado mango salsa, beer pizza, chicken fingers, healthy,  nachos, quinoa, snacks, super bowl, whole wheat nachos, whole wheat pizza « older entries subscribe to new posts via rss follow us on twitter for more food ideas top posts 8 amazing muffins for breakfast how to boil the perfect egg nutritional labels for dummies weekend baking adventure: 5 incredible cheesecakes most comments how to boil the perfect egg (3)
chocolate mousse with only tofu, dark chocolate, maple syrup listed in  the ingredients, this mousse is a sin-free sweet treat.
here are five of our favourite chocolate recipes to get you in the mood  tonight.
70% chocolate dipped strawberries a simple, and very impressive,  dessert that will keep your crowd very happy!
since it’s  served at room temperature, you can prepare everything several hours ahead,  then assemble it at the last minute.
not surprisingly, it’s very popular in  mexican cooking, and is also used regularly in southeast asian cooking.
it has a very mild sweet and nutty  flavour, and its texture isn’t unlike that of water chestnuts.
ingredients can be set out on  the table allowing everyone a chance to assemble tacos to their personal taste.
but, like most of our major holidays, the food served isn’t exactly  health-check approved.
not surprisingly, it’s very popular in mexican cooking, and is also used regularly in southeast asian cooking.
and we know it’s not summer, but the salad features jicama, fennel and white asparagus.
blue cheese and pear salmon blue cheese and pear salmon it may sound unusual, but a little canadian  blue and pear make this salmon a must try.
roast chicken and squash with spiced pear chutney there’s nothing more scrumptious than the combination of sweet and savory.
take the pressure off and let your slow cooker handle  dessert.
it can be mashed like a potato,  thrown into salads or added to stir fries.
blue cheese and pear salmon blue cheese and pear salmon it may sound unusual, but a little canadian blue and pear make this salmon a must try.
no comments avocado mango salsa, beer pizza, chicken fingers, healthy, nachos, quinoa, snacks, super bowl, whole wheat nachos, whole wheat pizza a kitchenaid® architect® series food processor by submitting your best potato salad recipe!
winner, best e-newsletter 2010 copas redemption inc., episode 6: art is the new crack (tell all of your crack addict friends)
february 9th, 2012 maple magic pears with cheddar
no comments chocolate, chocolate cake, chocolate mousse, chocolate pudding, chocolate-dipped strawberries, recipes, slow cooker chocolate cake, valentine's day maple magic pears with cheddar
broccoli sesame noodles fresh and healthy, this veggie-filled dish  unites many delicious flavours.
but you can lighten up some  super bowl favourites with these delicious options.
maple magic pears with cheddar these are magical for the fact that they only have four ingredients.
et accessoires du moment
quick fish tacos with lime sour cream fresh and flavourful, this quick  meal is nutritious and fun for the whole family.
5 chocolate recipes for valentine’s day february 14th, 2012 chocolate cake with raspberry jam happy valentine’s day!
slow-cooker chocolate cake sometimes, cooking for a gang uses up every last inch of oven space.
it has a very mild sweet and nutty flavour, and its texture isn’t unlike that of water chestnuts.
chocolate cake with raspberry jam easy to make, this delicious  chocolate cake is made with homemade raspberry jam.
while not all of these are in season (and we’re fans of seasonal eating), they can be found in grocery stores right now.
even if you’re not a football fan, the food alone is enough to get anyone excited about the game.
soba noodles with grilled veggies and sesame ginger dressing this cool  vegetarian noodle dish is a perfect meal for any occasion.
make your own spooky halloween cake pops!
try these four recipes for more ways to enjoy winter pears!
double chocolate pudding a decadent, chocolate-packed pudding.
no comments asian, broccoli, dinner, easy, grilled vegetables, noodles, quick, rice noodles, sesame, soba noodles ingredient primer: jicama february 1st, 2012 richard b's vegetarian tacos if a radish and a lumpy potato got together and had a baby, it would look  something like jicama.
avocado mango salsa the mango adds a sweet and lively twist to this  spicy salsa.
feel free to switch the pears to apple, pancetta to bacon or pecans to almonds  in this perfect cold-weather entrée salad.
since it’s served at room temperature, you can prepare everything several hours ahead, then assemble it at the last minute.
winter greens salad with pancetta, pears and pecans hearty greens are  sturdy enough to hold up well to this warm honey tarragon vinaigrette dressing.
these three recipes will hit the spot when you’re in the mood for a bit of slurping.
here are five of our favourite chocolate recipes to get you in the mood tonight.
be creative with your toppings and use what’s in your fridge.
a kitchen renovation achieves a leed platinum rating — and does it with style nyfw diary: marc jacobs’ dickensian trip, paper-bag waists, jenny packham’s princess looks, and the rachel zoe effect charlotte gill wins b.c. prize for non-fiction happy valentine’s day!
there aren’t many fruits that are associated with winter, but pears might just be one of them.
jicama is a root vegetable, and it’s also known as a mexican yam or a mexican turnip.
orange and avocado salsa orange and avocado salsa serve this refreshing salsa with lightly grilled flatbread.
keep cooked quinoa available in the fridge for extra quick meal prep.
jicama boasts lots of dietary fibre, vitamins a, b and c as well as some  calcium, and it can be eaten raw or cooked.
you can find lots of delicious pears in  markets now, and many of them are lovely to be eaten on their own or added to  salads.
chocolate cake with raspberry jam easy to make, this delicious chocolate cake is made with homemade raspberry jam.
winter greens salad with pancetta, pears and pecans hearty greens are sturdy enough to hold up well to this warm honey tarragon vinaigrette dressing.
crispy quinoa, lime and chipotle-crusted chicken fingers think outside the usual quinoa salad box and this fabulous ancient grain can offer endless recipe possibilities.
delicious with chicken or fish, or on its own with soft corn tortillas.
plus, when you make it at home, you get to control how much sodium goes in.
whether you’re into the romance of  valentine’s day or not, we think everyone can agree on one thing: the  chocolate!
ingredients can be set out on the table allowing everyone a chance to assemble tacos to their personal taste.
crunchy carrots sticks make a delightful accompaniment.
a shot of culture for a redeveloping community from the print edition:
no comments blue cheese, maple pears, pears, roasted chicken, salmon,  spiced pear chutney, winter greens, winter pears 3 delicious big bowls of noodles february 6th, 2012 "blazing" big rice noodles tasty, easy and comforting, a big bowl of noodles is sometimes exactly what  the doctor ordered.
cookbook review: poor girl gourmet (2)
maple magic pears with cheddar these are magical for the fact that they  only have four ingredients.
delicious with chicken or fish, or on its own with soft corn  tortillas.
butcher primer part 1: a cut above the rest (2)
no comments avocado salsa, dinner, easy, fish tacos, jicama, orange salsa, seared halibut, vegetarian tacos crispy quinoa, lime and chipotle-crusted chicken strips after the major holidays, super bowl sunday might just be one of the greatest food events of the year.
70% chocolate dipped strawberries 70% chocolate-dipped strawberries a simple, and very impressive, dessert that will keep your crowd very happy!
if you can’t find  rice noodles, substitute your favourite pasta noodles.
it can be mashed like a potato, thrown into salads or added to stir fries.
they come together quickly, and make for a lovely  dessert.
these three recipes will hit the spot when you’re in  the mood for a bit of slurping.
thinly-sliced jicama rounds are used in place of  taco shells!
they come together quickly, and make for a lovely dessert.
“blazing” big rice noodles humanity has a natural affinity  for the comfort afforded by a warm bowl of noodles.
not all of these are lower  in fat, but they all deliver more health per serving, whether it be whole wheat  ingredients, more protein, more healthy fats or less sodium than their  store-bought cousins.
but, like most of our major holidays, the food served isn’t exactly health-check approved.
be creative with your toppings and use  what’s in your fridge.
whole wheat nachos with corn this spin on nachos still packs a cheesy punch, but whole wheat is a healthier base than traditional nacho chips.
not all of these are lower in fat, but they all deliver more health per serving, whether it be whole wheat ingredients, more protein, more healthy fats or less sodium than their store-bought cousins.
quick fish tacos with lime sour cream fresh and flavourful, this quick meal is nutritious and fun for the whole family.
if you’ve never cooked with jicama, give it a shot with one of these  four recipes.
crispy quinoa, lime and chipotle-crusted chicken fingers think outside  the usual quinoa salad box and this fabulous ancient grain can offer endless  recipe possibilities.
take the pressure off and let your slow cooker handle dessert.
hugs and kisses from canadian family 4 perfect pear recipes hot entertainment: funny folks 10 beautiful gowns inspired by real canadian brides film noir: osez le noir et blanc avec les robes
orange and avocado salsa serve this refreshing salsa with lightly  grilled flatbread.
feel free to switch the pears to apple, pancetta to bacon or pecans to almonds in this perfect cold-weather entrée salad.
but you can lighten up some super bowl favourites with these delicious options.
chicken wings, nachos with cheese sauce, pizza, beer… it’s not exactly a healthfest.
you can find lots of delicious pears in markets now, and many of them are lovely to be eaten on their own or added to salads.
seared halibut with white summer salad don’t limit yourself—any fish is delicious with this salad.
slow-cooker chocolate cake sometimes, cooking for a gang uses up every  last inch of oven space.
varieties such as d’anjou pears are ready to  be picked in the fall, and then take four to six weeks to ripen, and can be  kept in cold storage for months.
vegetarian tacos these no-cook tacos are a zesty spin  on international entertaining.
avocado mango salsa the mango adds a sweet and lively twist to this spicy salsa.
chocolate mousse with only tofu, dark chocolate, maple syrup listed in the ingredients, this mousse is a sin-free sweet treat.
if you’ve never cooked with jicama, give it a shot with one of these four recipes.
if weather doesn’t permit grilling outside, try a grill pan on the stove.
vegetarian tacos these no-cook tacos are a zesty spin on international entertaining.
chicken wings, nachos with cheese sauce, pizza,  beer… it’s not exactly a healthfest.
chocolate cake with raspberry jam happy valentine’s day!
avocado mango salsa homemade whole wheat and beer pizza this pizza has been known to disappear off plates in seconds.
plus, when you make it at home, you get to control how much  sodium goes in.
homemade pickles are easier than you think (2)
no comments avocado salsa, dinner, easy, fish tacos, jicama, orange  salsa, seared halibut, vegetarian tacos 4 healthier super bowl snacks january 30th, 2012 crispy quinoa, lime and chipotle-crusted chicken strips after the major holidays, super bowl sunday might just be one of the  greatest food events of the year.
whole wheat nachos with corn this spin on nachos still packs a cheesy  punch, but whole wheat is a healthier base than traditional nacho chips.
while  not all of these are in season (and we’re fans of seasonal eating), they  can be found in grocery stores right now.
if weather doesn’t permit  grilling outside, try a grill pan on the stove.
“blazing” big rice noodles humanity has a natural affinity for the comfort afforded by a warm bowl of noodles.
keep cooked quinoa available in the fridge for extra  quick meal prep.
roast chicken and squash with spiced pear chutney
varieties such as d’anjou pears are ready to be picked in the fall, and then take four to six weeks to ripen, and can be kept in cold storage for months.