pour into the serving bowl, sprinkle with the dried mint (a generous amount).
serve immediately in soup bowls with lots of crusty bread for dipping.
- how to make hoom kufteh/chi kufteh - how to make armenian coffee - how to make kufteh - how to fold grape leaves - how to make boorma - how to use fillo dough - how to make fassoulia - how to braid chorag armenian recipes - ajik (omelet dessert) - anoush abour - armenian christmas pudding - apricot - pistachio scones - apricot crescent cookies - apricot pie - apricot-glazed chicken - armenian bread - arabkirsee gagulth hatz - armenian chicken soup - armenian chickpea salad - armenian coffee - armenian cookies - armenian dill cheese - armenian french toast (dzevadzegh) - armenian grilled cheese sandwich - armenian honey cakes - armenian honey cookies - 2 versions - armenian iced tea - armenian lamb and mango stew - armenian lamb burgers - armenian meat loaf - armenian pancakes - armenian pepper paste - armenian potato - egg salad - armenian salad - armenian stewed chicken - armenian string cheese - armenian stuffing - armenian style chicken liver - armenian walnut cake - armenian-style easter egg salad - artichokes with olive oil - baba ghanoush - banerov hatz (cheese and onion bread) - basic basduk (bastegh) - basic vegetable broth - bastegh (armenian grape candy) - basterma - homemade - bishi (zing-a-ling, armenian zeppoli) - black beluga lentil soup - bolsetsi kufteh - boorma - borag bites - borani - lamb and chard stew with bulgur balls - brownies made with yogurt - bulgar pilaf - dikranagerdtsi style - bulgur pilaf - bulgur pilaf with onions and tomato juice - cabbage soup - candied quince preserves - cardamom fruit salad - cardamom rub - cardamom-pecan cookies - cheese borags (armenian fillo pastry) - cheese boregs with puff pastry - cheese kadaif - chemen (chaman,chaiman) - cherry liqueur - chicken in a pot - chor mees (dried meat) - chorag - chorag, zeytoonian style - cilantro tahini dip - clarified butter - cold yogurt soup - cream filling for kadaif - dolma - dolma deconstructed - douzma - easter spinach salad - eggplant caviar - eggplant spread - eggplant-zucchini bake - farina halva - farro-vegetable soup - fassoulia (armenian green beans) - flour helva (armenian fudge) - fool midammis - fool- fava bean
c elebrating a heritage of  armenian recipes thursday, october 29, 2009 bolsetsi kufteh...or is it?
dear friends around the world, if our american measures in spoons, quarts and pounds seem strange, here's a link to a handy metric conversion site.
put into a serving bowl and serve.
replydelete - anonymous feb 18, 2010 05:20
10:15 pm for the record, i like both versions.
neither of us can vouch for the origin of  the recipe.
place the yogurt in a mixing bowl and add a ladleful of the hot broth.
- sini kufteh (oven-baked kufteh) - an armenian christmas family tradition is born - nevik soup?
do any of you recognize this  dish by another name?
just click on whatever interests you in one of our recipe links below -- and please add your recipes, anecdotes or suggestions as comments.
my dad's recipe - simit - sini kufteh (oven-baked kufteh) - siserov kufteh (seesere kufta, chick pea kufteh) - soft, sweet chorag (from the nashmy family) - soojoog (soujouk) and eggs - sour cherry cordial - sour cherry preserves - sour spinach and rice - spiced labne balls (yogurt cheese) - spiced pom cider - spicy southwestern tabbouleh - spicy yogurt cake - spinach and bean stew - spinach borags - spinach bulghour with basterma - st. sarkis halva - zee sahakian - stock (from bones) - stuffed apricots - stuffed grape leaves - sud keeba - surum - pasta with yogurt sauce - swiss chard and lentil soup (2 versions) - swiss chard with chick peas - nevik (neeveeg) - tabbouleh - tahini bread (pastry) - tahini cookies - tahn - tamarind cooler - tass kebab (armenian lamb stew) - tomato and eggs - topig - lenten chick pea appetizer - tourshi/tourshou (pickled veggies) - turkey dolma with romaine - tvorog - farmer's cheese - vegetable broth - vegetable bulgur - vegetable stew - tourlou - vegetable-lamb bake - vegetable-stuffed zucchini boats - vospov kufteh - red lentils with bulgur - walnut-olive relish - watermelon - white fish with spinach - yalanchi (avedyan recipe) - yalanchi (vezirian-hovsepian recipe) - yellow split pea soup - yogurt (madzoon) and honey - yogurt - lemon pudding - yogurt cheese - yogurt soup - tanabour - yogurt with nuts and fruit - yogurt-garlic sauce - zadigi kahke (easter cookies) - zatar, za'atar, zahtar - zitounou trakhig - small kufteh - zucchini and eggs - zucchini pancakes - zucchini with rice preserving a heritage one recipe at a time!
we'll do the same in return.
if you like, you can hold back some of the mint and add to the top as a garnish.
- baba ghanoush - ▼ 2009 (189) - ▼ october (16) - bastegh is the only "nanny candy" worth eating -- ... - bolsetsi kufteh...or is it?
sauce ingredients: 2 egg yolks juice of one lemon, or to taste sauce directions: prepare sauce just before serving.
she called itbolsetsi kufteh -- in other words, kufteh (armenian meatballs) as made in bolis, the  armenian name for istanbul.
bolsetsi kufteh meatball ingredients: 1 lb. ground beef, lamb or turkey 1 egg ½ small onion, finely chopped 1/3 cup uncooked long grain rice salt and pepper to taste dash water flour 2 quarts of water 3 beef bouillon cubes (or salt and pepper to taste)
knead all the ingredients (except for the lard/butter) for 5-10 minutes until it forms a dough.
how wonderful that you are carrying on your family's culinary heritage.
tbsp dried mint 5-6 cups broth
the mixture is formed into balls, then cooked in a  tomato-based sauce.
add a few tablespoons of the hot cooking broth to the egg-lemon mixture, stirring constantly.
but we can assure you that this is one hearty, satisfying  dish that combines the tang of armenian lemon-chicken soup with the  tummy-filling goodness of meat and rice.
place in the freezer to harden.
the cooked rice sticks out of the meatballs, somewhat resembling the quills that protrude from a porcupine.
add the broth, the tomato sauce, the lemon juice and the mint.
this procedure ensures that the yogurt does not curdle.
she called itbolsetsi kufteh -- in other words, kufteh (armenian meatballs) as made in bolis, the armenian name for istanbul.
the real secrets of armenian cooking are kept by w... great armenian chefs!
in the southern u.s., a recipe  called "porcupine meatballs" combines ground beef with chopped onion,  rice, seasonings.
cook on low heat for about 5 minutes.
- mock kheyma, a lenten treat - recipe request: chamanichur - ► february (10) - lemony artichokes, potatoes and dill - cars were supposed to be the stars, but food was t... - ghapama - stuffed, baked pumpkin - lucine kasbarian's swiss chard lentil soup - planet ozone: another world that we'd be happy to ...
doug's mom wasn't bolsetsi, nor was anyone else in either of our  families.
bring to a boil and add the meatballs.
1 cup or a little less fine bulghur 1/2 medium yellow onion 1 tsp red pepper paste (to taste) salt, black pepper, allspice (optional) 1-2 sticks of butter or similar quantity of lard
bolsetsi  kufteh 1 lb.
you are invited to share your family’s favorite recipes along with a little background about them, perhaps stories about cooking with “nanny”, or whatever inspires you inyour kitchen.
cooler - saint sarkis halva - salmon mousse - sesame crackers -- whole wheat - shakar loqum - armenian sugar cookie - shakarshee recipes (2) - armenian sugar cookies - shish kebab - shish kebab (khorovatz) - shish kebab -
olive oil or butter or combo fry the onions in the olive oil or butter until they are translucent but not brown.
i hope this makes our recipes a little handier.
neither of us can vouch for the origin of the recipe.
the florida rambler - veken gueyikian - www.mousaler.com we love to share -- but please be fair!
this procedure, called tempering, helps prevent the eggs from scrambling.
the southern recipe generally use a tomato-based sauce; the armenian sauce uses egg yolks and lemon juice, no tomatoes.
a small bowl of cold water will help in this step, because you can periodically moisten your hands to avoid having the meat stick to them.
it’s fun to share meal preparation with family & friends, try regional recipes of one’s own nation, explore the intricate flavors of another country, or learn the importance behind the art & science of food preparation.
posted by robyn at 12:05 am labels: armenian meatballs, bolsetsi kufteh, kufteh, meatballs, porcupine meatballs 6 comments: add comment - ara dec 14, 2009 10:13 pm my mom and i had a bonding moment last week when we made "yakhneli keuftah" together (in armenian, dzhurot klolak).
robyn kalajian robyn@thearmeniankitchen.com subscribe!
do any of you recognize this dish by another name?
welcome to thearmeniankitchen.com, where you will be inspired by an ancient cuisine, experiment with exotic ingredients, master cooking techniques you were afraid to attempt, and so much more.
- i may go flat broke buying flat bread, but it migh...
pilaf - ► november (10) - nut-filled kadaif (kinaffeh) - making boorma using a unique technique!
no two chorag recipes are alike!
shape into small balls about 1/2 to 3/4 inch in diameter.
kalajian email me who's who robyn kalajian, our chief cook, is a retired culinary teacher.
it is somewhat similar to your bolsetsi keuftah recipe, so i thought i would post it.
- ► 2011 (129) - ► december (12) - a request for zadig kahke - revival of an armenian church in turkey: a link to... - merry december 25th
posts atom posts comments atom comments a few of our favorite sites - ak-mak cracker bread - art and absinthe - cake champagne and magazines - cave cibum: beware the food - cobblestone teacher's guide to armenian americans - colour of pomegranates - david blasco's royal enfield blog - hifood.org - hrag vartanian on arts and culture - hye thyme cafe - jan norris food and florida - leila alson's power speaking - little ferraro kitchen - marash girl - nory candy and pastry - quantity foods - chef jenn - shirley (kalashian) collins' blog -
doug kalajian, sous chef, is an author and retired journalist.
skip to main | skip to sidebar everything about armenian food!
pm i am a bolsetsi we call this soup sulu kofte or churig kofte meaning watery kofte replydelete - anonymous may 9, 2011 02:12 am this soup is also found in cyprus( perhaps greece too) but with parsley and mint used in seasoning the meat balls rather than red pepper paste and short grain rice rather than long....its called yourvarlakia avgolemono reply delete - robyn may 9, 2011 06:50
tomato broth-- 1 medium yellow onion, sliced into crescents.
there are two versions of the broth.
the cooked rice sticks out  of the meatballs, somewhat resembling the quills that protrude from a porcupine.
mix together the meat, egg, onion, rice, salt, pepper & dash of water.
run the bulghur briefly through cold water to moisten it.
now put on your apron, wash your hands, and join me on this journey.
aside from the above tidbit, the recipe sounds suspiciously similar  to an armenian recipe my mother-in-law gave me.
replydelete 1 lb ground extra lean meat (for chi keuftah, or ground 3 times).
- stovetop lamb roast: sunday dinner, any day of the... - armenian cabbage soup - know your potatoes - church bazaars-
a stick-to-your-ribs meal - charles sarkis - an armenian?
- vegetable-lamb bake - wrapping up a healthier armenian dinner - the oldest newly discovered health food -
2 tbsp butter boil the broth and gently drop in the meatballs.
when the meatballs float to the surface of the broth, they are ready.
- 'made in armenia direct' links armenia's craftspe... - black beluga lentils, our latest discovery - the search for zadig kahke continues...
- even in france, the best food is armenian - gatnabour - armenian rice pudding - khashlama, a newly discovered, very old armenian r... - midia dolma - a big hit at st. nersess seminary ch... - sonia tashjian and st. sarkis day - ► january (10) - a mysterious kitchen tool to some, but not to me!
carefully add meatballs to water.
it’s that time of year again - liquid licorice: like candy for adults - dip, coat, bite… - an armenian exchange student in, of all places...
slowly stir the tempered egg mixture into the broth - the color of the broth will change instantly.
1 small can tomato sauce 1/2 lemon (to taste, can be a little more) 2-3
one is with yogurt, the other with tomato.
my aintabtsi grandmother made the version with yogurt, while my adanatsi grandmother made the one with tomato sauce.
- pomegranate jelly - homemade - pomegranate martini - pork kebab - potato kufta - potato peel broth (vegetarian) - potato salad with pepper paste - potato-green bean-bulgur pilaf - pumpkin hummus - pumpkin seed brittle - pumpkin soup - quince and lamb
-- robyn and douglas kalajian our favorites from amazon.com amazon.com widgets
but we can assure you that this is one hearty, satisfying dish that combines the tang of armenian lemon-chicken soup with the tummy-filling goodness of meat and rice.
shape into about 12 - 15 meatballs.
above are some of our favorite books and cds.
when it is hot enough (lukewarm or a little more), you can put the yogurt into the pan with the meatballs and the remainder of the broth.
in a small bowl, mix together the egg yolks and lemon juice.
cook until the meatballs float to the top.
do not stack them so they don't flatten out.
the pantry followers confused by american measures?
- cardamom-pecan cookies - it’s christmas baking time!
- farro - an ancient grain making a come-back - it's gouvedge time!
in the southern u.s., a recipe called "porcupine meatballs" combines ground beef with chopped onion, rice, seasonings.
please let us know if you have any other suggestions.
commercial use is strictly prohibited without advance permission, but we're thrilled if you want to share any of our posts with your friends and readers for free.
- merry armenian christmas!
skip to main  | skip to sidebar everything about armenian food!
for the lazy version, just omit this step.
this will fry the mint.
it's free for you, and it helps support thearmeniankitchen.com.
reply delete - robyn dec 15, 2009 01:05
stew - rachal - candied pumpkin - red lentil - apricot soup - red lentil and potato kufteh - red lentil and vegetable soup - red lentil soup - red lentil soup from christine datian - red pepper paste - red pepper paste (long version) - roasted pumpkin seeds - roasted spiced chickpeas -
microwave - hoom kufteh/chi kufteh (raw beef) - hummus - hummus with spicy olive and okra topping - hyetaliyah (mouhalabieh) - a pudding - imam bayeldi - stuffed eggplant - jajik (chilled yogurt-cucumber soup) - kadaif with nut filling - kahke with yanesoon (anise seed circles with sesame cookies) - kahkee (cookie) - kale and white bean soup - katah (ovsanna kaye's recipe) - katah with filling - katah, ashma (the armenian croissant) - kavourma ala onnik dinkjian - kebab cubano - khashlama (meat, broth and vegetables) - koorabia - kourabia cookies - kufteh - deconstructed - kumba cake (st. sarkis day treat) - labne bread pudding - labne frosting - lahmajoun (shortcut method) - lamb and eggs - lamb and feta burgers - lamb and pilaf - lamb roast - lavash (armenian bread) - lemon-roasted potatoes - lemony artichokes, potatoes and dill - lentil and brown rice salad with cumin dressing - lentil salad with feta and tomatoes - lentil soup - red, brown, green lentils - lentil soup with spinach - lule kebab (lamb burger) - manti - maque choux - armenian style - matnakash - an armenian bread - meatless imam bayeldi - or - baylee baghlee - midia dolma (armenian mussels) - midia dolma (the long version) - mini paklava - mint tea with arak - mock kheyma - muhammara (red pepper spread) - mujadarah - nanny's armenian potato salad - nevik soup - noonoog, noonook, nunug (lamb and chickpea soup) - nut-filled kadaif - paklava - tradition style - parsley, onions and eggs - perfect pilaf - pilaf - plaki - plaki (armine dedekian's) - plaki with fish - pomegranate and pear salad
c elebrating a heritage of armenian recipes thursday, october 29, 2009 bolsetsi kufteh...or is it?
that's what i call bonding!
- thanksgiving recipes showcase our armenian heritag... - not to brag, but . . .
stew - gatnabour - armenian rice pudding - ghapama - stuffed, baked pumpkin - goat stew - goulougoos - gouvedge - gouvedge - nashmy style - grape leaves, stuffed - meatless - grape-orzo-pistachio salad - gud (pumpkin seeds) - hard-cooked eggs - hassa - a dish for christenings - healthy holiday cocktail - heart healthy kufteh - helva with cream - khavitz - herriseh (keshkeg) - homemade madzoon (yogurt) - homemade madzoon (yogurt) -
why the name porcupine?
- searching for buska – or something like that!
all contents of thearmeniankitchen.com are copyright by the authors.
- you can never have too many cookbooks!
see anything you like?
ground beef, lamb or turkey 1 egg ½ small onion, finely chopped 1/3 cup uncooked long grain rice salt and pepper to taste dash  water
all we ask is that you attribute anything you reproduce to thearmeniankitchen.com, and link back to us if you're posting our work on your blog.
aside from the above tidbit, the recipe sounds suspiciously similar to an armenian recipe my mother-in-law gave me.
serve with crusty bread (armenian bread is, of course, ideal).
and if you email a picture of your favorite armenian cook to chefpix@thearmeniankitchen.com, we'll add it to our photo gallery of great armenian chefs below.
if you're interested in buying anything from amazon.com, please enter their site through ours by using the search box below.
for a quick weekday dinner, you can use frozen tortellini instead of the meatballs.
there's also a storehouse of ingredients, tips and even more recipes in the armenian pantry.
the armenian version of porridge is always just ri... - a uniquely armenian gift idea - christine datian's red lentil soup - potato-green bean bulgur
bring 2 quarts of water to a boil; add bouillon cubes.
- saluting the first ian chef: geoffrey zakarian - cream filling for kadaif - a beautiful beach and armenian food make a perfect... -
as you make each keuftah, place it on a cookie sheet.
here's the part of our recipe that makes it different from the southern version.
yogurt broth-- 5-6 cups broth (chicken, beef, etc.)
doug's mom wasn't bolsetsi, nor was anyone else in either of our families.
for the full, traditional recipe, knead the lard or butter with salt, pepper, and allspice.
reduce heat to medium and cook for about 25-30 minutes, or until rice is tender.
form into round balls (about 1/8 inch diameter).
in that case, i reduce the amount of the broth so it is less like a soup and more like a sauce.
- how to make douzma - how to make perfect pilaf - armenian lamb burgers (luleh kebab)
food connects us across all boundaries - generational, national, physical, social, nutritional, and cultural.
tom vartabedian says we're ... - st. david women's guild members get a taste of mus...
it doesn’t matter where you live, what your ethnic background is, whether your food preparation skills are very basic to highly professional, or what your finances are, everybody has to eat.
bring back to a simmer and let the meatballs cook, being careful not to mix them too harshly (or else they will break up).
if so, please let us know!
continue adding broth in order to elevate the temperature of the yogurt gently.
if you made the frozen butter/lard, then open up each ball, place the ball of butter/lard inside and close it over.
gently heat the soup until the yogurt is hot enough to serve but at all costs avoid boiling (or it will curdle).
one container drained yogurt (lebni) or one container of regular unflavored yogurt (in which case, reduce the broth to 3-4 cups).
amazon.com search 2.0 amazon.com widgets blog archive - ► 2012 (29) - ► march (9) - lentil and black bean chili - tahini bread, a lenten pastry - cilantro and coriander revisted - chemen - fenugreek - sour spinach and rice - michink - median day of lent - topik - an easier version!
the mixture is formed into balls, then cooked in a tomato-based sauce.
- homemade - rose water
am thanks for sharing the cyprus version with parsley and mint...
such wonderful flavors!
armenian recipes are as varied as their regions and dialects.
newer post next page home subscribe to: post comments (atom) our latest video how to make douzma!
heat the butter and, when it is foaming, pour over the mint.
- share your christmas recipes -- please!