it is an  important ingredient in medicine.
other studies showed that  these alternative vegetable oils increased the fat content of foods fried in  it.
it retains most of the phytonutrients and  chemical properties already mentioned.
an early food pyramid that reflects the support of polyunsaturated  oils.
therefore, the mcfa from the coconut oil is easily metabolized and poses no  risk to clogging the arteries, because it does not require lipoproteins or  special enzymes to utilize the fat by the body.
its meat is thick and hard and less  sweet than the meat of the young coconut.
politically incorrect nutrition: finding reality in the mire of food.
i used vco several years ago, but stopped and have gradually gained back weight i previously lost.
the coconut oil manufacturers stood up to  dispute the common misconceptions promoted throughout the years.
they had much better health than  those in north america and europe who didn't use coconut oil.
the coconut palm tree has probably a thousand uses.
it typically grows to 60 to 70 feet  tall and has a life span of up to 70 years.
poor  quality oil or rancid coconut oil can irritate the throat.
it was not  only an edible oil; it was used to make soap, candles, lamps, pomades, and many  cosmetics.
this  perpetuated a perfect environment for other types of oil producers to take  advantage of this growing consumer fear.
rbd coconut oil may have a mild musty or chemical taste.
in india it is referred to as "kalpa vriksha" or the  "tree which provides all the necessities of life".
we have part of the reason for the increasing epidemic of obesity, heart  problems and diabetes that is short changing the longevity of many people in  the west.
it was also produced in latin america and south america.
the  scientific and political propaganda was successful in getting the interest of  the public to replace tropical oils with cheaper polyunsaturated soybean oil  from american farmers.
in the philippines  it is called the "tree of life".
the rbd coconut oil is a hydrogenated coconut oil.
as a  result, much of the needed phytonutrients are removed.
it would seem that replacing coconut oil (even palm oil)  with hydrogenated vegetable oils, such as soybeans, is only beneficial to these  edible oil industries and not its consumers.
other parts of the plant are used as  materials to build shelter, make clothing, charcoal, and various tools.
reading references: barbee, m. (2004).
it bears year round in bunches of 5 to 12 nuts every month.
the fatty  acids found in coconut oil has no harmful effects and can promote better health  because it has antiviral, antifungal and antimicrobial properties.
vital  health publishing: usa.
it also helped to alleviate my dry skin problems, which are back again.
the content of meat and  liquid varies as the nut matures.
these people were  relatively free from the the degenerative disease that plagued those under the  american or western diet.
these are the  producers that were mostly affected by the biggest propaganda ever hatched in  the field of nutrition.
a number of interesting facts came out of these  studies as they observed the use of coconut oil in some populations that had a  high consumption of coconut oil.
coconut  oil was introduced to the europeans as far back in the 15th century.
perhaps, it is time for society to start going back to basics if they  wish to see a drastic improvement in the overall health of all populations.
the  purpose of the plant is numerous.
its fat is not stored like  long-chain fatty acids which are converted into triglycerides in the intestine.
the coconut palm grows  abundantly in the tropics and it gives the islands the feeling of paradise and  romance, especially along its coastlines.
coconut oil: for health and beauty.
therefore, it is important to distinguish between (unrefined) virgin  coconut oil (vco) from the refined, bleached and deodorized (rbd) coconut oil  if you are interested in using it as an edible oil.
this is  because the mcfa is easily absorbed directly into the blood, and carried to the  liver or converted to immediate energy.
by  the 1990's, competition in the edible oil market was practically eliminated.
in these countries the coconut oil is known for its health-giving  properties and therapeutic benefits.
fortunately, coconut oil is still used in many countries and its  benefits are being revealed.
the nut of  the coconut palm plant is used as a source of food to sustain life.
(one important fact to note is that this method of reducing total  cholesterol was not sufficient to determine a healthy cholesterol.
therefore, coconut oil can  help lower ldl cholesterol and prevent high cholesterol, arthritis,  fibromyalgia, candida, herpes, allergies, psoriasis, influenza, diabetes, etc.
coconut oil  is stable and has a long shelf life; it could last up to three years.
they explained that the mcfa in coconut oil is heart friendly, helps protect  against heart disease, and does not have a harmful effect on cholesterol  levels.
in india, panama, and even jamaica, the coconut is  seen as a health tonic for the heart and is consumed like a normal liquid  supplement.
a fully mature  coconut has less liquid and more meat.
the coconut oil was part of the staple diets of  all polynesian, melanesian, and asian peoples.
the food therefore absorbed more fat and could cause an increase fat  consumption, and worse its hydrogenated fat had a negative effect on blood  cholesterol.
the dried copra is generally exposed to the  sun before processing and gather an appreciable amount of bacteria and mold.
the quality of the copra in a coconut used to make coconut oil  varies.
however, it is the meat of the coconut that is used to  make coconut oil that has captured the most controversy within the last two  decades and encourage a number of nutritional fallacies.
the  controversy behind coconut oil coconut oil has been around for  thousand of years.
coconut oil: oil from the tree of life introduction the coconut palm tree is a remarkable and  valuable plant.
tropical oil exporters from malaysia and the philippines responded to what they  termed as "vicious scare tactics" used against their products.
the best way to measure cholesterol is by the use of the cholesterol ratio that  takes into account the amount of hdl and ldl.
the fruit of the coconut tree is  considered botanically a seed, but in the tropics it is mostly considered a  nut.
unfortunately, coconut oil still  continues to get a lot of criticism from alternative vegetable oil supporters  despite the fact that these hydrogenated oils are not easily digested and is  composed of toxic trans fatty acids.
consequently, coconut oil, because of its high content  of saturated fat and its new stigma as an "artery-clogging fat",  became an undesirable and an "unhealthy" choice in cooking.
however, when these people substituted their  traditional diet and adopted the western diet they found an increase in many  diseases that was almost unheard of, such as gout, diabetes, obesity,  hypertension, atherosclerosis, cancer, and arthritis.
the coconut palm tree has the scientific  name: cocos nucifera, but it has other well meaning names that seem to suit it  just as well.
the  coconut palm takes 14 months to fully mature.
vco is colourless, it has a mild coconut  aroma, and a mild pleasant flavor.
the evidence is before  us.
it was  also used in asia, the pacific islands, africa, and central america.
today, almost all the foods we buy in the  supermarket contains alternative hydrogenated vegetable oil.
here are some of the benefits of cooking with coconut oil:  it can treat digestive or mal absorption problems; it can be used in commercial  infant formulas; it reduces fat consumption and stimulates metabolism which can  lead to weight loss; it helps regulate thyroid function, balance blood sugar  level, increase energy, and promote overall heath.
in the usa, coconut oil was already used  in a number of baking products.
conclusion the health benefits derived from coconut oil, particularly vco, is  remarkable and is certainly a necessary tree of life.
vco is the pure,  unadulterated, form of the coconut oil.
the properties and benefits of  coconut oil coconut oil is a stable oil with a chemical composition  of 92% saturated fat, 6% monounsaturated fat, and 2% polyunsaturated fat.
the  medium-chain fatty acid or medium-chain triglycerides in coconut oil makes it a  healthier choice than fat that contains mostly long-chain fatty acids.
but soon a number of consumer groups and special  interest organization began to lobby the removal of coconut oil from most of  its foods.
their claim propelled a number of studies to find support for this  information.
piccadilly books, ltd. : usa.
it is the healthiest form of coconut  oil because it is made with the least possible processing from fresh coconut  meat and with absolutely no chemicals.
a person  with a total cholesterol reading of 200 mg/dl could still have heart problems.
in the 1970s, studies indicated that  saturated fat increase blood cholesterol which could increase the risk factor  in the development of heart disease.
evidence of its early use is seen in ayurveda literature.
thanks for the encouragement to incorporate it in our diet once again.
by the 1800's, coconut oil was a main form of trade for many of these  islands and countries that had an abundance of the coconut palms.
they are made from older  coconuts (damaged or undamaged).
in  india, the oil was used in food, lotion, pomades, baths, and medicines.
the fallacies are exposed
it  is refined and sterilized to remove much of the contaminants.
the anti-tropical oil smear  campaign promoters were very vocal and were soon successful in decreasing the  overall consumption of the tropical oil, including coconut oil, in the american  diet to about 2%.
in these populations, such as the populations  of the polynesian islands, showed the lowest level of cholesterol and low  levels of mortality from heart disease, despite the fact that the consumption  of coconut oil was quite high.
lauric acid is a unique fat that is also found only in mother's milk.
a less refined or lower  grade rbd oil may have a slight yellow color because of the unremoved traces of  contaminants.
book publishing company: usa.
it is an antibiotic, an immuno-enhancer and an immunoregulator.
a well written and enjoyable read for anyone interested in dietary effects or cooking with coconut oil.
and that is just what they did to push  their cheaper hydrogenated oils.
in order to produce a quart of coconut oil, 10 coconuts were needed.
also, the saturated fat in coconut oil  (medium-chain fatty acid or mcfa) is different from the saturated fat in meat.
a young coconut is completely  filled with liquid (referred to as coconut water) and has little meat.
the leading  country producers of coconut oil were philippines, malaysia, indonesia, and
fresh mature coconut meat is also used to  make makecoconut milk, but fresh coconut meat can spoil quickly and so it is  often dried to last for many weeks and longer if sealed in an airtight  container and kept cool.
also, at  temperatures lower than 24.5 degrees c, it can convert to a white solid form.
the meat  is soft and jelly-like in texture and can be eaten with a spoon.
holzapfel, c. & holzapfel, l. (2004).
so  the health benefits of coconut oil remains unheard of in many areas of western  society still.
the general public and commercial food industry  supported the idea that polyunsaturated vegetable oil, such as soybean,  safflower, and corn oils, were good in reducing total cholesterol, better than  coconut oil.
they sought to  clarify that coconut oil contains absolutely no cholesterol because it is  derived from a plant and that it could not raise blood cholesterol or  contribute to heart disease.
even in a number of old american recipe books,  coconut oil was included.
the fatty acid composition of  coconut oil is mostly capric acid, caprylic acid, oleic acid, stearic acid,  palmitic acid, myristic acid, linoleic acid, and mainly lauric acid.
labels: articles, coconut, coconut oil benefits,  coconut oil health benefits, coconut oil nutrition, coconut uses, food articles, garden of life coconut oil, health benefits of coconut, virgin coconut oil
sometimes  chemicals are used to extract the greatest amount of oil from the copra.
a cholesterol ratio of 5.0 is  normal, and above this value indicates an increasing risk of heart disease).
back to articles join our facebook fanpage .
therefore, coconut oil can stay fresher longer than any other polyunsaturated  oils.
an increased demand in coconut would obviously mean higher prices.
rbd coconut oil lacks most or all of  these phytonutrients and is therefore of a lower quality than vco.
food manufacturers even went as far as stating in their  labels that their products "contains no tropical oil".
no mention of coconut oil as a source of fat.
eat fat look thin: a safe and  natural way to lose weight permanently.
by the 1980's, more effort was  place to encourage the use of soybean oils.