get all of the exciting detailshere.
avocado mango salsa the mango adds a sweet and lively twist to this  spicy salsa.
no-bake chocolate cookies these cookies can be made in just three simple steps.
chicken wings, nachos with cheese sauce, pizza,  beer… it’s not exactly a healthfest.
this tasty treat is the perfect mix of  salty and sweet.
hair film noir: osez le noir et blanc avec les robes et accessoires du moment
so whip up a batch of something delicious (whether sweet or salty), grab a blanket and have a solid night in.
so whip up a batch of something delicious (whether sweet or salty), grab a  blanket and have a solid night in.
after the major holidays, super bowl sunday might just be one of the greatest food events of the year.
avocado mango salsa homemade whole wheat and beer pizza this pizza has been known to disappear off plates in seconds.
here are our top movie-night snack foods: cheese and seed savoury cookies these savory cookies, perfect for any time of day, are so delicious they won’t last long!
even if you’re not a football fan, the  food alone is enough to get anyone excited about the game.
little spring cakes filled with fruit, these little individual cakes  are the perfect addition to a party spread for those who like a little sweet at  the end of an evening.
sweet potato almond chipotle soup sweet potato and almond chipotle soup this soup is a perfect balance of  sweet from the sweet potato, earthy from the almonds and heat from the smoky  chipotle—good for you too!
baking and serving on oven-proof platter keeps the cheese warm while eating.
this is a great little snack.
this tasty treat is the perfect mix of salty and sweet.
whole wheat nachos with corn this spin on nachos still packs a cheesy punch, but whole wheat is a healthier base than traditional nacho chips.
iron skillet chocolate chip cookie a classic favourite cookie gets a grown-up makeover with a new cooking surface and some sophisticated salt.
add a rainbow of candy coated sprinkles and this simple,  kid-friendly recipe will become a household favourite.
but, like most of our major holidays, the food served isn’t exactly  health-check approved.
savoury strawberry and pecan truffles one bite into this decadent  morsel and you’ll be asking for more.
avocado mango salsa the mango adds a sweet and lively twist to this spicy salsa.
bacon, caramelized onion and rosemary pizza with blue cheese sliced into squares or slivers, this is a great party appetizer.
no comments cheese cookies, chocolate pretzels, movie night, oven  potato chips, rosemary potato chips, snack mix, snacks, spiced almonds 8 cookies you’ll crave monday, september 19th, 2011 almond butter cookies we love cookies.
serve with sliced baguette or your favourite crackers.
onions and bacon can both be cooked in advance and refrigerated, allowing the pizza to be assembled in minutes.
add a rainbow of candy coated sprinkles and this simple, kid-friendly recipe will become a household favourite.
crunchy carrots sticks make a delightful accompaniment.
cinnamon apple chips crisp, oven baked apple chips with a hint of cinnamon-y-sweetness offer a nutritious solution for snack time.
no comments apple chips, chocolate zucchini muffins, desserts, healthy, puppy chow, resolutions, snack mix, snacks, strawberry tiramisu 5 tasty movie-night snacks friday, october 21st, 2011 cheese and seed savoury cookies a new study has proven what most of have known for years: cold weather can  make you want to curl up indoors with a great movie (particularlyromantic  comedies).
if you want to make it sound fancier, replace the word “pizza” with “flatbread”.
but, like most of our major holidays, the food served isn’t exactly health-check approved.
delicious with chicken or fish, or on its own with soft corn tortillas.
no-bake chocolate cookies these cookies can be made in just three  simple steps.
they said/we said: is the kanye west and kim kardashian romance for real?
if you want to make it sound fancier, replace the word  “pizza” with “flatbread”.
velvety goat cheese blended with  the sweetness of strawberries, crunch of pecans and then drizzled with a  decadent, artisan honey.
serve them in tiny servings to make them  easier to eat around the tv.
serve them in tiny servings to make them easier to eat around the tv.
whether you’re into the classics  (chocolate chip, oatmeal, etc.,) or are looking to try something new (potato  chips and pecans?), try one of our eight favourite cookies below.
but you can lighten up some super bowl favourites with these delicious options.
these muffins are as healthy as they  are decadent.
jane’s killer chocolate cookies you truly cannot get much more chocolate into a single cookie.
sweet "puppy chow" chocolate surprise muffins make these rich chocolate surprise muffins  packed with zucchini as a special treat.
baked mushroom-topped brie the oscars are this weekend, and whether you’re a movie buff or not, the awards show is always a good excuse for a party.
be creative with your toppings and use what’s in your fridge.
instead, it’s a lovely, light-as-a-feather french sandwich cookie, which starts with puffy wafers of ground almonds, confectioners’ sugar and egg white.
this snack mix is a nutritious take on the sweet party mix often referred to as “puppy chow.”
whole wheat nachos with corn this spin on nachos still packs a cheesy  punch, but whole wheat is a healthier base than traditional nacho chips.
read more posts tagged ‘snacks’ tuesday, february 21st,
onions and bacon can  both be cooked in advance and refrigerated, allowing the pizza to be assembled  in minutes.
this version is sealed with a rich, pink, raspberry-flavoured buttercream.
spiced chocolate almonds serve these spicy delicious almonds alone, or  mix them with 2 to 3 cups of popcorn.
almond butter cookies delicious and buttery melt-in-your-mouth cookies.
rosemary oven-roasted potato chips get creative and enjoy making your  own batch of delicious rosemary potato chips.
perfect for lunch boxes.
velvety goat cheese blended with the sweetness of strawberries, crunch of pecans and then drizzled with a decadent, artisan honey.
here are four sweet treats you can make, serve and enjoy without any guilt attached.
they’re good to pack in lunches, good at tea time, good for a snack and good for the soul.
potato chip pecan crunch cookies don’t tell anyone there are crushed potato chips in the mix so that all they will care about is the buttery goodness.
sweet potato almond chipotle soup sweet potato and almond chipotle soup this soup is a perfect balance of sweet from the sweet potato, earthy from the almonds and heat from the smoky chipotle—good for you too!
savoury strawberry and pecan truffles one bite into this decadent morsel and you’ll be asking for more.
this isn’t the coconut macaroon many people are familiar with.
no comments appetizers, baked brie, chevre truffles, cupcakes, easy,  make-ahead, mini cakes, oscar party, oscars, pizza, snacks, sweet potato soup 4 healthier super bowl snacks monday, january 30th, 2012 crispy quinoa, lime and chipotle-crusted chicken strips after the major holidays, super bowl sunday might just be one of the  greatest food events of the year.
almond-crusted chevre and grape truffles this is a deceptively simple  make ahead hors d’oeuvre or a great activity for an interactive party.
an equal amount of white  chocolate can be substituted in this recipe, if desired.
serve them when you bring out the tea and coffee.
iron skillet chocolate chip cookie a classic favourite cookie gets a  grown-up makeover with a new cooking surface and some sophisticated salt.
no comments avocado mango salsa, beer pizza, chicken fingers, healthy, nachos, quinoa, snacks, super bowl, whole wheat nachos, whole wheat pizza strawberry tiramisu you’ve made your healthy resolutions for 2012, and now you just need a little help sticking to them?
oatmeal cranberry flaxseed cookies these tasty and healthy cookies are a real favourite with the kids!
cinnamon apple chips crisp, oven baked apple chips with a hint of  cinnamon-y-sweetness offer a nutritious solution for snack time.
the  result is a gooey and soft middle with crispy bottom and edges.
this isn’t the coconut macaroon many  people are familiar with.
strawberry tiramisu creamy and velvety, this spinoff of the famous  italian tiramisu is less fattening, easier to make and sure to be a hit!
make your own spooky halloween cake pops!
keep cooked quinoa available in the fridge for extra quick meal prep.
sprinkle it over popcorn and  place it on the snack table next to the taco mexican mix for another delicious  snack.
avocado mango salsa homemade whole wheat and beer pizza this pizza has been known to  disappear off plates in seconds.
no comments appetizers, baked brie, chevre truffles, cupcakes, easy, make-ahead, mini cakes, oscar party, oscars, pizza, snacks, sweet potato soup crispy quinoa, lime and chipotle-crusted chicken strips
not sure what to  do with the left over taco seasoning you have?
it’s a substantial nibble, think traditional cheese platter with fruits  and almonds, all in one bite!
confetti meringues jane’s killer chocolate cookies you truly cannot get much more  chocolate into a single cookie.
bacon, caramelized onion and rosemary pizza with blue cheese sliced  into squares or slivers, this is a great party appetizer.
confetti meringues perfect for a party!
raspberry almond macarons
20 minute supper club is becoming a part of canadian family!
crispy quinoa, lime and chipotle-crusted chicken fingers think outside  the usual quinoa salad box and this fabulous ancient grain can offer endless  recipe possibilities.
within coming weeks, 20 minute supper club will  become a part ofcanadianfamily.ca!
plus, when you make it at home, you get to control how much  sodium goes in.
no comments cheese cookies, chocolate pretzels, movie night, oven potato chips, rosemary potato chips, snack mix, snacks, spiced almonds almond butter cookies we love cookies.
even if you’re not a football fan, the food alone is enough to get anyone excited about the game.
it’s also a good  excuse to try new recipes that speak to the glamour of the evening—skip  the nachos and wings (unless you love them) and try some decidedly fancier fare.
it’s also a good excuse to try new recipes that speak to the glamour of the evening—skip the nachos and wings (unless you love them) and try some decidedly fancier fare.
keep cooked quinoa available in the fridge for extra  quick meal prep.
not all of these are lower in fat, but they all deliver more health per serving, whether it be whole wheat ingredients, more protein, more healthy fats or less sodium than their store-bought cousins.
plus, when you make it at home, you get to control how much sodium goes in.
baked mushroom-topped brie prepare and chill the mushroom topping to have on hand for the big night.
little spring cakes filled with fruit, these little individual cakes are the perfect addition to a party spread for those who like a little sweet at the end of an evening.
baked mushroom-topped brie prepare and chill the mushroom topping to  have on hand for the big night.
chicken wings, nachos with cheese sauce, pizza, beer… it’s not exactly a healthfest.
sweet "puppy chow" chocolate surprise muffins make these rich chocolate surprise muffins packed with zucchini as a special treat.
here are our top movie-night snack foods: cheese and seed savoury cookies these savory cookies, perfect for any  time of day, are so delicious they won’t last long!
chocolate-dipped pretzel rods chocolate dipped pretzel rods chocolate covered pretzels are hard for  many to resist.
but you can lighten up some  super bowl favourites with these delicious options.
2012 baked mushroom-topped brie the oscars are this weekend, and whether you’re a movie buff or not,  the awards show is always a good excuse for a party.
taco mexican snack mix
not all of these are lower  in fat, but they all deliver more health per serving, whether it be whole wheat  ingredients, more protein, more healthy fats or less sodium than their  store-bought cousins.
sweet “puppy chow” snack mix
oatmeal cranberry flaxseed cookies these tasty and healthy cookies are  a real favourite with the kids!
cookbook review: poor girl gourmet (2)
this snack mix is a nutritious  take on the sweet party mix often referred to as “puppy chow.”
rosemary oven-roasted potato chips get creative and enjoy making your own batch of delicious rosemary potato chips.
not sure what to do with the left over taco seasoning you have?
they’re good to pack in lunches, good at tea time,  good for a snack and good for the soul.
sprinkle it over popcorn and place it on the snack table next to the taco mexican mix for another delicious snack.
no comments apple chips, chocolate zucchini muffins, desserts, healthy, puppy chow, resolutions, snack mix, snacks, strawberry tiramisu cheese and seed savoury cookies a new study has proven what most of have known for years: cold weather can make you want to curl up indoors with a great movie (particularlyromantic comedies).
this version is sealed with a rich,  pink, raspberry-flavoured buttercream.
crispy quinoa, lime and chipotle-crusted chicken fingers think outside the usual quinoa salad box and this fabulous ancient grain can offer endless recipe possibilities.
here are six tasty treats that you can serve to keep your guests satisfied from the red carpet coverage all the way to the best picture announcement.
whether you’re into the classics (chocolate chip, oatmeal, etc.,) or are looking to try something new (potato chips and pecans?), try one of our eight favourite cookies below.
the result is a gooey and soft middle with crispy bottom and edges.
spiced chocolate almonds serve these spicy delicious almonds alone, or mix them with 2 to 3 cups of popcorn.
with  less butter, less sugar and more fibre and antioxidants, this version  doesn’t have to be reserved just for parties.
almond-crusted chevre and grape truffles this is a deceptively simple make ahead hors d’oeuvre or a great activity for an interactive party.
with less butter, less sugar and more fibre and antioxidants, this version doesn’t have to be reserved just for parties.
potato chip pecan crunch cookies don’t tell anyone there are  crushed potato chips in the mix so that all they will care about is the buttery  goodness.
here are six tasty treats that you can serve to keep your guests satisfied  from the red carpet coverage all the way to the best picture announcement.
serve with sliced baguette or your favourite  crackers.
these muffins are as healthy as they are decadent.
an equal amount of white chocolate can be substituted in this recipe, if desired.
here are four sweet treats you can make, serve and enjoy without any guilt  attached.
homemade pickles are easier than you think (2)
strawberry tiramisu creamy and velvety, this spinoff of the famous italian tiramisu is less fattening, easier to make and sure to be a hit!
delicious with chicken or fish, or on its own with soft corn  tortillas.
no comments almond cookies, chocolate cookies, cookies, desserts, flaxseed cookies, iron skillet chocolate chip cookies, macarons, meringues, no-bake cookies, pecan cookies, potato chip cookies, snacks winner, best e-newsletter 2010 copas take a master class with acclaimed film director guillermo del toro extra, extra: fancy eats at pearson, fancy words about rob ford weekender: nfb movies, a theatre fest, and the titanic’s final meal to keep you busy this weekend
update: hachette, simon & schuster, harpercollins to modify agency agreements in u.s. canadian mint issues new glow-in-the-dark dino quarter 5 amazing almond sweets hot dates: manhattan transfer must-have products for gorgeous wedding day
be creative with your toppings and use  what’s in your fridge.
baking and serving on oven-proof platter keeps  the cheese warm while eating.
no comments avocado mango salsa, beer pizza, chicken fingers, healthy,  nachos, quinoa, snacks, super bowl, whole wheat nachos, whole wheat pizza 4 resolution-approved sweets thursday, january 12th, 2012 strawberry tiramisu you’ve made your healthy resolutions for 2012, and now you just need  a little help sticking to them?
instead, it’s a lovely, light-as-a-feather  french sandwich cookie, which starts with puffy wafers of ground almonds,  confectioners’ sugar and egg white.
no comments almond cookies, chocolate cookies, cookies, desserts,  flaxseed cookies, iron skillet chocolate chip cookies, macarons, meringues,  no-bake cookies, pecan cookies, potato chip cookies, snacks « older  entries subscribe to new posts via rss follow us on twitter for more food ideas top posts 8 amazing muffins for breakfast taste sensation: split-pea soup with montreal smoked meat how to boil the perfect egg nutritional labels for dummies how to boil the perfect egg (3) butcher primer part 1: a cut above the rest (2)
it’s a substantial nibble, think traditional cheese platter with fruits and almonds, all in one bite!
chocolate-dipped pretzel rods chocolate dipped pretzel rods chocolate covered pretzels are hard for many to resist.