then, at some point–gasp!–ilost the recipe.
quick and easy meals may raise the eyebrows of food snobs, but  the bottomline is: rachael ray and jamie oliver bring people to the kitchen.
however, i’m going to tough it out and fight my odds through the years.
i was  shameless and guiltless in my 5 foot frame and in the 90-pound mark then.
i like wrapping, period.
this sweet and healthy snack is easy to do, all you need are: 1 medium sweet potato 2 tablespoons of melted butter 2 t0 3 tablespoons of brown or demerara sugar (depending on how  sugary you want it to be) 2 sheets of phyllo dough.
you can make it party-ready by using the smooth edge of a table knife to  scrape and smooth the cheesecake.
however, what kind of food blogger am i if, after  all the testing and perfecting, i don’t share it?
my assignment was to create an original entree recipe using, yes, beef!
tags: baking and confections, cakes, cheesecake, cooking, food, home, shopping, springform pan can you have a good cheesecake with just little sugar and no eggs?
i would have these gold foil-wrapped chocolates in my school bag and the pocket of my school uniform.
this isn't your usual chili.
my approach to food is romantic  at its very core.
the asian ferrero rocher posted on 05 february 2010.
at some point i did learn to restrain myself…sometimes.
i was the one family members would silently  worry about because i had no interest in spending time in the kitchen.
[never do that, promise me, please.]
not the mcd kind or the pizza kind.
and then there’s the leftover ricotta from my crumb cake baking, plus a lonely shallot bulb.
you see, there’s a bit of a phyllo-mena here  in the household.
i’ve been on a filo kick lately because they are so darn handy with food, be it sweet or savory, snack or main meal.
add back the pepper and onions and toss with the meat for a few seconds  before transferring onto a serving plate.
simple food can be satisfying, you just have to be willing to try.
our family friend,tita thess (go check her  out, she makes gorgeous bead jewelry) even asked for the recipe many moons ago,
it’s now my new favorite chili.
and it’s easy to solve by keeping your hands and work surface generously floured.
for every medium size sweet potato you can double this recipe, just use the 2 butter, 2 (or 3) sugar 2 phyllo  ratio and you’ll be fine.
i loved this experiment so much that i’m going to make more over the weekend.
yes, this is the actual photo i took of the 2nd dish i cooked, back in october 2, 2006 (thanks to flickr and my blog archive, i don't have to commit everything to memory).
it’s a  perfectly sane idea to keep a box or two in the freezer, just as you would do  for butter.
posted in healthier choices, original gourmeted recipe, quick & easy,  vegetables7 comments light and super creamy no-bake cheesecake posted on 28 march 2010.
however, these are the things in life you  just have to be grown up about and deal with–so i did.
when i discovered nutella, it was like manna for my insatiable chocolate-loving  young palate and definitely a much cheaper option than ferrero rocher.
and then the third: melts-in-your-mouth no-bake cheesecake.
and bake for 10 minutes in an oven preheated to 400°f.
i would  eat it mindlessly by the big spoonfuls (prior to nutella, i consumed jar after  jar of extra creamy peanut butter!).
you can’t really figure it out, but it’s there.
i know that too well having been cooking-challenged for  most of my life.
it’s odd how recipes start out in my head.
eat as is, with rice, quinoa, or with  cooked steel cut oats and top with some fried-till-crisp pancetta or bacon for  flavor.
i want something i could fix asap without having to fret over ingredients i’m missing.
exasperating to say the least.
heaven for the weary.
[the name of the dish  still make me cringe].
ms. i-don’t-cook, i am no more.
(some do, if only for the methods, and i will happily oblige at the end of this  post.)
continue reading posted in chocolate, dessert, experiments, original gourmeted recipe, sweets 24 comments “healthier” ultimate brownies posted on 02 december 2009.
goldilocks is a well-known institution of baked goods and  pastries in the philippines.
sometime between my teenage years and our move to canada, there was a cheesecake void in our household, we all got busy and us kids moved cities away for high school and university.
i can’t imagine what it must be  like for parents who both work and have kids, and no sitter.
nutella on crack — as in, nutella made with more  hazelnuts!
a creamy and refreshing hearty chili.
how i did each piece: cut the sweet potato into wedges or a-little-fatter-than-fries size (half  an inch x a quarter inch is perfect) and place in a bowl.
say  hello to our family’s lifelong addiction: the no-bake cheesecake.
the cake is light, fluffy, and soft, and the icing is a luscious combination of extra smooth coffee and cocoa, buttery but not greasy.
the stickiness is the tricky part
[never do  that, promise me, please.]
signed, sealed, posted, it's yours to enjoy.
when you’re a kid, you get a lot of things for free, with a smile, too.
there was no  trace of it.
after testing it, i realized that won’t fly on a regular weekday meal; not even on a weekend.
i’m looking at my notes on  my calendar (yes, i know) and it was still back in the beginning of february.
this will be a fun valentine’s treat for friends, family and lovahs.
food is not only physical nourishment, but a body of more  than the sum of all its ingredients–with it comes conversation, momentous  occasions, a time to pause and relax, a wink, a smile…memories!
and then, there are so many people who don’t know where or how to begin cooking.
wrapping means surprises, and i sure do love those.
most of them have given up asking me about it.
tags: baking and confections, cakes, cheesecake,  cooking, food, home, shopping, springform pan can you have a good cheesecake with just little sugar and no eggs?
but it turns out i never sent it to her.
a lot of us in the online food blogging circles take the time to  cook, because first and foremost,we already love to cook.
cooking steel cut oats (also called irish or coarse-cut  oats) as a stand-in for rice: place 1/2 cup of steel cut oats  with 1 cup of water in a small pot and cook in med-high heat.
[the name of the dish still make me cringe].
the cake is light, fluffy, and soft, and the icing is a luscious  combination of extra smooth coffee and cocoa, buttery but not greasy.
this halloween snack was borne out of necessity almost.
the kitchen and i, we’re like  bread and butter now.
slice diagonally, about a third to a  quarter of a centimeter in thickness.
add 3 more, evaporating in between additions.
after experimenting with one idea after another, and eating one mistake after another (yes, i end up with disappointing meals, too!), i took several deep breaths…
it was too good to be true and i can tell you that i got teary eyed on the final tasting of the buttercream after tweaking the flavors.
i just can be so dedicated to finding a “solution” to my problem that i will not stop until everything is resolved — in this case, until the taste, texture and consistency is correct.
you can add flavors as you wish.
people need to start somewhere, and if these two can bring people home from the takeout/drive-thru line and out with their pots in front of their stoves and to the dining tables, then so be it.
i have to constantly remind myself when i write and post recipes that, not everyone is like me.
i’m sure you’ve had that.
the thought of cooking anything that does not provoke victorious gasps among meal partakers was just too much to bear.
here’s the “un-recipe” for 2 vegetarian loving  eaters, or 3 to 4 people enjoying this as a side dish: for the asparagus: wash about 450 grams of medium  asparagus spears to make 2 cups, sliced.
say hello to our family’s lifelong addiction: the no-bake cheesecake.
once it boils,  lower the heat to medium-low and cook for about 10 minutes or more, until you  reach the doneness you prefer (i like it really chewy).
phyllo ratio and you’ll be fine.
it’s a perfectly sane idea to keep a box or two in the freezer, just as you would do for butter.
they become limp  faster than burn my mouth from fresh-out-of-the-oven sweet potatoes.
i’m much more confident in my cooking these days, and can make something out of whatever is available.
food can be that good.
the newness of 2011 has worn out and although the thrill ride of the holidays is definitely tucked beneath shadows of gift wrappers past, i couldn’t be more excited to finally let you know what’s been cooking up in my kitchen!
these days, i don’t want to think about that, but i still want to a slice of mocha cake or two with my cup of coffee.
add water by the tablespoons if needed.
yes, this is the actual photo i took of the 2nd dish i cooked, back in  october 2, 2006 (thanks to flickr and my blog archive, i don't have to commit  everything to memory).
i’ll tell you why: i’ve wanted to be able to make all the gifts i’ll be giving for christmas for the longest time and ithink this year it’s finally going to happen.
my family declared it identical to (and even better than) goldilocks.
and let’s just say that my weight is pretty much indicative of the amount  of cheesecake i’ve consumed to reach until march to get the recipe right.
that pretty much defeats my purpose for this site.
part of the reason for that was becausecooking was not only a daunting chore , i was also afraid of the judgments to be made with the way i cook and the end product of my rare culinary attempt.
i was curious to find out which company or organization we will be working with and what “secret ingredient” participants will be asked to use for the recipes.
i’m not trying to make people cook or bake if they really don’t want to.
we even had to come up with our own recipe!
creamy, crunchy, and chewy nutty nutella mochi (mochi = sticky rice  cake) is like an asian version of one of my guilty-pleasure chocolate, ferrero
the flavor is full, but i didn’t like the taste to lose its novelty, so let’s add a burst of freshness from cilantro.
what if, with careful manipulation of the ingredients, i can make this north american favorite with an asian twist?
can it be smooth and creamy, and melts in your mouth and before you could even think, you’ve already reached for your next bite?
i decided on some chili.
i speed dial the pizza place.
at some point i did learn to restrain  myself…sometimes.
read all about my nut-free macaron (mis)adventures over at shulie ‘s and find out what i used to naturally color the white chocolate ganache.
i’ve been on a filo kick lately because they are so  darn handy with food, be it sweet or savory, snack or main meal.
and there you have it, one mummy!
recently, she and jamie oliver have been called out in this article as  advertising and marketing “on behalf of the processed food industry. ”
[either that, or betty's sans rival.]
the recipe can be made into a two-layer 9-inch round cake or a roll.
someone who loves to cook take joy in even talking about food, while someone who doesn’t would think the food lover needs to shut up about the juicy, garden fresh tomatoes already.
i got the recipe for the crust right the 1st try, but the cake was lumpy  because of the difference in temperature between the dissolved gelatin and the  cream cheese mixture.
jamie’s food revolution has stirred interest in the school lunches of  america, and the way people eat in general.
several weeks ago she informed me there will be anall-canadian kitchen play event …and would i want to join?
fold each phyllo strip in half, lengthwise, and wrap around each piece of sweet potato.
in between moving and traveling, and not being in the kitchen much, the recipe was gone.
food is not only physical nourishment, but a body of more than the sum of all its ingredients–with it comes conversation, momentous occasions, a time to pause and relax, a wink, a smile…memories!
it is with glee that i will participate in world nutella day (hosted by these lovelies:ms adventures in italy, bleeding espresso, and world nutella day ) with this japanese-inspired treat: i’ve always wanted to make stuffed mochi (addendum: i grew up with mochi or sticky rice cake, but we just call them by different names in the philippines), so i thought i’d combine that with nutella.
happy world nutella day and happy friday!
it helps that another batch of  cake is requested before the current one gets eaten, so i don’t have to  bury my face in mocha cake.
so here it is, one item off my to-cook-and-bake-from-scratch list: this was my sister-in-law's birthday cake.
chili con coco loco?
unfortunately, my mom doesn’t have the recipe anymore.
after a busy day, there’s nothing more that i want than fast food.
on the second try, the cheesecake tasted better (still not perfect), but  the texture was smoother.
i got insanely lucky on my  first try of the series and the flavor and texture wasright on.
the past summer, shulie, asked me if i would be interested in contributing to thetree nut-free macaron series she’s hosting on her website,food wanderings.
back in university, whenever i felt down, all i needed was a quick jeepney  ride tophilcoa to order a half roll of mocha cake and — gasp  — finish most of it myself.
i wanted to create something that’s different from the norm, but still hopefully a dish that everyone can enjoy.
get the recipe for the no-bake cheesecake now!
even though i can easily go to their vancouver  location to get mymocha cake fix, i’ve always dreamed of baking a copycat  so i can enjoy it anytime at home and knowing the ingredients in the cake
i speed  dial the pizza place.
i loved this experiment so much that i’m going to make more over the  weekend.
saute asparagus for a few minutes until the bottom of the pan is almost dry.
one cake is just not enough.
good-bye to the days of  subsisting solely on someone else’s cooking, or making reservations for  dinner so i can have mycrème brulée fix.
get the recipe for asian style beef chili with garlic fried rice posted in asian dish, beef, events, original gourmeted recipe12 comments posted on 28 january 2011.
here’s the “un-recipe” for 2 vegetarian loving eaters, or 3 to 4 people enjoying this as a side dish: for the asparagus: wash about 450 grams of medium asparagus spears to make 2 cups, sliced.
i’ve never tried to substitute it with anything, so i cannot advise you on that for now.
these  days, i don’t want to think about that, but i still want to a slice of  mocha cake or two with my cup of coffee.
i grew up with good food and family and household help who cook, and i was lucky enough to have learned the basics in school, and we even had meal-planning as part of our home economics subject.
a lot of us in the online food blogging circles take the time to cook, because first and foremost,we already love to cook.
(some do, if only for the methods, and i will happily oblige at the end of this post.)
i used to be hooked on ferrero rocher as a child.
try any recipe for this month’s kitchen play — go crazy and put your own twist!– for a chance to win $100 from canadian beef.
get some inspiration from them this halloween season — trust  me, they have lots of wonderful stuff for you!
however, these are the things in life you just have to be grown up about and deal with–so i did.
heather (travis), the beef information center‘s director of public relations, told me that they are open to any and all ideas.
it was actually quite good, now that i looked at my blog entry then (not here).i enjoyed it so much that i cooked it again with linguine with sliced beef sausage and ham:
slice diagonally, about a third to a quarter of a centimeter in thickness.
however, the cheesecake held up so well it almost  looked fake, like when you buy cheesecake at a cheap establishment and  it’s almost like buying white jell-o. not good.
to keep the cold away.
if you’re into swiss chard, check this other recipe, too: eggplant & chard lasagne.
these  days, my taste buds (and hips) aren’t too fond of deep fried, but the  fact remains that i have never successfully baked sweet potato fries or wedges
food  can be that good.
can  it be smooth and creamy, and melts in your mouth and before you could even  think, you’ve already reached for your next bite?
here are the ingredients of the two versions, side by side: download the original recipe: download the healthier recipe: posted in articles, baking, chocolate, healthier choices, original gourmeted recipe, snacks, sweets9 comments
my anxiousness beefed up (hah!)
university was a cooking write-off, limited to a  one-range stove to make breakfast, boil water for ramen, re-heat take-out, and  make the occasionalleche flan.
posted in appetizer, baking, experiments, healthier choices, original  gourmeted recipe, snacks6 comments mocha cake ala goldilocks posted on 13 october 2010.
it was..drum roll…rachel ray’s “you won’t be single for long vodka cream pasta”
our family friend,tita thess (go check her out, she makes gorgeous bead jewelry) even asked for the recipe many moons ago, but it turns out i never sent it to her.
and there  you have it, one mummy!
there are a couple of things you might not expect in this chili, but trust me, they make it so good.
heat oil on medium high and saute peppers for 2 mins.
nutella on crack — as in, nutella made with more hazelnuts!
and it took rachel ray to inspire me to get out of my (non-cooking)
i wouldn’t see you eye to eye.
and i made it again and again.
finally in september 2006, i found the very first recipe in my twenty-something adult life that, for some crazy reason, made me try cooking.
unfortunately, my mom  doesn’t have the recipe anymore.
it's inspired by rachel ray's "you won't be single for long vodka cream pasta."
i foresee simple meals until the end of christmas.
i would love for people to appreciate good  food, if not love it.
the good news is, the crunch of the phyllo stays for hours.
i  grew  up with good food and family and household help who cook, and i was lucky  enough to have learned the basics in school, and we even had meal-planning as  part of our home economics subject.
i typically cook it like this when i am going to eat it for something savory.
this sweet and healthy snack is easy to do, all you need are: you can double this recipe, just use the 2 butter, 2 (or 3) sugar 2
i’ve never tried to substitute it with anything,  so i cannot advise you on that for now.
thank you again to our sponsor, canadian beef, and kitchen play for letting us “play” in the kitchen to bring you new ways to enjoy beef in your meals.
and it doesn’t have to be complicated, such as  asparagus with steel cut oats.
i’m talking about sliced asparagus topped with fried pancetta, on a bed of steel cut oats.
in medium heat, melt a tablespoon of unsalted butter in a large frying pan until froth starts to turn brown.
this will be a fun valentine’s treat for friends, family and  lovahs.
yes, that is a lesson for myself as well.
put in the freezer again to set.
people underestimate the value of their taste buds and instincts in the kitchen.
casey, the talented force behind kitchen play , organizes monthly events that bring bloggers and pr professionals together — in the name of food and all things food-related.
when i discovered nutella, it was like manna for my insatiable chocolate-loving young palate and definitely a much cheaper option than ferrero rocher.
this is  also perfect for those who don’t like the heaviness of regular  cheesecake.
deep fried sweet potatoes with sugar were my favorite after-school snack, an indulgence i get 8 times out of ten when i beg our helpers to make them forme us.
add 3 more, evaporating in between  additions.
for the longest time, i’ve put off creating a recipe from scratch to replicate my mom’s
there were still fresh pasta and prosciutto from my last trip to granville island, and a bunch of almost- forgotten swiss chard that commanded attention or they will take a direct trip to the food scrap recycling bin.
it’s very easy to make and lots of fun!
and i made it  again and again.
posted in appetizer, baking, experiments, healthier choices, original gourmeted recipe, snacks6 comments posted on 13 october 2010.
you  can’t push it, but you’ll just have to try and it’s not a  chore for you because it’s something you love to do.
you can make it party-ready by using the smooth edge of a table knife to scrape and smooth the cheesecake.
i love the cute side of mummies.
creamy, crunchy, and chewy nutty nutella mochi (mochi = sticky rice cake) is like an asian version of one of my guilty-pleasure chocolate, ferrero rocher.
i think everyone in our family will  agree –that was gut-wrenchingly sad.
transfer to a  plate.
nutella lovers — you know what i mean, right?
i’m not trying to make people cook or bake if  they really don’t want to.
how hard could it be to come up with our “holy  grail” recipe?
you will also need amaretto, an italian almond liqueur to finish off the flavor and must not be skipped.
:-) as i sit back and relax, and enjoy a full belly of chili goodness, i hope you’ll try it.
wheels started turning and one of my initial recipes consisted of tender cuts, but quite expensive.
in fact, i’ve been asked not to post it on the blog because it really does taste like the real thing.
it doesn’t take a magician or a day of labor.
try to feed someone some good, simple, home-cooked meals and at one point or another you could get a conversation going about how easy it is to make and they could make it, too.
you see, there’s a bit of a phyllo-mena here in the household.
both their  recipes can be really quick, but they are a far cry from hungry man and lean  cuisine dinners.
my  mother would spend friday or saturday nights on the dining table after dinner  with her bowls, wooden spoons, stand mixer and springform pan to make  cheesecake.
this is easy to make, and you don’t really need a recipe.
add water by the  tablespoons if needed.
posted in fuss free fridays, beef, original gourmeted recipe, quick &  easy, vegetables1 comment the mummy diaries, part 2: baked sweet booh!tatoes posted on 29 october 2010.
yes, it’s all about the mummies.
just tuck the beginning of the strip by overlapping after the first turn.
it helps that another batch of cake is requested before the current one gets eaten, so i don’t have to bury my face in mocha cake.
then i caught a few episodes of 30-minute meals when it started, when i had food network on all day, like…all day.
if you’re allergic to tree nuts like her son, you’re in good hands — definitely check out the other recipes on her website!
it doesn't look like much right out of the pan, but for our family this  elicits groans with, "put the topping already!"
i would have these gold  foil-wrapped chocolates in my school bag and the pocket of my school uniform.
in fact,  i’ve been asked not to post it on the blog because it really does taste  like the real thing.
posted on 13 october 2011.
finally in september 2006, i found the very first recipe in my  twenty-something adult life that, for some crazy reason, made me try cooking.
it tasted good (not the best–too sweet), but one never should have to associate cheesecake with the word lumpy (=lame).
perhaps you could even say it’s a tad better for indulgences, too.
how hard could it be to come up with our “holy grail” recipe?
the resulting paste is zapped in  the microwave for a couple of minutes and then the wrapping begins!
if you told me 5 years ago that i have to learn cooking for my own good, i  would have brushed you off (and something worse that’s for your  imagination).
you will also need amaretto, an italian almond liqueur to finish off the flavor  and must not be skipped.
maybe…i like to think that.
oven is preheated to 400°f and potato pieces are baked 10 minutes,  turned, then baked for another 15 minutes.
once it boils, lower the heat to medium-low and cook for about 10 minutes or more, until you reach the doneness you prefer (i like it really chewy).
posted in healthier choices, original gourmeted recipe, quick & easy, vegetables7 comments posted on 28 march 2010.
when  you’re a kid, you get a lot of things for free, with a smile, too.
how about a double kick from chipotle chili and sriracha?
i’m talking about sliced asparagus topped with fried  pancetta, on a bed of steel cut oats.
you can also use espresso granules (= coffee taste is bolder and more pronounced) or starbucks via italian roast (=icing has bitter and sour notes), but it’s up to you if you want to use what you have available.
add a tablespoon of water and allow to steam.
i’m looking at my notes on my calendar (yes, i know) and it was still back in the beginning of february.
good-bye to the days of subsisting solely on someone else’s cooking, or making reservations for dinner so i can have mycrème brulée fix.
these were the only things i remembered it had and outlines my starting point: it’s rather vague to say the least.
and it doesn’t have to be complicated, such as asparagus with steel cut oats.
posted in dessert, experiments, nut-free, original gourmeted recipe13 comments posted on 01 february 2011.
then i caught a few episodes of 30-minute meals  when it started, when i had food network on all day, like…all day.
i immediately replied that of course, i would, but admitting that realistically it probably won’t be until fall that i can commit to it.
perhaps you could even say it’s a tad better for indulgences,  too.
or i take some french bread, slice some cheese, rinse  some fruits, open a bottle of wine and call it joy’s awesome dinner.
here are the ingredients of the two versions, side by side: download the original recipe: posted in articles, baking, chocolate, healthier choices, original  gourmeted recipe, snacks, sweets9 comments older entries » cherry blossom festival in vancouver cooking for friends with whitewater cooks with friends shaker lemon pie for pi day triple chocolate cookies with cherries & cashews lemon curd rolls copyright © 2010 gourmeted.com -- words, photos & design archives     faqs     privacy policy     contact
the kitchen and i, we’re like bread and butter now.
and lazy on some days.
was that a chili con coco?
add salt and pepper to taste.
i’ll try making this with almond  extract next time and see if that can be used!
crushed hazelnuts and nutella are combined,  lumped into balls and placed in the freezer to keep its shape when molding the  rice cake around it.
because i like to humour myself, i made a very macaroon-ish macaron, that still tasted like the macaroon, but not quite.
if you know me,i will go there.
what, you don’t do that?
people need to start  somewhere, and if these two can bring people home from the takeout/drive-thru  line and out with their pots in front of their stoves and to the dining tables,  then so be it.
i sure love the different textures when i make it with ground meat and chunks to chew on, and the heartiness a good chili brings.
posted in fuss free fridays, beef, original gourmeted recipe, quick & easy, vegetables1 comment posted on 29 october 2010.
(please refer to the completecontest rules.)
you’ll just have to scroll down and check the recipe!
heat garlic and meat sprinkled with salt and pepper.
i want to spend my time in the kitchen wisely (=quickly), making something that’s good enough to eat and enjoy, but still healthy.
it’s rather vague to say the least.
" i’m much more confident in my cooking these days, and can make  something out of whatever is available.
put in the freezer again to  set.
plus, it’s winter, so i was looking for that element of heat.
enjoy with some pita bread or place over a bed of fresh steamed rice.
uh, what are we going to do now?!
i got insanely lucky on my first try of the series and the flavor and texture wasright on.
but what can i do to it?
goldilocks posted in filipino dishes, baking, coffee buddy, dessert, experiments, original gourmeted recipe164 comments posted on 03 may 2010.
and don’t forget to check what you already have in your kitchen.
i was the one family members would silently worry about because i had no interest in spending time in the kitchen.
ooh, and what is that something else you taste?
the mocha cake from goldilocks defined my love for cakes at an early age.
perhaps, i didn’t have  to hide under the kitchen sink when asked who wasted all the ingredients with  that kind of cooking.
so what are you waiting for?
i’d love to know, so please share them in the comments!
you got yourself some asian ferrero rocher to snack on.
dare i tamper with our ultimate brownies?
[right, i could be crazy.]
i’d  love to know, so please share them in the comments!
enter phyllo dough, which in my book, will always pack a crunch  when you need it!
1/8 teaspoon ground pepper preparation 1.
do check out my fellow ghoulish frighteners in crime on the left sidebar (look for the pumpkin!).
it is so easy to get tunnel vision when you live a certain  lifestyle, are comfortable, and have time to ruminate on the good things in  life, or how you could be less busy to make meals, but… people do get busy.
sorry, this is short and sweet, but i promise you: donuts this weekend!
-joy this is a personal invitation to try another favorite of our family.
these days, my taste buds (and hips) aren’t too fond of deep fried, but the fact remains that i have never successfully baked sweet potato fries or wedges that are crispy on the outside as the deep fried goodness.
and don’t forget,you can join us for this month’s event by cooking along for a chance to win $10o from canadian beef!
for bulkier pieces, wrap them twice with phyllo for that extra crunch and finger-food stability if you’re serving it for a party.
as for today here at gourmeted, i bring you: mummified sweet potatoes!
get some inspiration from them this halloween season — trust me, they have lots of wonderful stuff for you!
and so it is, the first month of the year is almost over.
i managed to whip up a few batches of macarons to test, including my worst macaron experiment to date — it never even made it to the parchment paper.
get the recipe for the mocha cake ala
goldilocks is a well-known institution of baked goods and pastries in the philippines.
add back the pepper and onions and toss with the meat for a few seconds before transferring onto a serving plate.
i just can be so dedicated to finding a “solution” to my problem  that i will not stop until everything is resolved — in this case, until  the taste, texture and consistency is correct.
today, i’m the one who misses cooking at home when i travel.
on the second try, the cheesecake tasted better (still not perfect), but the texture was smoother.
i didn’t even bother to cook, because i (and everyone else)knew i was incapable.
however, given my asian roots and upbringing, i still admittedly look for flavors of home:coconuts, coconut milk, lime (in the philippines we have a citrus called calamansi)… so.
this is also perfect for those who don’t like the heaviness of regular cheesecake.
as much as i cannot stand to watch rachel ray these days,  i used to like her pre-pre-oprah…in her$40 a day days when  extended cable was my friend.
someone who loves to  cook take joy in even talking about food, while someone who doesn’t would  think the food lover needs to shut up about the juicy, garden fresh tomatoes  already.
turn occasionally and cook for 15 to 20 minutes, until all the liquid from the meat is almost gone.
but the methodology was close.
lightly brush half a sheet of phyllo dough with butter, fold, then butter  the exteriors, and cut into 16 strips.
once you get into the groove,  there’s no stopping the mummy production line.
and this could be for a variety of reasons: they  never cooked, they don’t like cooking, they couldn’t care less  about cooking, didn’t grow up around people who cook, etc.
get the recipe for the no-bake  cheesecake now!
anyway, back to the dish.
how i did each piece: cut the sweet potato into wedges or a-little-fatter-than-fries size (half an inch x a quarter inch is perfect) and place in a bowl.
it’s just physically straining to not give in to the craving!
goldilocks posted in filipino dishes, baking, coffee buddy, dessert, experiments,  original gourmeted recipe164 comments steel cut oats with asparagus and the merits of  uncomplicated-yet-still-good meals posted on 03 may 2010.
i can’t imagine what it must be like for parents who both work and have kids, and no sitter.
there would be week-long stove lulls in favor of eating out with friends and  re-heating take-outs, meeting work deadlines or riding over thelazy days.
place on a baking/cookie sheet lined with parchment paper.
the construction is the tricky part, but i was able to do everything under an hour, including the baking time and even while shooting photos.
the thought of cooking  anything that does not provoke victorious gasps among meal partakers was just  too much to bear.
i  don’t have kids, i don’t have any obligation to cook for anyone or  attend to anyone, i work from home, and yet, there would still be days when i  am just too swamped with work, too exhausted, and too famished to cook.
when done right, it makes a world of difference between blah meat and a cleaned out plate that begs for more.
i’m the one gently encouraging to friends and  family to try recipes, because cooking good food could be so veryeasy and  delicious.
crushed hazelnuts and nutella are combined, lumped into balls and placed in the freezer to keep its shape when molding the rice cake around it.
however, the cheesecake held up so well it almost looked fake, like when you buy cheesecake at a cheap establishment and it’s almost like buying white jell-o. not good.
however, this is not the time to go down the beaten path and there is definitely more to beef than grilling steaks!
i typically cook it like this when i am going to eat it  for something savory.
i tweaked the  ingredients until we were all satisfied with the taste.
my approach to food is romantic at its very core.
to get  the authentic taste, you will need to usenescafe coffee granules .
it didn’t quite taste like my mom’s
a little food coloring if you want to make it interesting.
in between moving and traveling, and  not being in the kitchen much, the recipe was gone.
would you like to “play” along with us in the kitchen?
get the recipe for linguine with braised chard and prosciutto posted in fuss free fridays, cheese, experiments, main dishes, original gourmeted recipe, pasta, quick & easy, vegetables3 comments posted on 19 november 2010.
it is so easy to get tunnel vision when you live a certain lifestyle, are comfortable, and have time to ruminate on the good things in life, or how you could be less busy to make meals, but… people do get busy.
wrapping means surprises, and  i sure do love those.
as for today here at gourmeted, i bring you: mummified sweet  potatoes!
eat as is, with rice, quinoa, or with cooked steel cut oats and top with some fried-till-crisp pancetta or bacon for flavor.
steak strips, pepper and onion stir-fry serves 2 to 3 ingredients preparation 1.
university was a cooking write-off, limited to a one-range stove to make breakfast, boil water for ramen, re-heat take-out, and make the occasionalleche flan.
part of  the reason for that was becausecooking was not only a daunting chore , i was also afraid of the judgments to be made with the way i cook and  the end product of my rare culinary attempt.
there would be week-long stove lulls in favor of eating out with friends and re-heating take-outs, meeting work deadlines or riding over thelazy days.
i love wrapping things, especially gifts.
you must think i just bake and eat baked goods all the time with everything that i’ve been posting lately, but i still do cook.
however, what kind of food blogger am i if, after all the testing and perfecting, i don’t share it?
for breakfast, i go with the 1:3 oats to water ratio.
for this main course, the goal was to get that feeling of eating something so good you sit back and unconsciously rub your belly out of happiness and satisfaction.
even though i can easily go to their vancouver location to get mymocha cake fix, i’ve always dreamed of baking a copycat so i can enjoy it anytime at home and knowing the ingredients in the cake i’m eating.
they become limp faster than burn my mouth from fresh-out-of-the-oven sweet potatoes.
i’ll try making this with almond extract next time and see if that can be used!
coconut macaron with white chocolate and lime ganache .
finally, this summer, i set out to do just that.
i don’t have kids, i don’t have any obligation to cook for anyone or attend to anyone, i work from home, and yet, there would still be days when i am just too swamped with work, too exhausted, and too famished to cook.
these were incredibly good and addicting.
it wasn’t until 2002 or 2003 that i discovered (and had the  inclination to make) a no-bake cheesecake recipe online.
it was..drum roll…rachel ray’s “you won’t be  single for long vodka cream pasta”
it’s something you can put together with whatever you have.
for bulkier pieces, wrap them twice with phyllo for that extra crunch and  finger-food stability if you’re serving it for a party.
given a good quality piece of meat, i will just let its amazing flavor and texture dazzle me.
when i was in the midst of my cross-stitching frenzy, i cooked this quick stir-fry of sliced steak with green peppers and onions, eaten over a steaming bed of rice.
it's inspired by rachel ray's "you won't be single
they are perfect together!
use the remaining butter to toss the wedges in.
place onions in the pan and cook for 1 minute and put on another plate.
perhaps, i didn’t have to hide under the kitchen sink when asked who wasted all the ingredients with that kind of cooking.
just to be sure, i’ve  baked it numerous times since that first time.
it is with glee that i will participate in world nutella day (hosted by  these lovelies:ms adventures in italy, bleeding espresso, and world nutella day ) with this japanese-inspired  treat: i’ve always wanted to make stuffed mochi (addendum: i grew  up with mochi or sticky rice cake, but we just call them by different names in  the philippines), so i thought i’d combine that with nutella.
my  family declared it identical to (and even better than) goldilocks.
i progressed from a kitchen miser because of an inspiration.
and this could be for a variety of reasons: they never cooked, they don’t like cooking, they couldn’t care less about cooking, didn’t grow up around people who cook, etc.
that are crispy on the outside as the deep fried goodness.
if you told me 5 years ago that i have to learn cooking for my own good, i would have brushed you off (and something worse that’s for your imagination).
it’s very easy to make.
turn each piece, exposing the caramel-y side and bake for another 15  minutes.
i  have to constantly remind myself when i write and post recipes that, not  everyone is like me.
the rice cake is a combination of glutinous (sweet) rice  flour, water and a little sugar.
oven is preheated to 400°f and potato pieces are baked 10 minutes, turned, then baked for another 15 minutes.
the pantry and fridge supplies my cooking notes, and sometimes we orchestrate some magic.
and then, there are so many people who don’t know where or  how to begin cooking.
it’s a vegetarian dish that has a good chance of winning the meat lovers over.
i used to avoid cooking at all costs.
i’m not organized enough to have my market loot assigned into dishes and menus, so this is a regular plight:get available and/or in-season ingredients and figure it out in the kitchen later.
recently, she and jamie oliver have been called out in this article as advertising and marketing “on behalf of the processed food industry. ”
deep fried sweet  potatoes with sugar were my favorite after-school snack, an indulgence i get 8  times out of ten when i beg our helpers to make them forme us.
and i’m back for more #greathallowtweet.
who needs a recipe for something as easy as that?
my mother would spend friday or saturday nights on the dining table after dinner with her bowls, wooden spoons, stand mixer and springform pan to make cheesecake.
tuck the end underneath the strip looping before it.
i’ll also take grilled wine-marinated top blade steaks.
[thanks so much, shulie!] fast forward to our thanksgiving month here in canada.
in medium heat, melt a tablespoon of  unsalted butter in a large frying pan until froth starts to turn brown.
these were the  only things i remembered it had and outlines my starting point: 2 8-ounce packages of cream cheese some amount of sour cream some amount of knox unflavoured gelatin graham crackers butter lemon zest (god…that lemon zest that i would forever associate  with cheesecake!)
i would eat it mindlessly by the big spoonfuls (prior to nutella, i consumed jar after jar of extra creamy peanut butter!).
so below is a “guideline” to create your own recipe.
enter phyllo dough, which in my book, will always pack a crunch when you need it!
she assured me that october would be fine.
i wanted that feeling from my dish.
what cake do i want for my birthday?goldilocks mocha cake please!
jamie’s food revolution has stirred interest in the school lunches of america, and the way people eat in general.
it doesn't look like much right out of the pan, but for our family this elicits groans with, "put the topping already!"
you can also use espresso granules (= coffee taste is bolder and  more pronounced) or starbucks via italian roast (=icing has bitter and sour  notes), but it’s up to you if you want to use what you have available.
cooking and baking relax me, like meditative symphonies, and the outcome is something that others can enjoy–everyone’s happy.
(pdf download included) posted in cakes, coffee buddy, dessert, experiments, original gourmeted  recipe5 comments nutty nutella mochi:
just a little push would do.
finish it off with warm garlic rice.
i didn’t even bother to cook, because i (and everyone  else)knew
once you get into the groove, there’s no stopping the mummy production line.
continue reading posted in chocolate, dessert, experiments, original gourmeted recipe, sweets 24 comments posted on 02 december 2009.
of course, whenever i make that decision, things happen.
no-bake cheesecake because a) it’s so time-consuming to get the combination; and b) i almost had it
both their recipes can be really quick, but they are a far cry from hungry man and lean cuisine dinners.
there was no trace of it.
i would love for people to appreciate good food, if not love it.
it was a drag then, i admit.
of course, not every meal could bring butterflies in your stomach or be  imprinted on your mind, but it can be enjoyed…alone, with company, to  celebrate something, to banish a bad day, or seal a good one.
back in university, whenever i felt down, all i needed was a quick jeepney ride tophilcoa to order a half roll of mocha cake and — gasp — finish most of it myself.
the rice cake is a combination of glutinous (sweet) rice flour, water and a little sugar.
i like wrapping food in crunch.
turn each piece, exposing the caramel-y side and bake for another 15 minutes.
i like  wrapping food in crunch.
do check out my  fellow ghoulish frighteners in crime on the left sidebar (look for the  pumpkin!).
it was too  good to be true and i can tell you that i got teary eyed on the final tasting  of the buttercream after tweaking the flavors.
cooking and baking relax me, like meditative symphonies,  and the outcome is something that others can enjoy–everyone’s happy.
i was shameless and guiltless in my 5 foot frame and in the 90-pound mark then.
a few days later, she revealed that we would be sponsored by no other thanthe canadian beef (www.beefinfo.org).
beef goes really well with coconut milk, which goes hand in hand with chili.
i got the recipe for the crust right the 1st try, but the cake was lumpy because of the difference in temperature between the dissolved gelatin and the cream cheese mixture.
sometime between my teenage years and our move to canada, there was a  cheesecake void in our household, we all got busy and us kids moved cities away  for high school and university.
i’ve included instructions for the roll in the recipenotes if you want to  take a stab at it.
just to be sure, i’ve baked it numerous times since that first time.
hop on over to craftzine for my guest post about the  “healthier” version!
(pdf download included) posted in cakes, coffee buddy, dessert, experiments, original gourmeted recipe5 comments posted on 05 february 2010.
do you have any favorite dishes that require no recipes?
i would bet a hundred dollars that when my friends and family see this, they won’t actually believe they’re readingsomething new on my site.
sprinkle or rub each strip with sugar.
it was actually quite good, now that i looked at my blog  entry then (not here).i enjoyed it so much that i cooked it again with  linguine with sliced beef sausage and ham:
the truth is, for the longest time i thought cheesecake was only made using my mom’s no-bake method.
lightly brush half a sheet of phyllo dough with butter, fold, then butter the exteriors, and cut into 16 strips.
it is as good as it looks.
the resulting paste is zapped in the microwave for a couple of minutes and then the wrapping begins!
for the longest time, i’ve put off creating a recipe from scratch to  replicate my mom’s no-bake cheesecake because a) it’s so  time-consuming to get the combination; and b) i almost had it
while i waited for more details from casey.
goodness, do i sound drunk from sweet potatoes?
the truth is, i would have filet mignon with salt and pepper cooked medium rare with some sizzling butter and sauteed mushrooms on a regular basis .
it didn’t quite  taste like my mom’s
for long vodka cream pasta.
[i won't name any names...
to get the authentic taste, you will need to usenescafe coffee granules .
i’m the one gently encouraging to friends and family to try recipes, because cooking good food could be so veryeasy and delicious.
saute  asparagus for a few minutes until the bottom of the pan is almost dry.
fold each phyllo strip in half, lengthwise, and wrap around each piece of  sweet potato.
i progressed from a kitchen miser  because of an inspiration.
as much as i cannot stand to watch rachel ray these days, i used to like her pre-pre-oprah…in her$40 a day days when extended cable was my friend.
you can’t push it, but you’ll just have to try and it’s not a chore for you because it’s something you love to do.
i would go so far as to eat it with coconut garlic rice.
it’s still a macaron.
i’ve included instructions for the roll in the recipenotes if you want to take a stab at it.
it wasn’t until 2002 or 2003 that i discovered (and had the inclination to make) a no-bake cheesecake recipe online.
quick and easy meals may raise the eyebrows of food snobs, but the bottomline is: rachael ray and jamie oliver bring people to the kitchen.
and it’s easy to solve by keeping  your hands and work surface generously floured.
turn occasionally  and cook for 15 to 20 minutes, until all the liquid from the meat is almost  gone.
a little food coloring if you want to make it  interesting.
jamie, for one, has promoted real food for the longest time.
and let’s just say that my weight is pretty much indicative of the amount of cheesecake i’ve consumed to reach until march to get the recipe right.
do i dare put coconut milk in my chili?
people underestimate the value of their taste buds and instincts in  the kitchen.
of course, not every meal could bring butterflies in your stomach or be imprinted on your mind, but it can be enjoyed…alone, with company, to celebrate something, to banish a bad day, or seal a good one.
today, i’m the one who misses cooking  at home when i travel.
i know that too well having been cooking-challenged for most of my life.
try to feed someone some good, simple, home-cooked meals and  at one point or another you could get a conversation going about how easy it is  to make and they could make it, too.
i tweaked the ingredients until we were all satisfied with the taste.
enjoy with some pita bread or place  over a bed of fresh steamed rice.
i mean, cutting out the part where i drink wine is eating healthier, right?
or i take some french bread, slice some cheese, rinse some fruits, open a bottle of wine and call it joy’s awesome dinner.
the truth is, for the longest time i thought cheesecake was only  made using my mom’s no-bake method.
i found a workaround so that i still had my craving for toasted coconuts satisfied in macaron form.
this one will be added to my pile of go-to quick food, with the greens adapted to what’s in season or easily available.
no-bake cheesecake and our family goes way, way back in the 80′s.
i think everyone in our family will agree –that was gut-wrenchingly sad.
cooking steel cut oats (also called irish or coarse-cut oats) as a stand-in for rice: place 1/2 cup of steel cut oats with 1 cup of water in a small pot and cook in med-high heat.
it’s only this year that i really appreciated the fact that the canadian thanksgiving is in october, i have to say.
then, at some  point–gasp!–ilost the recipe.
i’ll be sewing and baking like there’s no tomorrow.
the construction  is the tricky part, but i was able to do everything under an hour, including  the baking time and even while shooting photos.
the tine of a fork could help, too.
add a  tablespoon of water and allow to steam.
it tasted good (not the best–too sweet), but one  never should have to associate cheesecake with the word lumpy (=lame).
that pretty much  defeats my purpose for this site.
it really does give me more time to prepare for christmas, even though i’m still trying to catch my breath and hoping i make all my deadlines.