take advantage  of these small ways to save big: choose fruits and veggies that are in season, when they're cheaper.
with a  few small changes, you may find savings that brighten your day instead of  lighten your wallet.
pack lunch in a reusable container.
rotate locations so no one  person is always stuck with clean-up.
save half of your dinner for lunch the next day  — your waistlineand your wallet will thank you.
a  russet or sweet potato can turn into delicious home-baked french fries for as  little as $.75 per medium potato.
it shows how much you are paying per ounce, per pound, and so forth.
but if you have a few extra minutes to prepare your own food at home, you'll gradually save a bundle.
before reaching for a bottle of  water, consider this: while a daily $1.00 bottle of water adds up to $365.00  over a year, tap water is free!
category: food for thought back to: food for thought rss feed
you'll end up with twice as much homemade light juice for the same price.
be wary of "light" juices.
many supermarkets send out coupon booklets or promotion flyers in the  mail.
turn your coin stash into a grocery cash voucher by using a local coinstar  coin counting machine.
at the store, keep an eye on the unit price of different brands and  products.
no matter what you choose, simple changes here and there can lighten the financial load in the long run.
to man - woman to woman - what your doctor is saying - highlight on drugs - what your doctor is reading featured contributors: harvard medical school subscribe to rss feed nov52009 best bargain bites by susanne wakerly, b.s., m.s. brigham and women's hospital have you ever considered food shopping as a place to trim spending?
choose what works for you.
epicurious.com has an interactive tool to help you find out what's in season in your area.
at the store, keep an eye on the unit price of different brands and products.
for example: - buy fruits and vegetables whole instead of pre-cut.
here's a look at some of the best bargain bites around.
for example, baby carrots are a convenient buy, but they cost $.60 more per pound than whole carrots.
skip navigation - young adults - getting married - family life - living single - retirement plan for your health i am interested in... - choosing benefits - health care reform - health news - how benefits work - job change and benefits - tools - wellness tips - working with my doctor fpa aetna - home/ - living healthy/ - harvard medical school commentaries/ - food for thought/ - best bargain bites harvard medical school commentaries: food for thought - topics - - focus on fitness - medical myths - a parent's life - food for thought - minding your mind
often, they are just half regular  juice and half water.
look into wholesale clubs, like bj's or costco, where you can buy healthy  foods you eat often in bulk.
save half of your dinner for lunch the next day your waistlineand your wallet will thank you.
take advantage of these small ways to save big: choose fruits and veggies that are in season, when they're cheaper.
- brew your own coffee at home and carry it in a travel mug.
some of these ideas may require an initial investment, such as a coffee machine or cutting board.
instead, savor those items as occasional treats.
- spend half as much on pizza and pasta sauce by picking up a can of plain tomato sauce and tossing in some italian herbs and black pepper to taste.
don't be tempted, though, to buy high-fat, high-sugar foods in bulk.
epicurious.com has an interactive tool to help you find out what's in season in  your area.
with a few small changes, you may find savings that brighten your day instead of lighten your wallet.
prioritize your purchases and decide what you can and cannot  sacrifice.
at the doctor - health news - harvard medical school commentaries - tools & resources - - navigating your health benefits for dummies - glossary - faqs - open enrollment - health care reform - career changes - home - contact - sitemap - media & press - privacy policy - terms & conditions © 2012 aetna inc.
rotate locations so no one person is always stuck with clean-up.
often, they are just half regular juice and half water.
but if  you have a few extra minutes to prepare your own food at home, you'll gradually  save a bundle.
look into wholesale clubs, like bj's or costco, where you can buy healthy foods you eat often in bulk.
before reaching for a bottle of water, consider this: while a daily $1.00 bottle of water adds up to $365.00 over a year, tap water is free!
- healthy heart - man
no matter what you choose,  simple changes here and there can lighten the financial load in the long run.
keep in mind, often savings add up over time.
suggest monthly potlucks with a group of friends.
create healthier, cheaper versions your fast-food favorites at home.
make your own many prepared meals are pricier because the work is done for you.
check your local grocery store for a coinstar machine or locate one near you atcoinstar.com splurging on a dinner out?
they often taste just the same but  cost less.
for example, baby  carrots are a convenient buy, but they cost $.60 more per pound than whole  carrots.
try these smart substitutions: make friends with the store brands.
does slicing a pineapple give you a headache?
they often taste just the same but cost less.
don't be tempted, though, to buy high-fat,  high-sugar foods in bulk.
turn your coin stash into a grocery cash voucher by using a local coinstar coin counting machine.
- pack lunch in a reusable container.
smart substitutions sometimes, a swap here and there is enough to save some cash without  compromising on the flavors you crave.
you'll end up with twice as much homemade light juice for the  same price.
- create healthier, cheaper versions your fast-food favorites at home.
save money with your beverage choices.
instead, buy a bottle of regular juice and mix it with your own water.
a  1-pound can of beans is often less than a dollar and makes a hearty substitute  for meat in tacos, curries, pasta and more.
feel free to use the ones that work for you.
- be wary of "light" juices.
these changes are just suggestions.
check your local grocery store for a coinstar machine or  locate one near you atcoinstar.com splurging on a dinner out?
spend half as much on pizza and pasta sauce by picking up a can of plain  tomato sauce and tossing in some italian herbs and black pepper to taste.
a few times a week, turn your favorite meat dish into a vegetarian one.
smart substitutions sometimes, a swap here and there is enough to save some cash without compromising on the flavors you crave.
prioritize your purchases and decide what you can and cannot sacrifice.
brew your own coffee at home and carry it in a travel mug.
a russet or sweet potato can turn into delicious home-baked french fries for as little as $.75 per medium potato.
whether it's peanut butter and jelly on whole wheat or last night's leftovers, it's likely to be less costly than a fast food combo meal or deluxe deli sandwich.
the unit price is the other number on the price label.
by susanne wakerly, b.s., m.s. brigham and women's hospital have you ever considered food shopping as a place to trim spending?
feel free to use the ones that work  for you.
2012 rss feed view all news articles - about - - about plan for your health - about aetna - about the financial planning association - living healthy - - my benefits primer - benefits of living well -
want to enjoy the variety of a restaurant menu without the hefty bills?
a 1-pound can of beans is often less than a dollar and makes a hearty substitute for meat in tacos, curries, pasta and more.
lightly drizzle fry-cut potato slices with  canola oil and bake at 400°f for 15 minutes on each side.
category: food for thought back to: food for thought - rss feed - print this page - email to a friend - add to favorites nutrition news - nutrition news - heart health - diabetes - risks of too little, too much selenium march 01, 2012 - some accept 'downsizing' at restaurants february 14, 2012 rss feed view all news articles heart health - those with heart disease may have poor oral health february 29, 2012 - drugs alone ok for many heart patients february 28, 2012 - citrus may lower risk of stroke february 24, 2012 rss feed view all news articles diabetes - risks of too little, too much selenium march 01, 2012 - statin labels to add possible side effects february 29, 2012 - metformin urged as 1st drug for diabetes february 07,
it shows how  much you are paying per ounce, per pound, and so forth.
keep in mind, often  savings add up over time.
cash savers you don't have to change your entire lifestyle overnight.
lightly drizzle fry-cut potato slices with canola oil and bake at 400°f for 15 minutes on each side.
whether it's peanut butter and jelly  on whole wheat or last night's leftovers, it's likely to be less costly than a  fast food combo meal or deluxe deli sandwich.
instead, buy a bottle of regular juice and mix it with  your own water.
grab the pre-sliced  pineapple and save on store brand cereal instead.
grab the pre-sliced pineapple and save on store brand cereal instead.
some of these ideas may require an initial investment, such as a coffee  machine or cutting board.
for example: buy fruits and vegetables whole instead of pre-cut.
you can pick one up in the store if you don't get them at home.
many supermarkets send out coupon booklets or promotion flyers in the mail.