visit my other online home at apairofpinkshoes.com name mail (will not be published)
simply brown four or five bone in chops in a  pan, transfer to a greased baking dish and add one box of uncle ben’s  original wild rice mix with the herb packet (don’t use the quick cook  rice).
these are a great side to acompany hamburgers, grilled chicken, or steak–and they’re a lot healthier than chips or french fries.
cherry tomato crisp……this is another recipe we  featured a while back and is great for incorporating something healthy into  your meal.
tweet yesterday, renae shared the reasons that family dinners need to be a priority in our houses; how they effect our children, how they change our family dynamics, and how they influence our health.
posted by maggie on 06 march 2012 in be informed, featured posts, savvy advice | 0 comments as the "be informed" team, we are committed to bringing you relevant, practical, and field-tested information on a variety of topics including adoption, special needs, frugal living, pets, parenting, career, and much more.
i can’t let those expectations and the fact that they won’t come true derail my dinner at home plans.
and if getting out a food processor gives you hives you can also use ready-made bread crumbs and flavor them.
and believe me–i love giada for the serenity that is her kitchen as  much as the next girl–but i need to be honest about the fact that  it’s never going to be like that while i’m cooking in my own  kitchen.
cook until they rise to the top and serve as a soup; top with some grated parmesan cheese.
visit my other online home at apairofpinkshoes.com tweet
most of the time i feel that what gets in the way of regular, quality,  meaningful family dinners is the food itself.
bob evan’s pre-made mashed potatoes.
but  then………….4:30 rolls  around……..
they have a great little herby taste to them as well that makes people think you did something extra special to them.
but i try and reserve those for saturday or sunday  nights–when my day has been relatively peaceful and i feel up to the  challenge.
i was skeptical  of these too–but they are great.
i buy the frozen beef tortellini and add it to about 8 cups of boiling chicken broth.
side dishes: sides stress me out.
your message... enter your email address: delivered by feedburner designed by elegant wordpress themes | powered by wordpress
be informed grab our button…  our networks….. home | be informed | easy dinner ideas….force yourself to take it  easy.
it’s delicious and filling and your kids will beg for more.
you can bake  some broccoli or cauliflower on the same tray and have a vegetable medley blend  that will be a hit!
we have these grand plans of whipping up some home-made chicken cordon bleu (after all–we bought all the ingredients and it’s what we have written on the meal planning calendar for today–we have to).
they are creamy and you simply zap them in the microwave.
and it’s so much easier said  than done to throw out, “just take some things off the  calendar….get home from work earlier……plan your meals a  month ahead of time…..drop everything you’re doing and eat  together.”
pour two cups of water into the dish and bake covered for one hour at 350 degrees.
these are a great side to acompany hamburgers, grilled  chicken, or steak–and they’re a lot healthier than chips or french  fries.
my two year old cries when this is all gone.
home | be informed | easy dinner ideas….force yourself to take it easy.
another easy main dish idea that was a staple in our kitchen growing up was pork chops & rice.
alexia sweet potato fries…..these are delicious as are all alexia products and they can be found in the frozen food aisle of most grocery stores.
so i want to share with you some practical, so easy, dinner ideas that you can reasonably do a couple times a week and sit down together for a great half n hour around the table.
we’re feeling “kids eat free night at applebee’s.”
wash a few potatoes, slice them in 1/4 inch thick rounds (skin included)  and place them right on your oven rack.
it’s delicious and filling and your kids  will beg for more.
i think it’s  hard to argue against any of those things…….but it doesn’t  erase the fact that sometimes life still just feels  so………..insane.
you can bake some broccoli or cauliflower on the same tray and have a vegetable medley blend that will be a hit!
my grandma made home-made tortellini–i don’t.
serve with some applesauce and you’ve got something different and easy.
i would encourage you to make a list of all your simple dinner ideas and make that your go-to resource instead of biting off more than you can chew when it comes to making dinner and delusions of grandeur.
i believe there are a few main reasons that our family dinner plans get  derailed because of food–and we’re to blame…… we set our sights way too high in regards to what we can reasonably make  during the week.
and i love trying new recipes that are complicated and in-depth.
they use everyday ingredients, kids love them, they are easy to make ahead and freeze, and they generate left-overs; all necessary when you’re coming up with easy dinner ideas.
if you paired this with a rotisserie chicken from the grocery store you’d have one gourmet looking meal.
simply brown four or five bone in chops in a pan, transfer to a greased baking dish and add one box of uncle ben’s original wild rice mix with the herb packet (don’t use the quick cook rice).
bake them at 350 degrees for about 45-50 minutes and watch them blister up as they bake.
i love cooking–love it.
grab them off  the racks with tongs, srpinkle them with salt and a little butter, and serve  with ketchup.
and the week continues in this vein….know what  i mean?
i believe there are a few main reasons that our family dinner plans get derailed because of food–and we’re to blame…… and believe me–i love giada for the serenity that is her kitchen as much as the next girl–but i need to be honest about the fact that it’s never going to be like that while i’m cooking in my own kitchen.
tweet yesterday, renae shared the reasons that family dinners need to be a  priority in our houses; how they effect our children, how they change our  family dynamics, and how they influence our health.
we’re getting home from work or starting to think  about dinner
and we’re just not feeling chicken cordon bleu.
they use everyday ingredients, kids love them, they are  easy to make ahead and freeze, and they generate left-overs; all necessary when  you’re coming up with easy dinner ideas.
i love  cooking–love it.
cook until they rise to the top and serve as a soup; top with some  grated parmesan cheese.
and it’s so much easier said than done to throw out, “just take some things off the calendar….get home from work earlier……plan your meals a month ahead of time…..drop everything you’re doing and eat together.”
serve with some applesauce and you’ve got something  different and easy.
cherry tomato crisp……this is another recipe we featured a while back and is great for incorporating something healthy into your meal.
you can follow these links to get the recipes: 1.
you can follow these links  to get the recipes: 1.
it’s freeing–join me will you?
hamburger surprise 2.
and i love trying new recipes that are complicated  and in-depth.
website your message...
and if getting out a  food processor gives you hives you can also use ready-made bread crumbs and  flavor them.
and the week continues in this vein….know what i mean?
i was skeptical of these too–but they are great.
i’m always  scrounging around trying  to find something more creative than a tube of crescent rolls.
they have a great little herby taste to them as  well that makes people think you did something extra special to them.
bake them at 350 degrees for  about 45-50 minutes and watch them blister up as they bake.
i think it’s hard to argue against any of those things…….but it doesn’t erase the fact that sometimes life still just feels so………..insane.
pour two cups of water into the dish and bake covered for one hour  at 350 degrees.
grab them off the racks with tongs, srpinkle them with salt and a little butter, and serve with ketchup.
but i try and reserve those for saturday or sunday nights–when my day has been relatively peaceful and i feel up to the challenge.
if you paired this with a rotisserie chicken from the grocery  store you’d have one gourmet looking meal.
i got over the “sides need to be home-made too” mental battle a while ago.
we watch a lot of the food network.
i  would encourage you to make a list of all your simple dinner ideas and make  that your go-to resource instead of biting off more than you can chew when it  comes to making dinner and delusions of grandeur.
so i want to share with you some practical, so easy, dinner ideas that you  can reasonably do a couple times a week and sit down together for a great half  n hour around the table.
most of the time i feel that what gets in the way of regular, quality, meaningful family dinners is the food itself.
******************** main courses: last year we featured two different recipes that would work well for easy family dinners.
i can’t let those expectations and the fact that they  won’t come true derail my dinner at home plans.
but then………….4:30 rolls around……..
we’re getting home from work or starting to think about dinner
i’m always scrounging around trying to find something more creative than a tube of crescent rolls.
we’re feeling “kids eat free night at  applebee’s.”
i  buy the frozen beef tortellini and add it to about 8 cups of boiling chicken  broth.
wash a few potatoes, slice them in 1/4 inch thick rounds (skin included) and place them right on your oven rack.
we fool ourselves into thinking that we can completely wipe out the need  to ever go out during the week or order a pizza.
they are creamy and you simply zap  them in the microwave.
if you can get yourself in that mind-set about food  preparation my guess is that you’ll feel a lot more relaxed and  successful when it comes to making dinner around the table a priority.
we have these grand plans  of whipping up some home-made chicken cordon bleu (after all–we bought  all the ingredients and it’s what we have written on the meal planning  calendar for today–we have to).
these ideas are simple and i’m sure you have a million more.
they make a great side to chicken or steak.
main courses: last year we featured two different recipes that would work well for easy  family dinners.
if you can get yourself in that mind-set about food preparation my guess is that you’ll feel a lot more relaxed and successful when it comes to making dinner around the table a priority.
another easy main dish idea that was a staple in our kitchen growing up  was pork chops & rice.
i got over  the “sides need to be home-made too” mental battle a while ago.
if only it were that simple right?
and my personal favorite……blister potatoes.
alexia sweet potato fries…..these are delicious as are all  alexia products and they can be found in the frozen food aisle of most grocery  stores.