my pyramid report a broken or incorrect link.
for example, instead of a large sub, try a small sub with a side salad or fruit.
- about us - partners - frequently asked questions - search our site - contact us - make a plan - healthy body - healthy mind - healthy environment - how healthy are you?
for your convenience, it will open in a new browser window.
drink plenty of water instead of sweetened drinks.
- home - what is preconception health?
choose whole fruit instead of juice to  get more fiber and less sugar.
read the nutrition facts label  on foods.
fish facts california department of public health | web design and development by david levin copyright © 2009 :: preconception health council of california | disclaimer
fill half of your plate with vegetables.
fruit drinks, regular soft drinks, sweets, cookies,  cakes, and candies provide empty calories and cause rapid changes to your  body’s blood sugar.
drink plenty of water instead of  sweetened drinks.
if you do have fast foods sometimes, you can still make healthier choices.
also, if you get pregnant, eating a healthy diet now can help ensure the health of any future pregnancies.
here are some tips for healthier eating: - vary your veggies.
the health of a baby can be affected by the mother’s diet before she becomes pregnant.
and vary your protein choices—with more fish, beans, peas, nuts, seeds, and soy products.
bake it, broil it, microwave it, or grill it.
choose foods with less than 30 percent of the calories from fat and less than 10 percent of the calories from saturated fats.
have a salad, soup, or fruit instead of fries.
make sure that grains such as wheat, rice, oats, or corn are referred to as "whole" or “whole grain” at thebeginning of the ingredients list.
a healthy diet can help you  maintain a healthy weight and can help you get all the nutrients your body  needs.
get 3 cups of fat-free or  low-fat milk, low-fat yogurt and/or low-fat cheese every day.
eat at least 3 ounces of whole-grain cereals, breads, crackers, rice, or pasta every day.
use mustard or ketchup instead of mayonnaise.
choose foods with less than 30 percent of the calories from fat  and less than 10 percent of the calories from saturated fats.
get 3 cups of fat-free or low-fat milk, low-fat yogurt and/or low-fat cheese every day.
my pyramid california department of public health | web design and development by  david levin copyright © 2009 :: preconception health council of california
contributed by: external links (2) your health is affected by what you eat.
one ounce is about 1 slice of bread, 1 cup of breakfast cereal,or ½ cup of cooked rice or pasta.
choose foods that are  grilled instead of fried.
for  more information about fish, visit http://www.womenshealth.gov/pregnancy/mom-to-be-tools/fish-facts.pdf limit fats and salt.
a healthy diet can help you maintain a healthy weight and can help you get all the nutrients your body needs.
and vary your protein  choices—with more fish, beans, peas, nuts, seeds, and soy products.
order smaller entrée portions.
one ounce is about 1 slice  of bread, 1 cup of breakfast cereal,or ½ cup of cooked rice or pasta.
for more tips on healthier eating, go to http://www.choosemyplate.gov back to healthy weight easy-to-read printable version          en español external links: the link(s) below may take you to an external web site.
fruit drinks, regular soft drinks, sweets, cookies, cakes, and candies provide empty calories and cause rapid changes to your body’s blood sugar.
every woman california content categories / healthy body / guide to healthier eating posted on: wednesday, march 18 2009 11:22am
eat less than 2,300 mg (approximately 1 teaspoon of salt) of sodium per day and choose and prepare foods with little salt - limit sugars.
go lean with protein.
the health of a baby can be  affected by the mother’s diet before she becomes pregnant.
what counts  as 1 cup of fruit: 1 small apple, 1 large banana, about 30 grapes, 1 medium  grapefruit, 1 large orange, 1 large peach, 1 medium pear, 2 large plums, 8  large strawberries, 1 cup canned fruit, ½ cup dried fruit.
bake  it, broil it, microwave it, or grill it.
eat more dark green veggies, such as broccoli, kale, and  spinach; orange veggies, such as carrots, sweet potatoes, and squash; and beans  and peas, such as pinto beans, kidney beans, black beans, garbanzo beans, split  peas, and lentils.
make sure that grains such as wheat, rice, oats, or corn are referred to as  "whole" or “whole grain” at thebeginning of the ingredients list.
eat less  than 2,300 mg (approximately 1 teaspoon of salt) of sodium per day and choose  and prepare foods with little salt limit sugars.
also, if you get pregnant, eating a healthy diet now can help  ensure the health of any future pregnancies.
what counts as 1 cup of fruit: 1 small apple, 1 large banana, about 30 grapes, 1 medium grapefruit, 1 large orange, 1 large peach, 1 medium pear, 2 large plums, 8 large strawberries, 1 cup canned fruit, ½ cup dried fruit.
fill half of your plate with  vegetables.
choose calcium-rich foods.
- choose calcium-rich foods.
aim for at least 2 cups a day.
- go lean with protein.
for more tips on healthier eating, go to http://www.choosemyplate.gov back to healthy weight easy-to-read printable version en español external links: the link(s) below may take you to an external web site.
order smaller  entrée portions.
report a broken or  incorrect link.
here are  some tips for healthier eating: vary your veggies.
for example, instead of a large sub, try a small  sub with a side salad or fruit.
choose whole fruit instead of juice to get more fiber and less sugar.
if you do have fast foods  sometimes, you can still make healthier choices.
register to become a partner home / every woman california  content categories / healthy body / guide to healthier eating posted on: wednesday, march 18 2009 11:22am
read the nutrition facts label on foods.
eat at least 3 ounces of whole-grain  cereals, breads, crackers, rice, or pasta every day.
- information for men - login - links and resources - event calendar - discussion forum - register to become a partner home /
choose foods that are grilled instead of fried.
for your  convenience, it will open in a new browser window.
eat more dark green veggies, such as broccoli, kale, and spinach; orange veggies, such as carrots, sweet potatoes, and squash; and beans and peas, such as pinto beans, kidney beans, black beans, garbanzo beans, split peas, and lentils.
choose lean meats and poultry.
for more information about fish, visit http://www.womenshealth.gov/pregnancy/mom-to-be-tools/fish-facts.pdf - limit fats and salt.