22 february 2012 11:16am they would be classified obese according to their bmi, but not on more precise metrics.
22 february 2012 11:45amresponse to mistertom, 22 february 2012 11:37am calories in  calories out =
continually beating ourselves up because we don't fit in with official guidelines isn't doing us any good.
photograph: robert  llewelyn/getty images i'm not surprised to read the latest news that there has been an  overstatement on how long it will take people to lose weight.
instead of demonising people for being fat we should start focussing  instead on health.
weight gain i find it ridiculous that so many people only consider adjusting the "calories in" side of the equation, whereas if they increased the "calories out" by increasing the amount of exercise they did it would ultimately end up having the same effect.
i definitely am a lot healthier (and happier) than people slimmer than me.
when i was not exercising for a couple of months due to injury i cut down on my calories but put on weight.
one day, perhaps, we  will, but in the meantime do we really want to sacrifice our health in order to  pursue a goal of weight loss that may well be a blind alley?
11:43am thank you metaldad for saying what i wanted to say but much more coherently than i could say it after i'd got worked up reading all the previous comments.
so please, let's stop putting the emphasis on the numbers on the scales and start using other measurements for health.
i'm sure that's something  everyone would agree is a worthwhile pursuit.
i read his book back in the 90s.
replies may also be deleted.
you're following all the rules, giving it your all and yet the scales turn round and blow a raspberry at you.
to do this, of course, you have to know what is in what you eat and drink.
22 february 2012 11:46amresponse to mistertom, 22 february 2012 11:37am i find it ridiculous that so many people only consider adjusting the "calories in" side of the equation, whereas if they increased the "calories out" by increasing the amount of exercise they did it would ultimately end up having the same effect.
linda bacon and lucy aphramor have done some great work in  this area and i'd love to see more health professionals take this approach.
nobody tut tuts at those athletic souls with high bmis and statuesque muscles.
hint: we aren't designed to consume refined carbs at the levels we do.
"if i'd just shut my gaping gob, all would be ok." "i shouldn't have blown off that zumba class to go out with my  friends.
the results back the 'calories out' approach.
but, we must surely be cautious about creating a culture where being overweight is normal.
to hold weight loss up as the path to health can bedangerous.
for more detail see our faqs.
22 february 2012 11:08amresponse to wotever, 22 february 2012
22 february 2012 11:36amresponse to msvance, 22 february 2012 11:30am but (in women at least) almost to celebrate it.
we cannot continue to take a one-size-fits-all approach to health.
result: you will healthy, fit and lean, even when you get really elderly.
buy a week's worth of fruit and veg at the market for under a tenner.
22 february 2012 11:27am
this article was published on guardian.co.uk at 10.41 gmt on wednesday 22  february 2012.
could it be possible that we don't know precisely what  causes the body to lose weight and maintain that loss?
this article sounds like a miserable fat person's rant about feeling bad about themselves.
i apologise - i realise my own experience and opinion is highly subjective, but this is just something i've noticed recently.
as i got better the weight stayed off.
i do more exercise than my skinny friends.
last 24 hours last 24 hours zeitgeist is an experiment in showing trending news, topics and articles from the guardian.
this has been suspected for some time, so why we are still applauding television programmes like the biggest loser, where people lose large amounts of weight each week?
can you carry your kit over the distance in the time without problem.
change society's attitude to us
what really surprised me was that i just did not like being that thin - it didn't feel like me and i felt i looked gaunt rather than healthy.
i had relatives who lived to 90, 89 and 84 etc who would be considered obese by today's standards.
after losing a few pounds myself (from a size 8-10 to just an 8, still a healthy bmi - whatever that means) after an illness last year i was astonished at how many people remarked on my weight loss in very judgemental terms.
you know - burn more calories than you consume and you lose weight.
healthcare professionals do focus on health.
the us 100m sprint relay team were all unfit for military service according to bmi and it was only when you got to the middle and long distance athletes that they could pass.
exercise without weight loss reduces abdominal fat and prevents further weight gain.
you're following all the rules, giving it your all and yet the scales turn  round and blow a raspberry at you.
if someone is eating a lot of junk food and not exercising then it is going to lead to poor health, but there are many cases of people who have not achieved a so-called healthy weight but whose other health readings – blood pressure and cholesterol for instance –are within a healthy range.
so please, let's stop putting the emphasis on the numbers on the scales and  start using other measurements for health.
and be serious about the exercise.
what's so wrong with that?
i do overindulge on the carbs (pasta especially).
a disgusting slob who eats cake all day, about to die from diabetes, right?
being more than a bit fat will kill you earlier than you might like, and make the march to the grave more of a deeply uncomfortable, breathless waddle.
'the idea that we simply cut consumption by x  number of calories isn't leading to the expected benefits.'
@wotever rugby players and heayweight boxers usually have more muscle not fat and that is the reason for the extra weight - not the same and thing and should not be confused.
do you feel confident and happy?
here's the key points from our panel confidentiality is key when dealing with patients on digital networks and formal training should be required, explainscolin wren
look at all those professional rugby players and to some extent heavyweight boxers.
average speed 16 mph.
i struggle to understand why so many people seem to actively hate overweight people.
the man had no muscle mass as he never excerised, drove everywhere.
i eat lots of fresh food & vegetables.
it's all well and good to say it's a lifestyle, but it should also be a lifestyle you enjoy.
this has been suspected for some time, so why we are still  applauding television programmes like the biggest loser, where people lose  large amounts of weight each week?
itcan be a lot of things, from slow metabolism or hypothyroidism to hidden disabilities to bad habits to a serious case of depression, and those things can have occurred in the past, but not be occurring now.
people think that oats for breakfast, a sandwich for lunch and wholemeal pasta for dinner is healthy
were we to do this i would expect to  see more healthy and happy people on this planet.
they aren't concerned about bmis, so much as bmis in the wider context of muscle vs fat, exercise, types of foods eaten, quantities of foods eaten, times foods are eaten, emotional and mental triggers for eating, and dealing with mental and emotional health issues if they are at the root of overeating and resultant weight gain.
yes muscle weighs more than fat (blah blah blah) but that's the point - people only look at weight as a factor.
this show has come in forcriticism in the past because of its unrealistic portrayal of weight loss and such unrealistic expectations just create anxiety.
i also play on the wing in vets rugby.
this has been suspected for some time, no, this has been known for some time.
yeah and once the sportyness stops these super fit types bloat right up as muscle turns to fat.
i am 5'9 weigh 12st 5lb.
i'm not, by any means, saying that exercise isn't essential for a healthy life, just that it shouldn't necessarily be linked to weight-loss.
but junk food and a lack of exercise have clearly led to increasing levels of obesity.
i often feel that i would be more acceptable to society if i was skinny and a heavy smoker, skinny and a benefit cheat, skinny and a racist than a fat, non-smoking, working tax-payer with no bigotted opinions because i'm not considered outwardly attractive to this society.
22 february 2012 11:13am could it be possible that we don't know precisely what causes the body to lose weight and maintain that loss?
11:48am bmi is a good general indicator
your heart sinks, you feel the shame and disappointment rising and you look in the mirror to start on the blame and recriminations.
11:15am it's the proliferation of processed food that's lead to the obesity epidemic.
these are children who will grow up saying "i was always a big child....."
you wouldn't just lose weight you'd be fitter as well.
i have the figure of a goddess - providing that the goddess of whom you are thinking is the willendorf venus - but when i can no longer get out of a low armchair without disturbing the sleeping three-year-old in my arms, that's when i will worry about my weight.
having seen his lifestyle and what he eats and drinks, i really find that difficult to believe.
if they remain sedentary, the muscles that used to be maintained by exercise will waste, so they lose muscle mass at the same time as putting down more fat stores.
were we to do this i would expect to see more healthy and happy people on this planet.
result, more energy in and less energy out, so they get fat.
how useful is all this self-blame?
22 february 2012 11:44amresponse to mistertom, 22 february 2012 11:37am i cannot recommend this advice enough.
11:29am if you starve yourself and miss out on all the good things in life, like rich food, alcohol and chocolate.
though anyone could tell, he was not a healthy shape.
one day, perhaps, we will, but in the meantime do we really want to sacrifice our health in order to pursue a goal of weight loss that may well be a blind alley?
consume more than you burn and you turn into a chipwreck.
step 1 - an interesting, informed , balanced and thought provoking article step 2 -
when the doc pointed out that my weight was leading to hypertension and a couple of other unwanted side effects, i decided to lose 20 pounds.
well being a senior bloke he got antsy about it and looked into it.
last 24 hours latest news, views and links from comment is free journalists and editors mattseaton: love santorum's coinage here: #whatwouldsatando?
you'll feel better in the long run.
forget diets to lose weight.
especially on here, since people just love to argue regardless, so what i say is really inconsequential!
anyone who has tried even one diet will be familiar with the dieters' plateau.
or even a lot if you like and are burning the calories.
and no, i'm not saying women without curves are not "real women" - all women are "real women", that phrase is just odd!
cook and bake from scratch, eat only 3 home cooked meals a day (modest portions and no pudding) and do not snack in between.
your heart sinks, you feel the shame and  disappointment rising and you look in the mirror to start on the blame and  recriminations.
if any of this sounds familiar, i'd like you to ask yourself a few  questions.
i've slowly put on weight and there was a point, slightly over-weight by some standards, where i felt 'ah this is where i feel comfortable'.
10:51am this comment was removed by a moderator because it didn't abide by our community standards.
22 february 2012 10:56am next week in the guardian: trying to quit amoking only stresses you out, so why not have a fag?
11:25am and simply cutting back on calories won't work in the long term because the body will slow its metabolic rate.
some seriiously unfit unhealthy people have a good bmi and yet most sports people are classified overweight.
i eat over 3500 calories a day but because i spend an hour swimming, running or cycling 5 days a week i never put on weight.
but people need to be steered in the right direction, losing weight and feeling good shouldn't be a struggle, it should make sense!
most slim people are that way through a lucky break with their genes, not through their innate strength of mind or character.
i think when you find out how many calories are in a couple of biscuits (or slice of bread/banana/salad dressing) and equate that to how much exercise in minutes or hours (running/swimming/cycling) you'd actually have to do to burn it off, you understand why there's so much focus on the "calories in" side of the equation.
and i feel slightly annoyed with myself that i even felt i had to justify myself at all.
the author seems to be making light of an explosion of obesity related diseases like type 2 diabetes which will have major cost implications for the nhs in the future.
some people have a naturally slow metabolism.
he was a big fellah and even as a senior officer still ran his 5 miles every day.
i'm 5'2" and 11st7lbs (making my bmi borderline obese).
having said that i generally eat very little junk food and certainly would not encourage others to feed children a lot of junk food.
tweet this guardian.co.uk, wednesday 22 february 2012 10.41 gmt article history fear of an obesity epidemic is making the problem worse | jenny jameson
i think we do really need to re-learn reading our own bodies and making decisions about what is right for us.
the metabolism of most people slows down as they get older, but if they are too big to begin with then it will obviously harder to deal with at this time.
my blood pressure, liver, kidney function etc all good.
• follow comment is free on twitter @commentisfree your ip address will be logged related 21 feb 2012 why the weight is so hard to shift: guidelines have been wrong all along 13 jul 2004
the fat controller 11 may 1999 fat by nature 14 dec 1999 why dieting makes you fat your ip address will be logged 189 comments, displaying oldest firstsort comments by oldest newest sign in to comment or create your guardian account to join the conversation 22 february 2012
22 february 2012 10:56am i think the author has a point.
22 february 2012 11:03amresponse to wotever, 22 february 2012 10:56am
you may be horrified by that, but eh, why not?
the simplistic calories in/calories out equation is half the problem.
but i'm still overweight.
unfortunately, i am also overweight and years of following doctors advice, eating sensibly, (can't eat pizza, pasta, bread, cake, biscuits, sweets, burgers, most takeaways etc anyway - intollerant to wheat and diabetic), years of exercise (- a brown belt in contact karate and hundreds of miles walking the dog -) and i am still over weight.
if you don't like being fat, or miserable, try counselling and a weight loss group or gp approved plan with regular check ups.
11:06am anyone who has tried even one diet will be familiar with the dieters' plateau.
yes, people shouldn't put themselves down, but be real - did you really watch the calories and were you really energetic week in, week out when the scales stayed the same?
they key for most of us of our demographic?
i like 'em, they make me happy.
even with my previous figure i had often had people call me 'skinny' or 'like a stick'.
but it's really, really not!
these are often the same people who celebrate being "real women" (an exclusive club for which it seems one must be at least a size 12 and have plenty of 'curves').
11:17am this whole article is based on overweight people losing weight and how demoralising it is.
continually beating ourselves up because we don't fit in with official  guidelines isn't doing us any good.
take responsibility over your own actions.
22 february 2012 11:30am the author has some good points, but i do think it is concerning how it has become quite normal and acceptable not only to be a bit bigger, but (in women at least) almost to celebrate it.
no 28 jan 2012 leila morris: you told us: i didn't go to weight watchers to look like beyoncé – i just wanted to be healthy again.
to maximise weight loss you really have to do both.
i agree that we should have better measures as far as obesity is concerned, you cannot reduce health to numbers on the scale.
i *definitely* celebrate my big bum (you need a big bum to be able to squat your bodyweight) and big boobs.
it's not the same case for everyone, but there are differences.
without the belly, he would have been underweight.
weight would be lost.
22 february 2012 11:45amresponse to mistertom, 22 february 2012
for the large majority, the bmi is a simple way to assess one's healthiness.
17 mar 2006 atkins-style diets can be life-threatening, doctors warn 17 dec 2006 publishers aim to pile on the pounds with new diet books 2 dec 2007 let me share the secret of the world's best diet with you 27 jun 2005 overweight who diet risk dying earlier, says study britain's first live-in school for fat pupils 27 jul 2008 overweight children will learn dieting tips as well as the three rs at a new private boarding facility
however the majority of people don't fall into this category so it's still useful for them.
11:08am @vitaelampada same.
their conclusion was weight loss induced by increased daily physical activity without caloric restriction substantially reduces obesity (particularly abdominal obesity) and insulin resistance in men.
i could be at the top of my healthy bmi range and have a sizeable belly.
as an aside, how many women here (and i'm guessing it will be women) have joined an exercise or sports class for the pure enjoyment of it and been told that it's "a great way to lose weight"?
whoops, i meant than some people slimmer than me!
bmi's a good rough guide for the average person - if anything, it almost allows too wide a range (about 2 stone for me).
22 february 2012 11:45am
the tidal wage of ignorant, smug, abusive comments about how easy it is to lose weight, how people only have themselves to blame, how people who are heavier than the government says they should be are disgusting and so on.
22 february 2012 11:09am i always wanted to be thin.
the point is that exercise is good for you in many ways, but is a relatively small part of losing weight.
however, i'm still a size 16 in a 5'3" frame.
11:15am don't eat shit.
slowly, but very surely.
from: £29.99 ana marie cox:
"if i'd just shut my gaping gob, all would be ok." "i shouldn't have blown off that zumba class to go out with my friends.
22 february 2012 11:20am emphasis on a low fat diet is what's causing this obesity epidemic.
what it almost never is, however, is a deliberate inclination toward gluttony or some decadent desire to be fat.
rt @politifact a full transcript of rick santorum's comments on satanhttp://t.co/garypr8labout 7 hours, 13 minutes ago mattseaton: how much have debates swung the gop race?
i am now healthy, energetic and a bit overweight.
you're not seriously comparing heavweight boxers with the typical belly hanging over the jeans in the high street person, are you?
weight is not always a good indicator, the percentage of body fat in proportion to lean muscle is the key.
when we can't live up to our expectations we are more likely to  engage in behaviour that can lead to poor health – eating large amounts  of junk food in a short space of time.
noone wakes up one morning and suddenly discovers they have put on 10kgs...
i'm still living with a bmi a few points (ahem) north of 22, but i'm fine with that - unless it causes problems, in which case i would take action again.
pulses are cheap and healthy, delicious when spices are added.
do like schwartkopf did and get rid of it.
i enjoy treats - a takeaway occasionally, some sweets or a pecan plait.
my essential problem is that although i eat healthily, i eat big portions.
22 february 2012 11:30am it stigmatises people who don't fit into the "acceptable" range, regardless of whether these people are healthy or not.
'don't eat shit and exercise' just do that for ever and not just a week, the you can fuss about how many raisens are in your muesli give up self deception for lent 22 february 2012 11:26am "eat food.
the bmi says i'm obese.
what i'd like to say is that making fat people feel like pariahs in society doesn't help us to lose weight for all kinds of reasons.
and wasn't feeling confident and happy one of the main reasons you wanted to lose weight in the first place?
22 february 2012 11:26am moltisantii-
22 february 2012 11:37am calories in  calories out =
if you can then you are fit for military service.
if you aren't disabled (and sometimes even if you are) exercise is the only way to go and then eat normally.
in the same way, i am tall, good looking and very bright - none of which i had to work for.
an hour in the gym will probably burn me about an extra 500 calories, tops.
why not, asks @michaelwolffnyc: let's have it out, this whole 'values' fight: http://t.co/i33cxqocabout 8 hours, 51 minutes ago by richard holloway £17.99 by jean carper £10.99 by susan hill £7.99 by helen dunmore £9.99 by scotty bowers £16.99 search the guardian bookshopsearch thermal-lined trousers our best selling fleecy lined outdoor trousers - buy one pair and get a second pair free.
we  may see a reduction in obesity rates, we may not – but isn't it the  obesity-related illnesses we really want to reduce, rather than simply berating  people because their bodies don't fit in with guidelines, which are currently  in doubt?
here's where bmi falls down.
wear have a size 30' waist 16 collar.
we do, or at least those of us with any sense do.
in fact, i think the whole weight-centred approach to health is extremely  unhelpful.
i'm fitter than i have been since my teens because i have had a dog for three years and walk about 3 miles a day with him.
and according to bmi.
could it be possible that we don't know precisely what causes the body to lose weight and maintain that loss?
i also think a key point is to enjoy what you're doing.
• follow comment is free on twitter @commentisfree printable version
i regularly test my blood sugar as diabetes runs in my family (and i'm afraid it hasn't discriminated by weight when it decided who to pick).
and the reason is really very simple, that the fatter you are, the more calories you use just to maintain the same weight.
22 february 2012 11:36amresponse to metaldad, 22 february 2012 11:34am well said, metaldad.
just do not buy rubbish food, chocolates, sweets, crisps, biscuits etc.
you can be slim & eat crap, not exercise etc.
i cycle to work and back every day 25 mile round trip.
but that's possibly an extra 10 years of alzheimers, living in a care home and being slapped around by the staff.
what you do not buy, you cannot eat.
bmi is a silly measure and i mean for anyone.
i walk a lot & ridiculously fast.
neither of us are body-builders but looking at us and basing it purely on weight/bmi, you'd say i was less healthy.
being fat is unhealthy but eating fat is the complete opposite!
22 february 2012 10:51am this comment was removed by a moderator because it didn't abide by our community standards.
cut it in half, and the pounds leave in unhappy sober droves.
your body either burns fat or sugar for fuel, if you eat a high fat diet your body switches to fat as its primary energy source, you don't get the sugar crashes and insulin responses that cause so much inflammation and fat retention, and your body begins to burn its own stored fat because it no longer needs to cling onto it for, what it literally believes is dear life.
fact is, eating less and moving more does work.
and health would be improved as well.
you should be right, whatever the weight is!
and you can be overweight and still be healthy.
if any of this sounds familiar, i'd like you to ask yourself a few questions.
22 february 2012 11:29am being a bit fat is ok.
not as much as the media would like to think, says@forecasterenten: http://t.co/h0iaomclabout 7 hours, 17 minutes ago mattseaton: rick santorum for president?
enjoy and don't obsess about the dials on the scales.
when we can't live up to our expectations we are more likely to engage in behaviour that can lead to poor health – eating large amounts of junk food in a short space of time.
it should feel right!
comment is free fear of an obesity epidemic is making the problem worse do we really want to sacrifice our health in order to pursue a goal of  weight loss that may well be a blind alley?
not everyone who is overweight buys rubbish food and doesn't cook every meal from scratch.
i don't diet because the people i see diet always seem miserable.
the message is, stay active.
our live debate earlier this month looked at how the nhs can cope with the growing number of people with long-term conditions and mental health problems.
i'd also be furious if i lived until 90 and had denied myself chocolate!
there's no point weighing less, feeling hungry and lacking energy all day and being unfit.
many slim people, unfortunately, don't want to accept that it may be harder for other people to lose weight than it is for them.
if someone is eating a lot of junk food and not exercising then it is going  to lead to poor health, but there are many cases of people who have not  achieved a so-called healthy weight but whose other health readings –  blood pressure and cholesterol for instance –are within a healthy range.
well actually, i go powerlifting 3x a week and get some cardio on on two other days.
we'd be a lot better off if we focussed some energy on the fact that people aren't able to exercise in many circumstances - long commutes, cramped offices in car-infested industrial estates, tiny homes with no space for an exercise bike, expensive gym memberships with no subsidy - all push people into a lifestyle of enforced idleness.
and it's no good arguing that it is a useful guideline for most people.
you may well live longer!
in fact, i think the whole weight-centred approach to health is extremely unhelpful.
eating healthy is more important than weight loss (though weight loss natural occurs through healthy eating)
but i enjoy it despite being bad at it.
same goes for food - appreciate every delicious mouthful of real food; food that isn't an over-processed product that your grandmother wouldn't recognise.
when every flapjack is a sin, you're automatically set up to fail.
i cycle to and from work every day (at speed), have a diet rich in whole grains, fresh fruit and vegetables, rarely drink and don't smoke, yet my bmi is in the overweight category.
but equally trying to tar all health guidelines as useless is an equally pointless idea.
is it perhaps because 1) they are easy to identify visually, and 2) they are one of the last societal groups it is still ok to sneer at and feel superior?
does it make you feel good about  yourself?
but most of their weight is made up of muscle, not fat.
i hated the feel of being so thin.
in other words they have done nothing to achieve it - its just there.
why not blood pressure, resting heart rate and body fat %?
22 february 2012 11:28amresponse to vitaelampada, 22 february 2012
i sure am overweight, but i'm healthy.
yeah mate, that's all well and good if you are refining your health
instead we think: "i'm obviously not  losing this weight as i should, so i may as well give in and stuff my  face."
this fear of a fat planet is just feeding stress and i think just making the problem worse.
we can't tar everyone with the same brush.
no great mystery no matter what a million diet and exercise "secrets" try to sell themselves to us as.
there are far too many attitudes saying its ok to be fat and its not really your fault, so you don't need to do anything about it.
it doesn't mean however that a)eating less calories than you use won't make you lose weight or b)that there are no health dangers associated with obesity.
i do ten miles hill walking every day, and play football at weekends.
and wasn't feeling confident and  happy one of the main reasons you wanted to lose weight in the first place?
schwarzkopf had mi removed as a measure and incorporated an objective test.
find out more inour blog post.
if i eat exactly the same, i'll lose a pound a week if i exercise every day.
i am not losing any weight (nor do i want to).
if you make the decision or are in the habit of buying rubbish food (ready made meals, ready made sauces, tinned soup, junkfood, take aways, soft drinks, heaps of alcohol, sweets, cakes, crips and so on), the chances are that you will eat/drink it.
being fit and healthy isn't all about weight for height and age.
there is evidence that excess weight does contribute to various health conditions, so it is important from a preventative point of view to encourage and educate people sooner rather than later that being overweight does have serious quality of life issues.
no, you're not, you're really not.
22 february 2012 11:47amresponse to mistertom, 22 february 2012
instead we think: "i'm obviously not losing this weight as i should, so i may as well give in and stuff my face."
i'd rather be plump and fill out the wrinkles than look skeletal like demi moore, victoria beckham et al.
muscle never, ever, turns to fat.
absolutely except that increasing the calories expended side of the equation wouldn't have the same effect.
i don't eat ready meals, prepared sauces etc etc etc.
if someone is eating a lot of junk food and not exercising then it is going to lead to poor health, but there are many cases of people who have not achieved a so-called healthy weight but whose other health readings – blood pressure and cholesterol for instance – are within a healthy range.
11:37am the problem is that a lot of people do a bit of exercise, and then 'reward' themselves by consuming more calories.
11:49am i too am fed up with the current obsession about weight, obesity and the unreal skinny women hailed in the media as icons of beauty.
does it make you feel good about yourself?
double whammy, since muscle burns more calories than fat, so the process tends to accelerate.
i'm not surprised to read the latest news that there has been an overstatement on how long it will take people to lose weight.
" "i'm such a useless failure."
i'm a working on it fatty.)
a lot of people seem to equate a desire to be slim and healthy with media-induced anorexia.
11:31am you're following all the rules, giving it your all and yet the scales turn round and blow a raspberry at you.
and simply  cutting back on calories won't work in the long term because the body willslow  its metabolic rate.
the problem is people are unwilling to take responsibility and do something in these earlier stages and make the lifestyle choices to ensure they maintain a reasonable weight.
it stigmatises people who don't fit into the "acceptable" range, regardless of whether these people are healthy or not.
a real pregnant stick insect but his bmi showed he was in good weight range, so he continued .
having said that there are an awful lot of lazy people out there.
http://www.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/nejm199212313272701 22 february 2012 11:33amresponse to ecotekno, 22 february 2012
you start to feel great!
anyone who has  tried even one diet will be familiar with the dieters' plateau.
what happens is that people stop exercising but do not reduce their calorific intake.
heavily muscled individuals will be considerably heavier due to the density of muscle tissue.
we are built to run and walk almost all day, the fact most spend their time on the sofa is the problem not what they are eating.
my point is, that none of these people would ever dream of commenting if i had gained weight instead.
but if i see myself becoming bigger than i would like, then i cut down on those treats, up the veg, lower the pasta.
instead of demonising people for being fat we should start focussing instead on health.
i'd hazard a guess and say the basic laws of thermodynamics may have something to do with it...
a little tolerance would go a long way...
read some gary taubes and understand insulin resistance and it will all become much easier.
when you see primary school kids eating a couple of bags crisps and drinking fizzy drinks on the way to school (whilst with their mother) at 8.30am it isnot ok and excuses should not be made for the behaviour of these parents.
i'm confident and content.
thus as you lose weight, you require less calories to maintain your weight.
11:47am sorry still rather incoherent in my previous post.
and you already have self control but mediumsam's point is more valid for fat people.
the bmi is a simple and pretty effective proxy for obesity but it does not work for certain sub-populations (for instance sporty people, with more muscles than the average).
people need to eat more fat, like avocados, olive oil, nuts and animal fats, if you're restricting fat intake your body is going to cling on to what it can for survival, if you eat nothing but carbs your body composition is going to be poor no matter how much weight you lose through caloric restriction, excess carbs =
i could get into all the smaller sized clothes i once only dreamed of.
by fighting to out-conservative each other on social issues, this cranky crew just gifted obama a win on jobs and the economy timothy garton ash: to avoid depression, greece needs a strategy for growth steve bell: steve bell on the greek bailout zoe williams: this coriolanus-style fight to be london's mayor does nothing for politics find the latest jobs in your sector: browse all jobs london | £41,624 pa shelter slimming clubs are a 'straitjacket'?
linda bacon and lucy aphramor have done some great work in this area and i'd love to see more health professionals take this approach.
22 february 2012 11:28amresponse to bookfan, 22 february 2012 11:22am if you make the decision or are in the habit of buying rubbish food (ready made meals, ready made sauces, tinned soup, junkfood, take aways, soft drinks, heaps of alcohol, sweets, cakes, crips and so on), the chances are that you will eat/drink it.
22 february 2012 11:29am i just remebered general schwarzkopf.
then the us army bought in bmi and even he was told to lose weight.
and i'm not preaching atkins or low carb because those diets are unhealthy in the long run, i'm preaching whole foods, real foods, omelet for breakfast with lots of real butter, tuna/chicken/salmon and avocado salad for lunch with lots of olive oil, and a grass-fed steak with spinach for dinner or a bolognaise with sweet potato instead of pasta, once you find the right balance you'll realise that eating healthily can also be eating lush foods!
22 february 2012 11:42am i think everyone going back and forth between "don't eat crap" and "diets don't work" are missing the main point of the article, which is that being overweight according to official guidelines should not be considered to be a moral failing.
health should be the measure which can include weight but not weight alone.
it is pure voodoo masquerading as a scientific measure.
this show has come in forcriticism in the  past because of its unrealistic portrayal of weight loss and such unrealistic  expectations just create anxiety.
which is the classic mistake, diets don't work (in the long-term), only lifestyle change work.
i eat 1800kcal per day, usually.
don't torture yourself with diets or with standing on a pair of scales.
the idea  that we simply cut consumption by x number of calories isn't leading to the  expected benefits.
training once a week, game every other week more or less.
we may see a reduction in obesity rates, we may not – but isn't it the obesity-related illnesses we really want to reduce, rather than simply berating people because their bodies don't fit in with guidelines, which are currently in doubt?
if you take what pollan says and add in regular exercise.
a few years ago i was ill and a consequence of that was i lost a lot of weight.
it is usually takes some time to put on significant amounts of weight.
feeling good is more about how we feel in our bodies as we go about our busy days not just how we look in the mirror.
i eat too much of my mostly healthy food, i know that.
and simply cutting back on calories won't work in the long term because the body willslow its metabolic rate.
eat fresh home cooked food without additives, make an effort to move on a daily basis.
using rugbymen in the present context is very similar to mentioning genetic abnormalities.
turn autoplay off turn autoplay on please activate cookies in order to turn autoplay off do we really want to sacrifice our health in order to pursue a goal of weight loss that may well be a blind alley?
for what it is worth (it is an old article from the annals of internal medicine ,2000): http://www.annals.org/content/133/2/92.1.short a randomized, controlled trial was set up to look into' the effects of diet- or exercise-induced weight loss on the reduction of obesity and related comorbid condition'.
it is focusing on a particular unrepresentative tree and missing the rest of the forest.
it would have a better effect.
22 february 2012 11:24am there's a guy in my office, around the same age as me, who eats junk food, drinks loads of alcohol, does no exercise and is happily in the correct ("healthy") bmi range for his height.
according to bmi the entire nfl and afl was unfit for military service as were most pro basket ball players and baseball players.
insulin = fat retention it's time we learned the truth that grains are unhealthy!
i'm sure that's something everyone would agree is a worthwhile pursuit.
it's not that easy...
22 february 2012 11:08am some sense here.
but i would warn of the following pitfall a certain idiot man i used to know was a pro at: skinny as hell arms, legs and chest but with a big belly.
if you used to train ten hours a week and now exercise only 5 hours a week at lower intensity, adjust your intake to compensate.
22 february 2012 11:34am this is just a prediction, but here goes...
many of them would be deemed unhealthily overweight, but they are far fitter than (most) of the rest of us!
i definitely don't think i'm healthier & happier than everyone!
i grill my meat & fish.
however what most people will do is go to say a not very hard class twice a week, burning say 600-800 calories and then think this gives them licence to pig out on what they want.
often the same friends will go out of their way to praise the 'curvy' figures of women who are, quite frankly, overweight.
it has been shown that obese people who fail to lose weight under report both the amount of calories they consume and the amount of exercise they do.
the idea that we simply cut consumption by x number of calories isn't leading to the expected benefits.
so find exercise that you actually like and look forward to, whether it's team sports, classes at a gym, jogging with a friend or solo workouts, and keep doing it.
to hold weight  loss up as the path to health can bedangerous.
it stigmatises people who don't fit into the "acceptable"  range, regardless of whether these people are healthy or not.
22 february 2012 11:10amresponse to wotever, 22 february 2012
and then you can help us to improve our health.
it should make you feel great and get you back to where you should be physiologically a huge part is responsibility though and far to many people lack this in droves 22 february 2012 11:22am silly article.
and since when was fat unhealthy?
too simplistic, your weight, when used, not in isolation but in context with a range of other measures can be helpful to understand what is happening.