search this site search the web recipes & menus popular recipes cookies chicken pasta desserts drinks  appetizers lunch dinner under 30 minutes
jeff yeager is the author of the cheapskate next door and the ultimate cheapskate's road map to true riches.
* bananas potassium for pennies.
zucchini okay, they're a type of squash (above).
flower arranging table settings napkin
wine well, at least the stuff i drink: 5-liter box (approximately 11 pounds) for about 10 bucks, on sale.
* pasta store special @ .89 a pound i nearly bought them out!
* barley a tasty alternative to rice and potatoes.
it's often the stuff that's bad for us (at least in large quantities) red meat, fatty dairy products, and processed foods high in trans saturated fats that cost the most, on a per-pound basis to prove my point, i've put together this list of 50 healthy foods that i've purchased at least once in the last six months for under $1 a pound.
whether you want to make them from scratch or just want to use them in some stellar dishes, try one of these amazing pretzel recipes.
video: april 7, 2012 crafty easter decorations » these do-it-yourself decorations are egg-ceptional!
split peas add a hambone and make the ultimate comfort soup.
* chicken whole or various parts, on sale.
all privacy settings are controlled by facebook.
11 perfect pretzel recipes » pretzels are the perfect snack.
the pros/cons of that debate aside, for most people with a limited budget, the choice isn't whether or not to buy expensive organic, it's whether or not to eat highly processed crap like fast food or eat inexpensive healthy foods like those on my list.
* mangoes high in fiber and vitamins a, b6, and c. * milk yep, on a per-pound basis, milk still costs well under $1 a pound.
try it in theslow cooker!
back-to-school eats » we have breakfasts, lunches, and snacks your kids will love.
* bok choy steam and serve with a little soy sauce.
* carrots raw or steamed; rich in carotenes, a healthy antioxidant.
my recipebook delish cooking  school delish cupcakes by color the essential wine guide martha  stewart's recipes appetite for life easter breakfast spring treats hints &  help recipe videos measurement equivalents ingredient equivalents substitution  ideas metric conversions freshness guide
* turkey a popular bargain-priced loss leader around the holidays.
* yams/sweet potatoes one of the healthiest foods you can eat, and usually available year around for under $1 a pound.
the "loss leaders"), the sale items that are usually on the front page of the weekly circular most stores publish.
folding food in the news blogs food in the news best of the food blogs  news & events award-winning recipes chefs & shows taste of place  kitchen cookoff world's best chefs dinner & a dvd chefs at home parties & holidays holidays easter cinco de mayo mother's day memorial day  father's day fourth of july labor day halloween thanksgiving hanukkah christmas  new year's valentine's day parties baby showers bridal showers cocktail  parties dinner parties graduation grilling and barbecue kids' parties picnics  weddings super bowl parties special features invitations & ecards coupons & deals coupons fun & games quizzes games recipe contests my recipebook my recipebook create a recipe
peanut butter special sale price, but stock up because it usually has a long shelf life.
in fact, i live and shop in the washington, dc, metro area, which has one of the highest costs of living (and groceries) in the country.
oatmeal the good old-fashioned "slow-cooking" kind...that takes all of five minutes.
spinach frozen (but popeye doesn't care).
* liver chicken livers usually cost under $1 a pound, and sometimes beef and pork liver can be found in the dmz ("dollar maximum zone").
under $1 a pound, year-round that'smy grocery shopping mantra.
perhaps the perfect food: healthy, cheap, and versatile (thinksoups, salads, sandwich spreads and those are only some of the "s" possibilities).
* cucumbers try peeling, seeding, and steaming with a little butter and salt.
no, none of the items on my under-$1-a-pound list are organically grown.
see the dirty dozen foods with the most pesticides to maximize organic purchases.
now look at all the money you've saved!
just make these recipes at home.
when you look at the usda "food pyramid," many of the things we should be eating the most of grains, legumes, fruits, and vegetables happen to costthe least.
onions try baking them whole in a cream sauce.
* greens kale, mustard, turnip, and collard greens are rich in vitamins and a good source of fiber.
* sweet corn canned, or fresh on the cob, in season.
text size: a | a | atext size: a | a | a » more from recipes & menus - more post a comment when using facebook connect your image and name may display on delish.
my shopping lists my  cookchat™ home
rice white for under $1 a pound; brown, a little more expensive but better for you.
* asparagus huge store special at 99 cents a pound during easter week.
so rev up your shopping cart, but be careful: there's a green cheapskate loose on aisle five!
* celery stir-fry it for a change.
(try this recipe for summer corn fritters.)
oranges frequent sale price when in season.
* watermelon whole, in-season melons can sometime cost less than 20 cents a pound if they're on sale and you find a big one.
that's because, as a general rule of thumb, i try to only buy foodstuff that costs under a buck per pound.
other items on the list were "store specials," and typically would cost more than $1 a pound, and/or they were in season so cost less.
turnips make me think of my grandparents, who always grew them.
it's not just because i'm a world-class penny-pincher and smart shopper; believe it or not, it's also about eating healthier.
top features in recipes & menus: » see more recipes & menus classic desserts for every occasion » there are a few beloved, time-honored desserts that every good cook should master.
rutabagas hated them as a kid; can't get enough of them now.
mash 'em up as a healthy sandwich spread.
* bulgur wheat try it inpilaf or a tabbouleh salad.
beans canned or dried: kidney, pinto, navy, black, red, and many more.
if you're on a heart-healthy diet, you don't have to skip the mexican dishes.
grapefruit bake with a little brown sugar on top for a healthy dessert.
daikon radish my new favorite raw veggie.
i plan my meals around the-best-of-the-best weekly store specials (a.k.a.
broccoli yes, a store special.
no, i'm not saying that all of these items are available in every store, at all times.
usually closer to $2 per pound.
* napa cabbage delicious steamed or raw in a salad.
heart-healthy mexican recipes »
i shop only once every week or two, and i usually shop at only one or two stores.
* grapes store special @ .99 a pound.
(btw, the beer i drink is even less expensive per pound.)
but i love them so much they deserve their own place on the list.
i bought 10 pounds, blanched it, and then froze it.
but they certainly can be the backbone around which to plan healthy, inexpensive menus for your family.
* potatoes white and red baked, mashed, boiled, broiled, steamed.
eggs don't overdo them, but eggs provide high-quality protein and still cost about $1 per pound.
first, a few disclaimers about my list-o-50: no, i don't live on another planet or in a part of the country where the cost of living is deflated.
* squash try baking acorn squash with a little brown sugar.
no, i don't burn up a lot of time and gas by running around to a lot of different grocery stores, and i rarely use coupons.
if you are what you eat, then i should weigh in at under $1 a pound.
by jeff yeager provided by: photo credit martin koch/istock more from thedailygreen.com
* cabbage green and red.
low calorie kids comfort food chinese  mexican special features recipe finder
* apples one a day keeps the cheapskate away.
buy an extra bird and freeze it for later.
his website is ultimatecheapskate.com.
* yogurt 8-ounce containers on sale two for $1.
connect with jeff yeager on twitter and facebook.
chickpeas also called garbanzo beans.
* cantaloupe no, sorry, i can't; i'm already married.
* green beans frozen, but fresh are sometimes on sale for under $1 a pound in season.
yes, you can eat the same ones you buy as holiday decorations, and they usually cost under 50 cents a pound.
sour cream 99 cents on sale, but long shelf life, so stock up.
many of the items on the list (e.g., most root vegetables, bananas, beans, etc.) can usually be purchased for under $1 pound even when not on sale or in season.
but if you shop carefully, you can always find at least some variety of these foods around which to plan your meals.
* pork inexpensive cuts of pork frequently go on sale for 99 cents per pound or less; sometimes evenham during the holidays.
latest: hopping for joy connect with us more options
if you're not a creative cook like me, try the advanced recipe search page, where you can enter the ingredients you have to work with and get all kinds of recipes.
canned are often better than fresh to use in cooking, and occasionally you can find fresh on sale for under a buck, in season.
no, i'm not saying that by eating only these foods you'll have a complete, healthy diet.
(plus, there are manyeggscellent things you can do with the shells.)
* cornmeal "polenta" is all the rage these days, but i loved it 40 years ago when mom called it "cornmeal mush."