as reported in a previous post, the new york city department of education (doe) recently passed a regulation banning home baked goods from being sold in schools for fund raising purposes with the exception of one pta run bake sale per month.
not so convinced and a bit confused by the bake sale ban, i asked some  questions at the “bake in” rally at city hall.
the government has attempted to implement this very strategy for decades – andfailed miserably.
so, in the spirit of the new york times “room for debate”  column, we present you with several varying opinions on new york city’s  bake-sale ban.
and of course, it’s  lamentable that the policy tacitly endorses prepackaged, processed snacks and  drums up extra business for the makers of doritos, poptarts, et al.
the issue is compounded by lack of exercise and minimal time spent at  the table and with family, but at the heart of this problem, it is what  children consume that is to blame.
one parent told me the funds were often used to support after school activities – just the kind that help prevent obesity.
ideally, we’d teach kids to make better food choices, and they’d do so despite the abundance and accessibility of junk food at bake sales and elsewhere.
instead, parents and students are allowed to choose from 27 approved snack items which they can buythrough costco or the doe – the same items which are regularly sold in school vending machines.
it’s difficult to argue that  brownies and cupcakes and cookies and rice crispy treats are optimal food  choices – or that such foods, when habitually consumed immoderately,  constitute anything but excess calories.
seeing those labels day after  day, they become commonplace, training minds and taste buds alike to prefer  hfcs and artificial flavors.
it’s difficult to argue that brownies and cupcakes and cookies and rice crispy treats are optimal food choices – or that such foods, when habitually consumed immoderately, constitute anything but excess calories.
this regulation has also sparked a bit of debate here at our office with varying opinions on whether the regulation is achieving its goal in reducing calories or merely encouraging students to indulge in junk food.
childhood obesity is at an all time high, with no end in sight.
on march 18th , there was a “bake-in” rally held at city hall bynyc green schools calling for an appeal of the regulation.
tags: bake sale bill de blasio fast food junk food new york city
home-baked, healthy kids by sophy bishop new york’s children, along with the rest of the nation’s, are  overweight – it’s awell known fact.
i’m no scientist, but  i’ve come to the conclusion that is it is junk food – mass  produced, over-consumed, nutrient-poor crap – that has caused this  epidemic.
so, in the spirit of the new york times “room for debate” column, we present you with several varying opinions on new york city’s bake-sale ban.
we need  education about food for kids and parents.
i think  putting our time, energy and money into national programs like “time for  lunch” is a better way to get to the core issues we need to fight the  childhood obesity issues for the long run.
there is no shiny advertising, no unpronounceable chemical and no major corporation influencing life-long decisions.
september 2005  august 2005  july 2005  june 2005  may 2005  april 2005  march  2005 our favorites an obsession with food & wine bitten
unfortunately, bake sales are an important source of revenue, so schools  are unwilling to cut back drastically, or reduce profits by restricting sales  to fruits and vegetables.
here’s the deal: 43% of nyc schoolchildren are overweight or obese  – this is a public health crisis that needs to be addressed immediately.
on march 18th , there was a “bake-in” rally held at city hall bynyc green schools  calling for an appeal of the regulation.
nevertheless, the current ban has merit from a public health perspective; sure, it’d be great if kids ate carrots – but given the obesity crisis, it’s better they eat somewhat-healthful snacks than exceptionally unhealthful snacks – homemade or otherwise.
these preferences get carried beyond the school and out into a lifetime.
these items include  doritos, pop tarts and linden’s cookies.
seeing those labels day after day, they become commonplace, training minds and taste buds alike to prefer hfcs and artificial flavors.
the cakes and cookies are often bought cheaply from stores like costco and target.
home-baked goods trump junk food any day, whether they contain more or less  calories than a pack of pop tarts.
we need more funds for schools.
the city’s solution: limit the frequency of no-treat-left-behind bake sales, and ban aggressively unhealthful foods from all the other bake sales.
they form a favor for fast meals, greasy meat  byproducts and fried food and a distaste for fresh, green vegetables.
limiting a child’s food intake will solve the problem,  right?
the obvious problem: homemade foods are prohibited from the latter  events – even if they’re more healthful than anything on the  city’s list of approved junklite foods.
ideally though, the  city would either exclude everything but fruit and veggies from the  “healthy” bake sales, or else develop criteria for inclusion of  healthful homemade foods.
or give schools adequate funding so that bake  sales wouldn’t be a financial imperative in the first place.
the most problematic information i came away with was that often the  “homemade” goods for sale weren’t actually homemade.
acceptable (marginally)
public advocate bill de blasio and council member gail brewer were in attendance along with parents and children fighting for the bake sale cause.
i’m no scientist, but i’ve come to the conclusion that is it is junk food – mass produced, over-consumed, nutrient-poor crap – that has caused this epidemic.
there is no shiny  advertising, no unpronounceable chemical and no major corporation influencing  life-long decisions.
unfortunately, many children and their parents are never taught the elements of a proper diet.
as a longtime proponent of freedom, homemade cookies and public policies  that don’t unduly pad the coffers of the industro-snack sector, i found  it tough to stomach the bake sale ban.
the most problematic information i came away with was that often the “homemade” goods for sale weren’t actually homemade.
obviously, there’s no quick-fix solution to the childhood obesity  epidemic; the problem is related to food access, consumption patterns, physical  activity, environmental factors, etc.  nonetheless, an effective policy  response must involve promoting healthful food choices and discouraging  consumption of excess calories.
the city’s solution: limit the frequency of no-treat-left-behind bake  sales, and ban aggressively unhealthful foods from all the other bake  sales.
nevertheless, the current ban has merit from a public health perspective;  sure, it’d be great if kids ate carrots – but given the obesity  crisis, it’s better they eat somewhat-healthful snacks than exceptionally  unhealthful snacks – homemade or otherwise.
we need education about food for kids and parents.
these preferences get carried beyond the school  and out into a lifetime.
home-baked goods foster community, culture, a love for cooking and eventually, a healthier america.
home-baked goods foster community, culture, a love for  cooking and eventually, a healthier america.
home-baked, healthy kids by sophy bishop new york’s children, along with the rest of the nation’s, are overweight – it’s awell known fact.
the regulation has caused quite a stir among new york parents.
but with no funds, no after school exercise.
unfortunately, many children and their parents are never taught the  elements of a proper diet.
limiting a child’s food intake will solve the problem, right?
time for real food by dawn brighid with a fundamentally broken school food system (and food systems in  general), i can see why banning the school bake sale feels like a little  control over a bad situation.
if we make the reasonable assumption that the doe can’t dramatically alter students’ food-purchasing preferences overnight, then a prudent policy approach would involve reducing the amount of unhealthful food available in schools – which would require the city to either limit the frequency of bake sales, or ensure that only healthful foods are sold.
do i think that a bake sale ban will resolve the obesity problem?
but as an advocate of efficient implementation of policies that effectively protect public health, i begrudgingly support the rule.
unfortunately, bake sales are an important source of revenue, so schools are unwilling to cut back drastically, or reduce profits by restricting sales to fruits and vegetables.
ideally, we’d teach kids to make better food choices, and  they’d do so despite the abundance and accessibility of junk food at bake  sales and elsewhere.
public advocate bill de blasio and  council member gail brewer were in attendance along with parents and children  fighting for the bake sale cause.
they surpass junk food because of what they  represent – care, time, seasonality and home-cooking.
the issue is compounded by lack of exercise and minimal time spent at the table and with family, but at the heart of this problem, it is what children consume that is to blame.
one parent told me the  funds were often used to support after school activities – just the kind  that help prevent obesity.
the government has attempted to implement this very  strategy for decades – andfailed miserably.
childhood obesity is at an all time high, with no  end in sight.
home-baked goods trump junk food any day, whether they contain more or less calories than a pack of pop tarts.
the great bake sale debate april 2nd, 2010 posted by no comments as reported in a previous post, the new york city department of education  (doe) recently passed a regulation banning home baked goods from being sold in  schools for fund raising purposes with the exception of one pta run bake sale  per month.
and of course, it’s lamentable that the policy tacitly endorses prepackaged, processed snacks and drums up extra business for the makers of doritos, poptarts, et al.
the  cakes and cookies are often bought cheaply from stores like costco and target.
tags: bake sale bill de blasio fast food junk food new  york city search archives select month  june 2010  may 2010  april 2010  march 2010   february 2010  january 2010  december 2009  november 2009  october 2009   september 2009  august 2009  july 2009  june 2009  may 2009  april 2009  march  2009  february 2009  january 2009  december 2008  november 2008  october 2008
as a longtime proponent of freedom, homemade cookies and public policies that don’t unduly pad the coffers of the industro-snack sector, i found it tough to stomach the bake sale ban.
september 2008  august 2008  july 2008  june 2008  may 2008  april 2008  march  2008  february 2008  january 2008  december 2007  november 2007  october 2007   september 2007  august 2007  july 2007  june 2007  may 2007  april 2007  march  2007  february 2007  january 2007  december 2006  november 2006  october 2006   september 2006  august 2006  june 2006  may 2006  april 2006  march 2006   february 2006  january 2006  december 2005  november 2005  october 2005
this regulation has also sparked a bit of  debate here at our office with varying opinions on whether the regulation is  achieving its goal in reducing calories or merely encouraging students to  indulge in junk food.
or give schools adequate funding so that bake sales wouldn’t be a financial imperative in the first place.
when the “authority” that is the doe says doritos are ok but home baked goods are not, it only enforces the scheme that junk food is what they should be eating.
here’s the deal: 43% of nyc schoolchildren are overweight or obese – this is a public health crisis that needs to be addressed immediately.
they form a favor for fast meals, greasy meat byproducts and fried food and a distaste for fresh, green vegetables.
but as an advocate of efficient  implementation of policies that effectively protect public health, i  begrudgingly support the rule.
the obvious problem: homemade foods are prohibited from the latter events – even if they’re more healthful than anything on the city’s list of approved junklite foods.
instead, parents and students are allowed to choose from 27 approved  snack items which they can buythrough costco or the doe – the same items  which are regularly sold in school vending machines.
these items include doritos, pop tarts and linden’s cookies.
they are then marked up and sold back to the kids.
do i think that a bake sale ban will  resolve the obesity problem?
if we make the  reasonable assumption that the doe can’t dramatically alter  students’ food-purchasing preferences overnight, then a prudent policy  approach would involve reducing the amount of unhealthful food available in  schools – which would require the city to either limit the frequency of  bake sales, or ensure that only healthful foods are sold.
i think putting our time, energy and money into national programs like “time for lunch” is a better way to get to the core issues we need to fight the childhood obesity issues for the long run.
(strangely, the fact that schools lack  sufficient funding to operate without supplemental bake-sale dollars has been  largely ignored throughout the debate.)
obviously, there’s no quick-fix solution to the childhood obesity epidemic; the problem is related to food access, consumption patterns, physical activity, environmental factors, etc.
(strangely, the fact that schools lack sufficient funding to operate without supplemental bake-sale dollars has been largely ignored throughout the debate.)
when the “authority” that is the doe  says doritos are ok but home baked goods are not, it only enforces the scheme  that junk food is what they should be eating.
not so convinced and a bit confused by the bake sale ban, i asked some questions at the “bake in” rally at city hall.
it seems like a quick fix to me.
they surpass junk food because of what they represent – care, time, seasonality and home-cooking.
ideally though, the city would either exclude everything but fruit and veggies from the “healthy” bake sales, or else develop criteria for inclusion of healthful homemade foods.
time for real food by dawn brighid with a fundamentally broken school food system (and food systems in general), i can see why banning the school bake sale feels like a little control over a bad situation.
nonetheless, an effective policy response must involve promoting healthful food choices and discouraging consumption of excess calories.
we need real food in the schools.