a thin-crust pizza, commonly called "east coast" or  "new york" style, is made with just a few toppings like pizza made in  naples...
but long before this--eons before the europeans arrived--pecans were an important item in the diet of native americans living in the south-central region of north america.
slide your two hands under the dough to transfer it to a tart pan that has been generously buttered; with the ends of your fingers, press the dough into the bottom and particularly onto the fluted sides the fold the dough over the sides and pass the rolling pin over it to cut off the excess.
sedentary turkish people such as the uzbeks and the people of turkey itself usually bake their samsas, but nomads such as the kazakhs fry them...
arab traders also spread the lemon eastward to china...
the indian version is merely the best known of  an entire family of stuffed pastries or dumplings popular from egypt and  zanzibar to c. asia and w. china.
in 1963 newspapers across america heralded a "new" frozen pie crust sold in 9-inch tins; without referencing brand or company.
the first, coffee souffle pie, qualifies on all counts as a chiffon pie...
later in the book she gives instructions for a cheshire pork pie to be made at sea, with salt pork, and potatoes instead of apples; and this pie is clearly a double crust pie made in a dish.
flavor with essence of lemon or lemon rind, and a good pinch of powdered mace.
when europeans introduced the sweet potato to africa, (already familiar with yams), native cooks gave this similar-looking vegetable the same name.
this probably means the  eclair is a product of food evolution.
later in the century, chefs devised variations, using pear, pineapple, or rhubarb, to give but three examples."
riccardo ate what raoul had wrought and got violently ill.
they may be square in shape like ravioli or in half-moon or  oblong shapes.
the empanada festival is one of this region's major  annual events.
in afghanistan, where the  name is sambosa, and in the turkish-speaking nations, where is its called  samsa...it is made both in half-moon shapes and triangles.
lay some butter on the top, close your pie, and send it to the oven.
sanbusak, an arabic word that comes from the persian sanbusa, meaning anything triangular, was first described as a stuffed pastry in the early ninth century by ishaq ibn ibrahim (d. 851), a well known author from iraq...
cook in double boiler until thick.
roll out dough on a floured surface to a 16-by-12-inch rectangle.
" ---larousse gastronomique, completely revised and updated [clarkson potter:new york] 2001 (p. 957) "a quiche is a pastry cooked a cooked savoury custard containing items such as vegetables, bacon, or cheese.
post's country squares had  evolved into post toast-em pop-ups, but post finally gave up and sold the  marketing rights in the early 1970s.
18th century english cookbooks list lemon cakes as a recipe variation for orange cakes (mrs. raffald,the experienced english housekeeper [1769].
bake at mark 7, 220 degrees c (425 degrees f), for 20-30 minutes, then lower the heat to mark 3, 160 degrees c (325 degrees f), and leave for a further 45 minutes, or until the pork feels tender when tested with a larding needle or skewer through the central hole in the pastry lid."
the term 'choux' had not settled down
although it is most often known as a  pissaladiere, it is what it is: a round, flat bread, crisp on the bottom,  simply garnished on top, rustic and yet urbane.
the reason why the sgraffito poi scheussel or pie plate of earthenware was so much used was because of the dutch ovens so generally in use.
this turnover is usually made large enough to feed six.
already the cheese and tomato-topped  "pies," which made their debut in bean town three months ago, are  available for 49 cents each in a few stores here, including kaboolian's market,  389 avenue of the americas, and philip's quality market, 80-28 thirty-seventh  avenue, jackson heights, queens.
the ad  reads "new pop tarts drop'em into the toaster or eat'em just as they are.
henry ate his sweet potatoes in heavily spiced and sugared pies, a fashion that survived at least until the 1680s.
[firefly books:buffalo] 1999 (p. 350) "...on the more modest end of the culinary scale, we come to buckwheat, which was primarily consumed in the villages.
perhaps this is what the the first cobbler resembled?
lots of our readers sent in this one.
shortcrust pastry 1 kilo (2 lb) boned loin of pork 4 rashers (2 lb) streaky green bacon, chopped 250 g (8 oz) chopped onion salt, pepper, nutmeg 275 g (12 oz) cox's orange pippins, or similar dessert apple brown sugar butter 150 ml (1/4 pt) white wine, dry cider or light ale beaten egg or top of milk, to glaze line a 1 1/4 litre (about 2 pt) capacity pie dish with pastry.
sewell was a lover of and an expert on mexican cuisine.
the tip of this complicated linguistic puzzle!]
in some parts of lorraine any pastry tart filled with migaine (eggs and cream) mixed with onions, cream cheese or pumpkin is called a quiche, and elsewhere quiches can be made with cheese, ham, bacon, onion, mushrooms, seafood and various other ingredients.
it was just a matter of time before frozen pizzas were competing with  tv dinners for space on the consumer's ubiquitous living room feeding tray.
the word timbale, which in the early days was only applied to individual drinking cups, has taken on a much wider meaning, and is used to describe all sorts of bowls, of metal, earthenware and china, lagrer than those that our fathers used at table, which were of a size to serve two guests together ...
about gateau saint honore gateau saint honore, a confection of two kinds of pastry with a cream filling.
our tests centered on  the four most popular pizza styles.
perhaps the earliest extant english receipt if found ina book of cookrye (1591) first published in 1584.
the oxford english dictionary confirms the 1798 date reference above: "5.
the meat should be made into a thick mince of the usual kind with stock or gravy...or it may be mixed with onion sauce, or any other which may be sent to table with meat.
when beginning to set, beat hard, fold in the egg-whites and cream, both stiffly beaten.
whip until stiff: 4 egg whites, 1/4 teaspoon salt.
press the edges  closely, ornament them in any way, and brush the turnovers with white of egg.
dinner year-book, marion harland
i talk to people that's much older and as far back as they can remember they've had meat pies.
if you'd just see one laying there on the plate, you wouldn't think it was that much trouble.'...
this must have no top crust.
there are fresh pizza, warm-over pizza, refrigerated pizza, warm-over pizza and frozen pizza, selling everywhere from sidearm joints to pizza palaces.
---biscuits, spoonbread, and sweet potato pie, bill neal [alfred a. knopf:new york] 1996 (p. 275) "a pie can always be turned out for dessert as long as there are lemons in the house, and american cooks have devised many recipes.
she says that if the sugar does pack some from nonuse, "i just run a fork or knife through it to fluff it."
" ---food and drink in great britain from the stone age to the nineteenth century, c. anne wilson
the only clue to earlier origins for pecan pie that i've been able to unearth is this syrup pie recipe published infrom north carolina kitchens, favorite recipes old and new published in 1953 by the north carolina federation of home demonstration clubs.
the word shows up for the first time in print as  a neapolitan dialect word--piza or picea--about 1000 a.d., possibly referring  to the manner in which something is plucked from a hot oven...
" ---royal cookery book, jules gouffe, translated by alphonse goufee [sampson low, son, & marston:london] 1869 (p. 517) "meringue with coffee cream whip 6 whites of egg, and, when very firm, mix in 1/2 lb. of pounded sugar; cut 5 rounds of paper, 6 1/2 inches diameter; put the meringue in a paper funnel, and press it out on each round of paper into rings 5 1/2 inches in diameter; sprinkle some sifted sugar over the rings, and put them on baking boards in the oven; when they are of a nice yellow colour, turn the rings over on to a baking-sheet, and dry them in a slack oven; make some geonoise paste, as directed for timbale de genoise with orange jelly (vide page 527); when the paste is done and cold, cut out a round, 5 1/2 inches diameter, and put the 5 rings of meringue on it, one above the other; reduce 1 gill of strong coffee and 1/4 lb. of sugar to a syrup registering 36 degrees f.; when cold, add it to one quart of well-whipped double cream; fill the centre of the meringue with this cream, piling it up 2 inches above the meringue; and serve.
"legend has it that neapolitan pizzailo raffaele esposito of the  pizzeria de pietro was the first to make a pie with tomato, basil, and  mozzarella pizza (the colors of the italian flag) to honor the visit of queen  margherita, consort of king umberto i, to naples in 1889.
cook in the top of a double-boiler until thickened.
but the true gourmand, is not satisfied with a timbale whose crust is not edible; when served with a real timbale, this gourmand enjoys not only the contents but the container too.
early recipes varied according to  culture, cuisine, and liturgical season (lent, christmas).
stromboli is a resort island off the coast of  sicily that features an active smoldering volcano.
" culinary evidence confirms turnover-type recipes precede their appellation  in both british and american culinary texts.
i seriously doubt that any book could date the exact origin of the word.
young blackie, waiter at tom's pizzeria napolitana, who tells you how tom and his wife, molly, took him off the street ten years ago, made known the other specialties of the place--stuffed macaroni, eggplant parmigiano, and cannoli, an italian dessert, with sweet, cold italian cottage cheese served in a fold of ice cream cone like pastry." ---"front views and profiles," june provines,chicago daily tribune, october 17, 1939 (p. 17)
if we can trust the title of the recipe, congordes, and if we think of the depictions of squash (zucche) harvests in the many manuscripts comprising the tacuinum sanitatis--a medical treatise of arab origin that lists the medicinal properties of various foods--the cook is probably dealing here with gourds (lagenaria vulgaris).
a parisian gateau, saint honore takes its name from the patron saint of bakers and pastrycooks.
have some pounded sugar that is quite dry, break the white of the eggs into a clean and very deep pan, break them without loss of time, tell they are very firm, then take as many spoonsful of sugar as you have whites, and beat them lightly with the eggs till the whole is well mixed.
---"many uses for lemons,"dr.
[crown:new york] 1988 (p. 777-8) these are the facts: "the real creation of choux paste is complex and cannot be established with any certainty, not least because its manufacture is a relatively simple process and it is possible that it was independently created in many places and at various times.
[oxford university press:oxford] 2002 (p. 75) "from the sixteenth century onwards convents made biscuits and fritters to be sold in the aid of good works...
pour into a pie plate lined with uncooked pastry.
escoffier also provides a recipe for quiches au jambon.]
" ---encyclopedia of american food and drink, john f. mariani [lebhar-friedman:new york] 1999 (p. 87)
the genesis might belong to german settlers recreating nusstorte in the lone star state.
just pop them in the oven until crisply touched with brown--about 8 minutes, serve.
after baking in the oven they are served piping hot, and a slav will betray his origins by adding the crust and adding just a little more butter.
with the rolling pin, roll out the dough as for a tart into a nice round pancake that has an even thickness of at least 12 centimeter (3/16 inch) and a diameter of 25-26 centimeters (10-10 1/2 inches).
leafing through 1930s cookbooks, i find four chiffon pies in my better homes & gardens cook book (1939); lemon, chocolate, pineapple, and pumpkin.
" ---cassell's new universal cookery book, lizzie heritage
divide the dough into eight equal balls, cover with a moistened cloth and set to one side in a cool place for about half an hour.
when they be boiled tender draw them through a strainer, wine and all, and then put in the yolks of eight eggs, and the brains of three or four cock sparrows, and strain them into the other, and a little rose water.
[academy chicago:chicago] 1991 (p. 148) the 1938 edition of larousse gastronomique tell us that meringue was invented in 1720 by a swiss pastry chef named gasparani.
in french, the word eclair means a flash of lightning.
"pot pies are as old as pastry-making itself.
if karo did not originate pecan pie, it certainly popularized the recipe as a rifle through twentieth-century cookbooks large and small quickly suggests.
meringue beat whites of 2 eggs unitl stiffl.
it seems likely that the earliest use of the term in england was by was of imported translations of french seventeenth-century cookery books.
chill the custard, add one cup coarsley broken peanc meats, one teaspoon vanilla, and turn into a baked crisp pie crust.
" ---best recipes from the backs fo boxes, bottles, cans and jars, ceil dyer
beat egg yolks until light and thick, mix with condensed milk and add limeade and vanilla.
a sideline of italian bakeries at the turn of the century, a tomato pie was baked in a large rectangular pan with 1-inch-high sides.
[oxford university press:oxford] 2002 (p. 310-1) what is amish shoofly?
modern usa fuzziness between sweet potatoes & yams is not a matter of linguistic, social or botanical heritage.
you decide... "tarte tatin, an upside-down french apple tart.
a check of the pizzas for extraneous  matter also yielded disquieting results--about 96 per cent of the samples  tested contained some quantity of insects or insect fragments.
"in present day english, cottage pie is an increasingly popular sysnonym forshepherd's pie, a dish of minced meat with a topping of mashed potato.
beat the eggs very light, and stir them into the butter and sugar, alternately with the sweet potato.
the name travelled to england almost at once and first appeared in print there in 1706....
place over a gentle heat so as to warm the mixture slightly and whisk until it is thick enough to hold its shape between the wires of the whisk.
pare, quarter, and core six large apples, put them into a sauce-pan with a little water and lemon-peel, cover them close, and stew them gently till they are tender; take out the lemon-peel, and with a spoon put in a tea-spoonful of rose water, make a nice puff paste, roll in out thin to any small size you please, put in a little of the apple, turn the paste over, and close them with a knife; cut them either three-corner ways or square, or in any shape you please, ice them, and bake them in a moderate overn or tin or iron plates.
whip cream & spread over top of pie.--annie hicks.
[1805] "to make a pot pie.
required: for a medium-sized  pie, a pound and a half of pork, the same weight of paste, about a teaspoonful  and a half of salt, or, for some, two teaspoonfuls will be none too much,  nearly as much pepper, and herbs if approved, and a little gravy.
sufficient.—the proportions for 1 pie  are 1 lb. of flour and 3 lbs.
italian immigrants built commercial bakeries and backyard ovens to produce bread they had eaten in italy.
beyond mere preference, howevers, there was a practical reason for making pies, especially in the harsh and primitive conditions endured by the first colonists.
mode.—rub into the flour a portion of the lard; the remainder put with  sufficient milk and water to mix the crust, and boil this gently for 1/4 hour.
nabisco's  toastettes, which debuted in 1967, have survived and were recently  repositioned, according to a nabisco spokesman, meaning they now come eight to  a box and can be microwaved.
pirozhki (pierogi in poland) come in a variety of shapes including  small half-moons, and may be either fried or baked.
we also find evidence of refrigerated pizza products penetrating grocery  stores.
"for the best results, the pastry must be rolled paper thin, and the oil for frying must be very hot.
" --- dining with william shakespeare, madge lorwin
pioneer cook: a historical view of canadian prairie food, b. barss [detselig enterprises:calgary alberta] 1980 (p. 111) sample recipes: 1877 & 1899.
beat the egg whites until stiff but not dry, then gradually stir in remaining sugar.
the soft, baked crispy dough that the neapolitans called sfiziosa would be folded over into a libretto (little book) and consumed in the hand.
[vintage books:new york] 1981, 2nd edition (p. 465-6) [includes recipe] many 17th and 18th century cookbooks contain recipes for lemon custard, pudding (sometimes served in a puff-paste base), pies, and tarts.
if all you need is a basic overview of the history of african yams, ask your librarian to help you find this article: "west african prehistory," s. k. mcintosh,american scientist 69 (6): 160 1981 about sweet potatoes "sweet potato...the most important of the tropical root crops, is the starch tuber of a vine of the concolcus and morning glory family.
heap them on a serving tray, hot from the oven, and watch them disappear.
tuscany's schiacciata...was first roasted on stones by  the ancestral etruscans...
modern interpretation here: "abigail adams' pumpkin pie 1 1/2 cups pumpkin 3/4 cup brown sugar, firmly packed 1/2 teaspoon fresh ginger root, grated 1 teaspoon freshly grated nutmeg 1/2 teaspoon salt 1 cup heavy cream 3/4 cup
as soon as they begin to colour remove them from the oven: take each slip of paper by the two ends, and turn it gently on a table; take off a little of the middle with a small spoon.
in ancient iraq there was sanbusaq.
"the term cottage pie, often confused with shepherd's pie but probably denoting a similar dish made with minced beef, has a somewhat longer history and is similarly effective in evoking a rural and traditional context.
" ---the thirteen colonies cookbook, mary donovan et al, [montclair historical society:montclair nj] 1975 (p. 34) [note:
this dish is called bird's nest pudding or crow's nest pudding in new england; it is served with a custard by no topping in connecticut, with maple sugar in massachusetts, and with a sour sauce in vermont.
karavaj...is a large, round loaf that was part of the traditional offering of bread and salt, the russian gesture of hospitality; rastegai is a small open-faced pastry with a fish filling htat was customarily served with ukhas and other fish soups; kurnik is another festive pie, one that was often served at weddings.
to make the filling: beat the egg yolks, lime juice and condensed milk until smooth and creamy.
(the covering was not meant to be eaten; it filled the role of what was later called puff paste')
whip the egg white almost stiff and then gradually add the sugar and continue whipping until very stiff.
battle creek michigan
insouthern food: at home, on the road, in history (1987)...john egerton writes: "we have heard the claim that louisianans were eating pecan candies before 1800, and with sugar and syrup produced from cane at that time, it is conceivable theat they were eating pecan pies, too, but there are no recipes or other bits of evidence to prove it."...
when the apples are very soft, the crust brown, and the liquor quite low, turn the crust bottom upwards in a large dish, put the apples evenly over it, strew on a large handful of brown sugar, and eat it warm or cold, with sweet milk.
all sweet tarts the beaten crust if best; but as you fancy.
take a loin  of pork, skin it, cut it into stakes, season it with salt, nutmeg, and pepper;  make a good crust, lay a layer of pork, and then a large layer of pippins pared  and cored, a little sugar, enough to sweeten the pye, then another layer of  pork; put in half a pint of white wine, lay some butter on the top, and close  your pye: if your pye be large, it will take a pint of white wine."
" ---"'round the food stores: for a  look at the latest ideas," lois baker,chicago daily tribune, july  12, 1957 (p. b17) [1966] "for a teenage get-together or a family supper,  you can't go wrong when you serve miniature pizzas.
"the british pork pie...are survivals of the medieval tradition of  raised pies, and have changed surprisingly little.
with one recipe you get 30 pizzas--to bake and serve or store in the freezer for a spur-of-the-moment gathering.
candied yams were sometimes served with marshmallows.
nothing is known of the actual pastry used, but the greeks certainly recognized the trade of pastry-cook as distinct from that of baker.
the bones and trimmings of the pork may be stewed  to make gravy, which should be boiled until it will jelly when cold, and when  this has been nicely flavoured, a little may be poured into the pie after it is  baked through an opening made in the top.
w. stewart pinkerton,wall street journal, july 2, 1969 (p. 1) "in the beginning, of course, a frisbee was a tin plate holding a pie that was produced by the thousands in a bridgeport bakery.
[in the 18th century]  to today's meaning...
pour into pie shell, and chill until well set.
make a thick custard as for banana cream pie, using brown sugar instead of white, and adding two tablespoons butter.
travel through the regions of france with your eyes open for anything that looks like pizza, and you'll come back impressed not only by how plentiful these pizzas are but also by their variety.
when you serve them up, put in with a tunnell to as many of them as you please, a little thick sweet cream.
slightly larger than a silver dollar (or rather, a french franc) and so thin as to be almost diaphanous, it seems as though it might shatter if breathed upon.
1702 f.  massialot court & country cook 207
victory [supermarket] will supply free of charge...your choice of any two jell-o pie fillings.
gourmet (octyober 1971) even published a recipe for cranberry-carrot dessert quiche to be served with whipped cream.
grate loaf sugar over it when done, and send it to table warm or cold, with cream sauce or boiled custard.
cream the butter and sugar; add the yolks, spice and lemon.
" ---oxford encyclopedia of food and drink in america, andrew smith editor [oxford university press:new york] 2004 (p. 272)
lasyone's continues to thrive!]
"too make sring tarts take oringes, pare them not too thin.
heavenly lime pie 1 1/2 cups granulated sugar 1/4 tsp.
throwing empty pie plates was popular on college student diversion during the great depression.
the arabs seem to have been largely responsible for the spread of lemon cultivation in the mediterranean region...
her instructions are vague, but it is placed among  the dish pies (raised pies start six recipe later).
in american cuisine, shoofly pie is a sort of treacle tart, made with molasses or brown sugar and topped with a sugar, flour, and butter crumble.
france copied the art from the germans, and so did england...
[1828] contains several recipes which might been precursors.
" ---cassell's new universal cookery book, lizzie  heritage
the romans made a plain pastry of flour, oil, and water to cover meats and fowls which were baked, thus keeping in the juices.
pizza also became the hottest restaurant item of the 1950s because, unlike most pastas, it was not particularly affected by delays between cooking and eating.
"pizza came to america at the end of the nineteenth century with immigrants from southern italy.
this particular pie, simply  known as 'pork pie', is of a form distinct from other pies which merely happen  to be made with pork.
bake thirty minutes in a very slow oven, not allowing them to change color until the last few minutes, when they should become a very delicate brown.
though simple, the technique used to make palmiers can be fraught with peril.
cool pie and then top with whipped cream.
pizzapizza "...there is no earlier evidence than third century macedonia for the use of a flat loaf of bread as a plate for meat, a function which bread continued to perform in the pide of turkey, the pita of greece and bulgaria, the pizza of southern italy and the trencher of medieval europe.
art of cookery made plain and easy , mrs. [hannah] glasse, a new edition with modern improvements, facsimile 1805 edition printed by cottom and stewart and sold at their book-stores in alexandria and fredericksburg 1805, introduction by karen hess
the sweet potato, meanwhile, had already been shipped back to the old world, perhaps as early as 1493 in columbus's ship, and was cultivated in spain by the middle of the sixteenth century.
in al-masudi's (died c. 956) meadows of gold,  there are foods described that sound like early sanbusak.
prepare the pastry, and let stand, covered, while preparing the filling.
" ---happy holidays: recipes and 'goodies for giving,', corn products refining company [new york] undated, probably early 1960s](p.
in the 1950s...pizza suddenly burst onto center stage.
" ---an a to z of food and drink, john ayto
these pies will require a fiercer oven than those in the preceding recipe, as they are made so much smaller, and consequently do not require so soaking a heat.
stir the mixture until the fat is dissolved, and pour it boiling hot into a pound and a half of flour.
pumpkin pie went out of fashion in britain during the eighteenth century.
this became "inhame" in portuguese and then "igname" in french and "yam" in english.
"rice is...the protagonist of tummala [timbale], an elaborate casserole from eastern sicily, which is said to derive its name from that of mohammad ibn thummah, an empire of catania during the saracen occupation." ---pomp and sustenance: twenty-five centuries of sicilian food, mary taylor simeti
a ragoo is to be made..with which the potage is to be garnish'd, the profitrolle-loaf being laid in the middle.
when mixed, this is spread 'as thick as a finger', baked in two pieces  and, once cooked, spread with butter, sugar and rosewater.
california or "gourmet" pizza originated in 1980 at chez panisse, a restaurant in berkeley, california.
put two tablespoonfuls of stewed apples  on one-half the dough; fold over the other half, pinch the edges together;  place these in a baking-pan, brush with milk, and bake for twenty minutes." ---mrs.
tasty rounds  of a special dough blended with imported type aged cheese, spices, olives and  tomatoes, little bo-pizzas are ideal for a party canape tray.
" ---"they're frozen  assets,"washington post, july 21, 1966 (p. d3) [1967] "one of the best sellers
many cultures developed similar foodstuffs though the pastry/bread & fillings differed with region, religion and seasonal availability.
" ---history of food , maguelonne toussaint-samat [barnes & noble:new york] 1992 (pages 243-244) "profiteroles are small round choux-pastry buns with a filling.
the earliest print reference we find to  manufactured frozen pizza (in the usa) is patent 2,688,117, "method for  making frozen pizza," filed by jo bucci, philadelphia pa, august 10, 1950.
they are an important crop of the american south...
a single cookery method or culinary product may be concealed under a whole variety of labels or (conversely and just a confusing) a single term may apply to one or more different methods or receipts.
[indiana  university press:1992] (p. 273)
the recipe calls for about twice as much condensed milk as the standard recipe, and then the pie is baked, rather than simply refrigerated.
[note: this book also contains recipes for orange chiffon, sunkist chiffon, and notes titled 'solution for leaking, shrinking egg whites,' 'the topping is important,' 'egg-white meringue,' and 'use a hot oven.']
this was known as pissala (presumably a derivative of latin piscis, 'fish'), and gave its name to the pissaladiere.
as considerable dexterity and expertness are necessary to  raise the crust with the hand only, a glass bottle or small jar may be placed  in the middle of the paste, and the crust moulded on this; but be particular  that it is kept warm the whole time.
these came originally from southern asia, and were well known in western europe in the middle ages.
season it with pepper; when  it is full, lay some butter on the top, and fill your dish above half full of  soft water.
they have a good color and add a distinctive flavor.
in the eighteenth century and earlier, citrus juices were among many articles of diet used in attempts to find a cure for scurvy...
" ---an a-z of  food and drink, john ayto
when ready to serve, top with whipped cream.
discovered in dwarf form growing in the gardens of china by frank meyer, this particualr variety will stand slightly colder temperatrues than other types, although all lemons are susceptible to frost damage.
as the romans inaugurated slip decoration during the time that there was a larte roman colony in the palatinate on the rhine wehre the dutch came friom, it is faily clear that the dutch sgraffito ware derives from the early roman days.
this item was packaged in roll from; not as ready-to-bake tinned shells.
of meat allow 1 oz. of salt,  2–1/4 oz. of pepper, a small quantity of cayenne, 1 pint of water.
the informal, communal way it was eaten in restaurants made  it particualrly popular with teenagers, and by the mid-1950s boisterous  "pizza parlors" dotted the main streets of italian neighborhoods,  their oversized booths for six or eight crammed with voracious young eaters,  while others lounged by the entrance waiting for take-home orders...
melton mowbray pork pies are protected by eu law.
the earliest european recipes for pumpkin pie appear in the 17th century.
[atheneum:new york] 1976 (p. 41) william shakespeare's reference: "..when lovesick falstaff greeted mistress ford with 'let the sky rain potatoes in shakespeare's merry wives of windsor (1598) he was referring to sweet potatoes--and appealing to their aprhodesiac effect.
the russian word for pie, together with its diminutive pirozhki (plural), some from the word pir (meaning feast)...pirozhki (pierogi in poland) come in a variety of shapes including small half-moons, and may be either fried or baked.
beat the eggs; add the sugar and the thickened milk.
any other cooked vegetables may be added to the above, but they should be placed between the meat and potatoes, both top and bottom.
therefore, only the wealthy could afford apple and orange tarts.
from the tenth century ad onwards the arabs, who called it li mum...took it all around the mediterranean basin, eastwards to greece by way of constantinople, westwards to spain by way of maghreb and fezzan.
(though all of the stores use the same frozen puff pastry dough shipped from a french bakery in manhattan, the p street store's bakery consistently turns out a crisp, buttery, flaky palmier, albeit the size of a dinner plate.)
pecan pie is one of the most famous american desserts.
now, 33  years later, uno, together with its nearby sister, pizzeria due, seres 2,500  pizzas on a big day...
vanilla 1 cup broken peanut meats 1 unbaked 8-inch pie shell beat eggs slightly; add sugar and karo and beat again.
we may mention that at a certain farmhouse in the midlands, the pork pies are always made with layers of stoned raisins betweent the layers of pork.
the most important nut of n. america, is bourne by one of the hickory trees, carya illinoiensis.
ice with chocolate or vanilla frosting.
the country was therefore well primed for the invation of pizza....
pour into the partially baked pie shell and bake in an oven preheated to 325 degrees f. for about 40 minutes, until the top is slightly brown but not puffed up.
as a mould is not always at hand, those who  are note particularly expriernced in the work (and it requires skill) may mould  the pie round a jelly-pot or bottle, which has beeen made warm by beining  immersed for some time in warm water.
roll up fro long side as for jelly roll; seal edges.
the potatoes will absorb some of the gravy, and found tasty.
also known as pissala.
massailot's ingredients for 'benioles', or petit choux, are simliar to la varenne's...
we may mention that at a certain farmhouse in the  midlands, the pork pies are always made with layers of stoned raisins betweent  the layers of pork.
when rolled too tightly, sliced a smidgen too thick or underbaked by even a minute, the interior remains soggy and leaden.
there are over thirty varieties of lemons in cultivation, but they are generally classified according to the place of growth or shipping.
" ---boston cooking school cook book, mrs. d. a. lincoln, facsimile 1884 edition [dover publications:mineola ny] 1996 (p. 296) [1897] "sweet potato pie.
timballo di crespelle is crepes layered with spinach, ground meat, giblets, mozzarella, and
heat the fat or oil in a skillet or  saucepan and add the onion and garlic.
tasty, tender pastries--four kinds--each ready-filled with  a different and luscious flavor...
if i could only have a little sweetbread timbale, she said longingly.
hamburgers and hot dogs were also sold for a nickel at this time.]
early pies had pastry tops, but modern pies may have a topping of something else...or even be topless.
" ---oxford companion to food, alan davidson [oxford university press:oxford] 1999 (p. 775)
about culinary research & about copyright.
the origins of impossible pie (aka mystery pie, coconut amazing pie) are sketchy at best.
the word originated in french as a diminutive form of profit,  and so etymologically means 'small gains'--and indeed it may to begin with have  denoted a 'little something extra' cooked long with the master's main dish as a  part of the servants' perks.
this is what the food historians have to say: "i suspect--but cannot verify--that [grasshopper pie] recipes descend from one that appeared in high spirited desserts, a recipe flier publsihed jointly by knox unflavored gelatine and heublein cordials.
---the american century cookbook: the most popular recipes of the 20th century, jean anderson [clarkson potter:new york] 1997 (p. 377) [note:
"1 egg milk 8 oz (225 g) plain white flour salt vegetable oil for frying 2 oz (50 g) icing sugar 2 oz (50 g) ground pistachio break the egg into a bowl, beat it, and add enough milk to make the liquid up to 8 fl oz (225 ml).
stromboli (the dish) isn't  that hot on this side of the atlantic, but in philadelphia, providence, r.i.,  new york city, and other places with established italian-american communities,  it's a long-standing favorite.
[simon & schuster:new york] 1995 (p . 256) "q. do you know the origin of the name chiffon as related to cooking and the origin of a chiffon pie known as a grasshopper?
[oxford university press:new york] 2004, volume 2 (p. 286) "while not yet a bona fide fast food, pizza was soon giving the fast foods run for the consumer's money.
some food historians hypothesize this was a tasteful reaction to prohibition.
repeat the layers until the ingredients are used up.
of course, it is possible the were sold as individual units.
in medieval times, this area was known as lothringen, a germanic kingdom.
the sweet potato was cultivated in the south of spain from the early 16th century, and proved a popular novelty...
it will serve any purpose to which a lemon can be put and is available almost from the time the plant is put out, because the plants bear immediately and are almost never without fruit form that time on.
by the 17th century, tomatoes and their byproducts (sauces,  soups) were staple ingredients of many classic southern european recipes.
press long pieces into the sides, and fasten thesee to the top and the bottom with white of egg.
notable competetitors:: general foods toastem animals (owls)[introduced august 31, 1964] calzones
general mills' toastwich, which had to be  refrigerated, appeared on grocery shelves for less than a year.
remove from the fire and add the salt and vanilla.
the bones and trimmings of the pork may be stewed to make gravy, which should be boiled until it will jelly when cold, and when this has been nicely flavoured, a little may be poured into the pie after it is baked through an opening made in the top.
are you taking full advantage of its possibilities?
have a baked pie shell in readiness and fill it with the lemon mixture.
frozen pie crust, 35 cents.
when cool fill with the following: filling 2 cups chopped dates 1 1/2 cups brown sugar 1 cup water lemon juice simmer the above ingredients until the dates are of a soft consistency.
we  will probably never know the name of the first person to combine and serve  tomatoes, cheese and flat bread.
it should be noted, however, that the lighter the meringue the lower the cooking temperature should be; they should be dried rather than cooked.
when the pie is baked, take six yolks of eggs, some white-wine or verjuyce, and make a caudle of this, but not too thick, but cut up the lid, put it in, and stir them well together whilst the eggs and pumpion be not perceived, and so serve it up.
for many years, pizza was mostly available in cities with large neapolitan populations [new york, boston, new haven, philadelphia, baltimore etc.].
" ---the british housewife: cookery books, cooking and society in eighteenth-century britain, gilly lehmann
" ---boston cooking school cook book, mrs. d.a. lincoln [1884] (p. 389) related foods?
1 cup mashed sweet potato 1/2 cup sugar yolks of 2 eggs 2 cups rich milk salt mix all with beaten yolks of eggs, bake slowly, flavor meringue of whites of eggs with vanilla."
seasonable from september to  march..." little raised pork pies.
those unsavory intruders turned up in every brand, and represent a higher level of such contamination than we have found in any other food category...
the fruit...is almost double the size of the usual lemon, roundish-oval in shape, and of a rich orange-yellow color; about halfway between the orange and the ordinary lemon in appearance.
[times books:new york] 1985 (p. 461-2) turnovers turnovers are one of the most popular examples of portable pies.
in italy there were calzones, in england there were cornish pasties and so on.
captain cook...was supplied with lemon juice as a concentrated syrup, with most of the vitamin c unwittingly boiled out in the preparation...
eveyln tellus us that these fritters are of french  origin, and this may well be so.
we find nothing close to saint honore in la varenne [1651], but ude's french cook
the first european to taste sweet potatoes were members of columbus' expedition to haiti, in 1492...
the oldest recipe we have for eclairs in an american cookbook was  published in 1884: "cream cakes
we can  mail/fax/scan if you like.]
not only were citrus fruits themselves imported, but also confectionery made from them.
even spring rolls--the more refined version of egg rolls, which can most certainly be classified as turnovers--can be found almost anywhere in the nation where chinese chefs have settled.
de salvi has  perfected a frozen pizza pie, six fanciful fillings, for the television viewing  home trade.
about pieabout pie apple pie apple crisp & brown betty apple slump baklava/filo banana cream pie black bottom pie about pieabout pie pie--the filling and baking of sweet (fruits, nuts, cheese) or savory (meat, fish, eggs, cheese) ingredients and spices in casings composed of flour, fat, and water is an ancient practice.
a deep-fried snack, consisting of a crisp, triangular and  layery wheat casing filled with spiced meat or vegetables.
our survey of historic newspapers and us patent  office records confirm toaster pastries were introduced to the american public  in 1964.
eclairs--bake the cream cake mixture in pieces four inches long and one and a half wide.
when it is light brown remove it from the stove to cool.
" ---"a new fruit--sweet lemons," syracuse herald [ny], december 12, 1928 (p. 8) [note:
[oxford university press:oxford] 2002 (p. 92)
a mixture of savour and sweet was common in medieval dishes and typical of the elaborate, decorative tarts and pies which were served at banquets.
fauvel, a chef working for the famous pastry cook chiboust, invented  the genoese sponge and also had a hand in the creation of the gateau  saint-honore, so called in honour of the patron saint of pastrycooks.
their son-in-law, henry viii of england, liked them too, he thought the plant was an aphrodesiac...
today, the terms 'cream bun or puff', 'profiterole' and  'choux' seems to have settled down; the ambiguity no longer an issue.
should it be too liquid, stew it a little dryer; put a paste round the edges and in the bottom of a shallow dish or plate, pour in the mixture, cut some thin bits of paste, twist them and lay them across the top and bake it nicely.
kellogg appreciated that kids were the primary target audience for pop-tarts  because they had yet to establish breakfast habits of their own.
pour into two buttered nine-inch pie pans; bake at 350 degrees 30 to 40 minutes.
a nourishing all-family treat for lunch boxes and after-school snacks as well as for breakfast ."
the two pieces are sandwiched together and warmed in the oven, then decorated with sugar and preserved lemon.
heat 1 inch of oil (she uses her electric frying pan) to 375 degrees.
pork is not an ingredient.
food historians tell us sugar-filled pastries originated in the ancient middle east.
at melton mowbray in leicestershire, long famous for its pork  pies, anchovy essence was added not only for its flavour but because it was  thought to give the meat an attractive pink colour, while pies from other  districts were brownish or greyish.
we accordingly analyzed duplicate samples of every product for viable microbes.
the relevant recipes are for savour items containing meat.
make your sugar-crust, roll it as thick as a halfpenny; then buter your patties, and cover it; shape your upper-crust on a hollow tin of purpose, the size of your patty, and mark it with a marking-iron for that purpose, in what shape you please, to be hollow and open to see the fruit through; then bake your crust in a very slack oven, not to discolour it, but to have it crisp.
the sweet potato was especially valued during the war against the british and the civil war, for it grows quickly and its underground habit makes it less vulnerable than surface crops to deliberate destruction."
one frozen product that has been very successful is pet-ritz pie crust shells.
the word chiffon obviously applies to foods that have a delicate or light and fluffy consistency.
stromboli (the dish) isn't that hot on this side of the atlantic, but in philadelphia, providence, r.i., new york city, and other places with established italian-american communities, it's a long-standing favorite.
how the crusty brown, overstuffed loaf became  known as "stromboli" is anyone's guess, since there's no food by that  name in italy.
we have buses booked  year-round.'...
yes, there is french pizza.
" ---an a-z  of food & drink, john ayto
season it with cloves, mace, pepper and some saffron, great raisins and prunes..."
the filling whould be placed in the shell immediately.
"cobbler, also cobbler pie: a deep-dish fruit pie with crust, often biscuit dough, on the top and sometimes lining the pan.
the raised pie recipe referred to above (p. 785+) is too long to transcribe.
a deep-fried snack, consisting of a crisp, triangular and layery wheat casing filled with spiced meat or vegetables.
the guess is that a growing number of americans of italian origin aided by  advertising and refrigeration, have made pizza as delectable as such other  postwar imports as lollobrigida.
although hinkelboi is technically similar to a pennsylvania dutch chicken botboi (pot pie) and may even tasted like one, it must not be confused with the true botboi, a baked stew thickened with large, flat noodles.
chill thoroughly before serving.
finish by dotting the surface with 25 g (1 oz) butter cut in small pieces; bake in a moderate oven for 30-35 minutes and cut into triangles whilst just warm.
" ---dictionary of american regional english, frederic g. cassidy, editor, [belknap press:cambridge ma: 1985] volume 1 (p. 704) [note:
such an anticipation that pumpkin pie was on the way out was premature, as far as the developments on this side of the atlantic were concerned.
the recipe ingredients some folks list are comglomerations of various brand products made by competing companies (jell-o is kraft; hydrox is sunshine)
---"new menus and recipes suggested for weekend," new york times, may 9, 1963 (p. 43)
the earliest references we find to potato pie in english cookbooks were printed in the 18th century.
registration #73414283] pork pies (also: cheshire & cape breton pork pie)pork pies (also: cheshire & cape breton pork pie)
legend likes to claim the first pizza delivery took place in italy, 1889:
this is quite a homely pie, but a very good one."
---encyclopedia of american food and drink, john f. mariani [lebhar-freidman:new york] 1999 (p. 313) "stromboli is a crusty brown, overstuffed loaf dish which is popular in several us regions with numerous italian-american residents.
calsones with reshteh were a  famous jewish dish in aleppo, syria.
" ---"it's new," washington post and times herald, february 18, 1955 (p. 67)
bring this to a boil and thicken with 5 ounces of cornstarch dissolved in 6 ounces of fresh lemon juice.
the dish is a welcome addition to italian menus that usually offer pizza and pasta.
"cheshire pork and apple pie.
the filling comes out a delicate green color.
paula prouty of key west and scarborough, maine, where she is a newspaper food editor, simply makes a regular key lime pie, with a meringue top, and then freezes it.
the african name for this vegetable is "allato."
the result is a very creamy filling, a bit stiffer and higher than the usual, that lacks the raw egg flavor one sometimes encounters in a key lime pie.
reesman, a retired post food technician who invented the cereal fruity pebbles.
why the confusion between yams & sweet potatoes?
in  the new world hogs were plentiful.
doupble the quantity of  dried sage could be suet.
we evaluate 17 brands of cheese pizza, 14 of sausage, seven of pepperoni and three topped with hamburger.
kellogg's marketing strategy of claiming nutrition for pop-tarts is a part of the larger, historic strategy to market pop-tarts to adults as well as children.
the key to dating shepherd's pie is the introduction (and acceptance) of potatoes in england.
the puff pastries called feuillantines were first made in the  seventeenth century in a convent of that name...
the palmiers were a favorite of customers, says amernick.
cut in squares or triangles to serve.
if desired, sprinkle addtional coconut on top before baking.
cream of tartar 4 eggs separated 3 tbsps.
food historians tell us these new vegetables were greatly prized by some european kings and queens.
[oxford university press:oxford] 2002 (p. 338) medieval european tarts (savory & sweet) elizabethen england's fruit tarts apple & orange tart apple and orange tarts are an excellent choice for a shakespearean feast.
) [notes: (1) mr. claiborne's recipe here.
have your pie plates lined with a good pastry, and when the custard is ready, strain the milk from the nuts and add them to the custard.
"---display ad,reno evening gazette [nv], february 24, 1928 (p. 2) "a new fruit--sweet lemons.
most of our books simply state "source unknown.
tarts (generally pies-like recipes without top crusts) were known during these times.
the dough was topped with  salt and pepper, scamozza (scamorza) cheese, tomatoes, grated parmesan cheese,  and olive oil in that order.
cool; then fill the tart shells.
prices ranged from 21 to 41 cents a dozen, 39 cents most prevalent.
samples here: [1651] "tourte of peares pare your peares, and cut them very thin.
did you know recipes for tomato pie, both open tarts and double-crust (what we now call "stuffed pizza"), were also known to american cooks in the early 19th century?
"---bon appetit, may 1983 (p. 8) "japanese coconut pie.
he tells us that there are two kinds, 'one round, and plumpe like an apple; the other also round, but much flatter'...in 1706 'petits choux' crops up in edward phillips' dictionary,new world of english words, 'a sort of paste for garninshing made of fat cheese, flower, eggs, salt, etc. bake'd in a pye-pan, and ic'd over with fine sugar'...there are several receipts found in early european cookbooks and manuscripts that broadly refer to what today's cooks call 'choux paste,' or what we have referred to as 'twice-cooked' pastry.
the recipients were visiting  king umberto i and queen margherita.
grease lightly 1 deep 9" or 10" pie pan.
" ---oxford companion to food, alan  davidson [oxford university press:oxford] 1999 (p. 609-610)
this book contains far more information than can be paraphrased here.
fill the pie, put on the  cover, pinch the edges, fasten securely with white of egg, ornament the outside  in any wan thay may suit the fancy, brush over with yolk of egg, and bake in a  slow oven if the pie be large, in a quicker one if it be small.
sweet potato pie & carrot cake.
the first record of a  pizzeria in new york was gennaro lombardi's, opened in 1905 on spring street,  but others quickly followed in the italian communities around the city.
regarding the origin of calzones there are a couple of theories: "calzone means "pant leg" in italian.
the earliest reference to grasshopper pie in the new york times was published in 1904.
recipes for these "perfumes" were later employed to make fruit flavorings.
the largest is called kilebiaka, while the smallest is called by the diminutive piroshki.
this is the legend: "choux pastry is said to have been invented in 1540 by popelini,  catherine de' medici's chef, but the pastrycook's art only truly began to  develop in the 17th century and greatest innovator at the beginning of the 19th  century was indubitably [antonin] careme..." ---larousse  gastronomique, jenifer harvey lang, editor
however, we can find several receipts  recognizable as choux paste in the german cook sabina welserin's manuscript of  1553.
[oxford university press:oxford] 2002 (p.  259) "the term pizza is clouded in some ambiguity, though it may derive  from an old italian word meaning a point, which in turn led to the italian word  pizzicare, to pinch or pluck.
crust pies and a pie shell or five 9-in.
"lemon-meringue pie, made with lemon curd and topped with meringue, has been a favorite american dessert since the nineteenth century.
we replied that they sounded like the fried dough we get at our country fairs here in the east.
[crown:new york] 1960 (p. 213), which suggests this pastry might have commanded a broader swath of geography.
milles-feuilles (literally, thousand leaves) was a 19th century french invention based on the same principle and adapted to the tastes of the day.
spread remaining cream over top.
sot it was a grass-roots recipe first, origin unknown.
cut the meat into pieces the size of a  small nut, and keep the meat and fat separate.
repeat the layers until the  ingredients are used up.
while food historians confirm vinegar pie originated in the american midwest, they are curiously silent about vinegar pie crust.
stir in the water and blend in the egg yolks, one at a time.
" ---"ten history courses:  there are some interesting stories behind nyc restaurant names--just ask  jimmy," sunny lee,daily news [new york], february 16, 2003 (p. 17)
by 1967, toasted pastries were a $45  million market, most of which belonged to kellogg.
" ---the complete guide to the art of modern cookery, a. escoffier, translated by h.l. cracknell and r.j. kaufman
custard will thicken as you add lime juice.
first use in  commerce: 19640714 mark drawing code (1) typed drawing serial number 72198180  filing date july 20, 1964 registration number 0791514
the oil of lemon is largley used in cooking and confectionery; the extract of lemon, sold for domestic use, being simply a dilute solution of the oil in alcohol.
glover [b.f. johnson publishing co.:richmond va] 1897 (p. 248)
top both pies with the remaining frozen whipped topping.
then put the onions all over the potato layer.
" --- the complete guide to the art of modern cookery, escoffier [le guide cuiliniare 1903], the first translation into english by h.l. cracknell and r.j. kaufmann
not one but two huge food corporations benefited by popularizing the simple recipe formula for the impossible pie mixtures: the two big "generals."
[oxford university  press:oxford] 2002 (p. 258) "though the french influence is everywhere in this country, a few  foods that are common in france have managed to escape our dragnet.
elizabeth david (english bread and yeast cookery)tells us traditional english "cob" bread was small, brown and round.
" ---"new cake easy to take," evelyn comer, charleston gazette [wv], mayu 27, 1968 (p. 19) [1971] "impossible pie 4 eggs 1/4 cup melted butter or margarine 1 3/4 cujp self-rising flour 2 cups milk 1 4-oz. can shredded coconut beat eggs thoroughly.
the unusual name is presumed to come from the fact that pools of sweet, sticky molasses sometimes formed on the surface of the pie while it was cooling, inevitably attracting flies."
" ---ibid (p. 529) [note:
as awful a name as country squares seems in 1994
nowadays this is usually onions stewed in olive oil, or a mixture of tomatoes and anchovies, or a puree of anchovies and garlic...all threee decorated with black olives, but originally it would have been a mixture of tiny fish, typically fry of sardines, anchovies, etc., preserved in brine.
the word shows up for the first time in print as a neapolitan dialect word--piza or picea--about 1000 a.d., possibly referring to the manner in which something is plucked from a hot oven...
blanche them...and drain them.
what sewell and ruccardon began has been imitated,  perhaps improved upon...and occasionally ripped off.
the dish is an excellent one, considering its small cost.
there are conflicting reports about the dates of introduction.
missionary nuns took their  talents as pastrycooks to the french colonies.
but pop-tarts continue to dominate the toaster-pastry category, although significantly lower-priced generic brands are widely available.
[ct], march 5, 1962 (p. 20) [1963] "new-frozen crusts.
(p. 213-4) "tourte of pumpkin.
pork, being a versatile and common meat, was often employed as pie filling.
now the place to bake pies," mary meade,chicago daily tribune, april 16, 1933 (p. d1)
the crust 4 good-sized potatoes 1/4 cup cream salt and pepper to taste cut the mutton and boiled potatoes into pieces about one inch square; put them in a deep pie or baking dish, add the stock or water, salt, pepper, and half the butter cut into small bits.
the pulp of the fruit abounds in citric acid.
ice with butter icing." ---out of old nova scotia kitchens, marie nightingale
---food and feast in medieval england, p.w.
[arnold and company:philadelphia] 1902 (p. 590-1) related food?
be careful that the walls are equlally thick in every part.
the beauty of these self-contained foods was they were easy to  cook, inexpensive, portable and could be consumed anywhere with little mess.
[business bourse:new york] 1935 p. 251-252) the earliest print evidence we find for "slippery beef pot pie" was a restaurant advertisement published inthe morning herald, hagerstown maryland, july 2, 1965 (p. 32).
refusing to go to the likes of a pizzeria,  the queen ordered in.
by  the thirteenth century, sanbusak appears in spain, almost as the same recipe, a  triangular fried pastry.
sanbusak are possible, although not as  likely, the origin of the turkish borek and therefore the origin, too, of the  savory pastries, the tunisian brik, algerian burak, moroccan briwat, and the  armenian beoreg, as well as spanish, greek, italian, and sicilian  versions.
" ---"my best recipe: different treatment for pie,"los angeles times, may 6, 1971 (p. j7) [1978] "blender impossible pie 2 cups milk 1 cup sugar 1 cup shredded coconut 1 teaspoon vanilla 1/2 cup buttermilk biscuit mix 4 eggs 1/4 cup margarine, cut in bits place milk, sugar, coconut, vanilla, biscuit mix, eggs and bits of margarine in a blender and whirl for 3 minutes.
a kind of tart in which the fruit is laid on one half of the rolled out paste, and the other half turned over it; a child's sweetmeat resembling this.
pastry  choices range from classic europeanpuff paste to mediterranean filo.
this article sums up the situation best: "amazing.
fill one-half of each sircle of dough with about three tablespoons of filling, leaving a margin for sealing when the dough is folded.
pour it boiling on the flour, and knead and beat it till perfectly smooth.
let the potatoes get entirely cold, and grate them.
"empanadas, meat and fish pies from galicia, are rarely found elsewhere in spain.
book includes modernized recipe/instructions.]
1 lemon, juice and grated rind.
as snack foods go, frozen pizza is remarkably  nutritious.
in this regional crossroads, there are many variations, based largely on the background of the baker.
in poland, pierogi are more like ravioli; in russia they are more like  pie.
[thomas kelly:london] 1817 (p. 452) cape breton pork pie food historians tell us traditional europeanpork pies date to medieval times.
native american sweet potatoes in use at that time were not all sweet.
it was *discovered* by general mills (bisquick) and general foods, who capitalized on the opportunity to promote their products.
the  ingredients for la varenne's reciept includes a fist-size of fresh  cheese...bruised with a little flour, two eggs, a further handful of flour or  salt.
on average, our frozen pizzas contained a bit more dough than a fresh pizza of the same type, and a bit less cheese.
those bacteria can thrive at freezing temperatures  will get a chance to increase inordinately in a pizza that's mishandled or  stays overlong in a retail showcase...
another article from 1971, describing the meeting of the north american  pizza association, clearly indicates home pizza delivery was a long established  and popular activity.
" ---ibid (p. 533) shoofly pie shoofly pie has such an interesting name, it must have an equally interesting history.
looking for historic recipes & descriptions?
in addition, italian bakers used their ovens for flatbreads: northern italians baked focaccia, while southern italians made pizza.
whether large or small, they come in many shapes and sizes with the doughs as varied as the fillings...
heat the fat or oil in a skillet or saucepan and add the onion and garlic.
from this tradition sprang two primary recipe lines: savory raised pies and sweet compactmincemeat dishes.
mrs. sewell married ike, a liquor company executive, in 1939, and  in the 1940s and '50s helped him with recipes and decor for his pizzeria uno,  pizzeria due and su casa restaurants.
if the basic concept of a pie is taken to mean a mixture of ingredients encased and cooked in pastry, then proto-pies were made in the classical world and pies certainly figured in early arab cookery.
" ---seventy-five receipts for pastry, cakes, and sweetmeats, by a lady of philadephia (eliza leslie), facsimile reprint of 1828 edition, boston:munroe and francis
original new york pizzeria still serves up the best,"sacramento bee , january 7, 2001, pg.
timballini are small molds.
" ---a mediterranean feast , clifford a. wright [morrow:new york] 1999 (p. 563, 573) "calsones...a sephardic jewish stuffed pasta which is widely consumed  in the middle east.
sample recipes: 18th century "[to make] a codling tarte eyther to looke clear or greene first coddle [the] apples in fair water, [then] take halfe the weight in sugar & make as much syrrop as will cover the bottom of your preserving pan, & the rest of the suger keep to throw on them as they boyle, which must be very softly' & you must turne them often least they burne too.
cut  into dice (by means of a mincer, or by hand), the pieces bieng even in size,  the fat and lean mixed will, and the seasoning thoroughly blended with the  meat; the meat should be sprinkled with a spoonful of water or stock during the  mixing, as it tends to bind it.
there were plenty of lemons in messina, and as soon as prices advanced here the shippers there would sent on all that were needed.
it will take half an hour baking." ---the experienced english housekeeper, elizabeth raffald, with an introduction by roy shipperbottom [southover press:east sussex] 1997 (p. 82) [1847] "meringue pie
shortcrust pastry provides a firm base for the soft and flexible choux pastry piled round it on top.
mass-manufactured, plentiful and inexpensive, they were agressively promoted by food companies.
place mixture in pie shells which have been slightly browned, and bake at 400 degrees till filling is firm.
(though "pizza" means pie or pies, some americans insist on saying "pizza pies.
according to present practice, richard briggs [w. spotswood, r. campbell, and b. johnson:philadelphia] 1792 (p. 382) [1841] "puffs.--roll out puff paste nearly a quarter of an inch thick, and, with a small saucer, or tin cutter of that size, cut it into round pieces; place upon one side raspberry or strawberry jam, or any sort of preserved fruit, or stewed apples; wet the edges, fold over the other side, and press it round with the finger and thumb.
"key lime pies were first made in the keys in the 1850s.
[1970] "pecan pie # 1 makes a crispy nut-brown top.
samosas are usually eaten as a  snack, often as a street food.
"that's what it  cost back in 1905.
when these laborers came to america to work the copper  mines, they brought lunch with them.
campfire brand is one of the oldest.
beat eggs, cream, and seasonings in a bowl to blend.
nor was its use in cookery, as an acid element, appreciated at once.
[1796] "pompkin (pie) american cookery, amelia simmons [1805] "to make pumpkin-pie.
a single cookery method or culinary product may be  concealed under a whole variety of labels or (conversely and just a confusing)  a single term may apply to one or more different methods or receipts.
" ---paradox of plenty: a social  history of eating in modern america, harvey levenstein [university of  californa press:berkeley] 2003 (p. 229-30) more on american pizza: "as american as pizza pie," smithsonian magazine, june  1997 regional variations, pizza marketing quarterly american pizza industry statistics & consumer profiles (current) pizza: a global hisory/carol heltosky (book) new york style pizza
"" ---"cold war looms: pizza pie vs.
[applewood books:bedford ma] 1997 (p. 144) [1839] an apple pot-pie rub the bottom and sides of a porridge-pot, or small oven, with butter, and then with dry flour.
a tea-spoonful of mixed spice, nutmeg, mace and cinnamon.
for customs purposes they were declared at about ten for 1d."
turn into baked pastry shell and chill until firm.
these are generally composed of choux artfully arranged and filled with chantilly cream.
registration date june 22, 1965 owner (registrant) kellogg company corporation delaware 235 porter st.
filing date july 20, 1964 registration number 0791514
" ---"new business,"new york times, october 7, 1954 (p. 35) [1954] "frozen pizza is available in many groceries, ready to eat after heating in the kitchen oven.
in 1874 james w. parkinson, writing of american dishes at the philadelphia centennial, noted that "citron"...a lemon-like fruit, had "lately been transplanted in california..."
it was, however the most successful.
it  consists of a base of bread dough (or sometimes fried slices of bread) with a  savoury topping.
it is occasionally used for savoury fillings, such as meat, but a sweet fruit filling is the norm, and, as the above extract suggests, most turnovers are in fact apple turnovers.
just pop them in the oven until crisply touched with brown--
a quiche is a mixture of cream and bacon, such as the quiche lorraine, or cheese and milk, or tomatoes and onions, or crab, or anything else which is combined with eggs, poured into a pastry shell, and baked in the oven until it puffs and browns.
this source contains several pages describing the origin, history and dispersal of both foods and an extensive bibliography for further study.]
who was the first person to throw a pie plate and yell frisbee?
but various cross-checks (not to mention the consulation of apicius) nonetheless give us a rather good idea of what the ancient greeks and romans confected in this domain...the makers of greco-roman pastry had no knowledge of the subleties of dough, and thus having nothing like our present-day babas, doughnuts, bioches, savarins, creampuffs, millefeuille pastry, pastry made from raised dough or shortbreads...as a general rule, greek pastry closely resembled the sort that is still found today in north africa, the near east, and the balkans: the basic mixture was honey, oil, and flour, plus various aromatic substances, notably pepper.
the even more common lemon meringue, ever present in public eating places, is one more dish served at boston's parker house that has become a classic in the american repertoire.
[oxford university press:new york] 2004, volume 2 (p. 286) "one of the first pizza sold in the united states was baked some fifty years ago by a 13-year-old pizzaiuolo named gennaro lombardi at 53 1/2 spring street in little italy section of new york...pizza may never replace hot dogs as the great american "bite," but their amazing acceptance in recent years prompts a question: why pizza and not, say, mexican enchiladas?
sufficient for one dozen and a half.
cob/cobble/cobber convey many meanings in the english language.
the cover everything with the custard, without allowing any to spill onto the sides of the dough.
roll dough into a rectangle, nine by 18 inches.
bijv, to tost white sheuers, and  to make prophytrolles and after talkyng, oftymes to fyll the bolles.
the eating of "hote [meat] pies" is mentioned inpiers plowman, and english poem written in the 14th century.
frisbie baking company, bridgeport, ct.
"mrs. sewell, 95, whose husband, ike, gained fame as the co-inventor  of deep dish pizza, died early sunday morning at her chicago home.
"mrs. sewell, 95, whose husband, ike, gained fame as the co-inventor of deep dish pizza, died early sunday morning at her chicago home.
[1753] "a potato pye.
by its  position, i would say hot, like the chicken pie before it, and the devonshire  squab pie that follows.
"do you realize," continued mr. decker,  "that the pizza has made terrific infroads on the hot dog market?
the spanish and russians retained the name limon, which becomes lemon in english..." ---history of food, maguelonne toussaint-samat [barnes & noble books:new york] 1992 (p. 662) "lemons were one of the most sought after fruits in early modern europe.
put into your dish a layer of pork, then a layer of pippins, pared and cored, and sugar sufficient to sweeten it.
" mrs. beeton's book of household management, isabella beeton [1875] "pork pies.--pork pies are generally made of the trimming taken from a hog when it is cut up.
[1921] "i sometimes serve sweet potatoes in this way: pare and boil medium-sized sweet potatoes until tender and remove and place in a pan in this way: one layer of the sweet potatoes, sliced; a little sugar sprinkled over the slices, a thin layer of marshmallows cut into small pieces, and then another layer of the sliced sweet potatoes--and so repeat the order of these layers till the dish is full; finish with the marshmallow layer.
if you are looking for a shoo-fly pie recipe from the early 18th century, try this one from "the thirteen colonies cookbook," by mary donovan.
pecans are commerically cultivated in the band of states running from georgia west to new mexico, as well as in mexico, brazil, and outside of the western hemisphere, in israel, south america, and australia.
but judges by cu's test of 41 products, it isn't apt to be very  good.
while the pie is baking beat up the whites of the four eggs with powdered loaf sugar, spread it over the top of the pie when done; then set back in the oven a few moments to brown slightly.
[ks], october 13, 1982 (p. 10) [note:
" --- the new art of cookery
potatoes are a new world food.
put in a little sweet butter, and set it upon a chafing dish of coals between two platters.
it's a rolled bread filled with ground veal and pork, swiss chard,  cauliflower, provolone, and black olives, shaped like a crescent to recall the  arab domination of sicily.
in spain a mixture of minced meats and sausage is common, but in writing about empanadas in galicia janet mendel [ traditional spanish cooking, garnet publishing, 1996] lists no fewer than 18 examples of fillings, ranging from clams to rabbit, sardines to pigeon, and octopus to ham.
of the neck of pork, 1 dessertspoonful of powdered sage.
1727 r. bradley family dict.
in s. and c. america and the southwest of the usa a similarly wide range of fillings are used.
in about ad 1300 amir khusrau describes, among the foods of the muslim aristocracy in delhi, the 'samosa, preapred from meat, ghee, onion, etc.'.
put it in your sheet of paste; bake it.
about eclairs the food history encyclopedias (including the larousse gastronomique) and reference books all describe eclairs but  provide little if any details regarding their origin.
full directions for the raising of the paste  will be found on page 785, and either of the reicpes on page 748 may be  followed in making it; the medium paste is suitable.
this mixture is enough for two small, or one good-sized pie.
a quarter of a pound of fresh butter.
" ---oxford companion to food , alan davidson [oxford university press:oxford] 2nd edition, 2006 (p. 625) sweet vs savoury?
press around the  edges with the tines of a fork to seal well.
garnish with slices of fresh lime.
or let it be the first course of your dinner.
serve with whipped cream.
ingredients, cooking methods and size vary  according to place and period.
note: do not use a pie crust as this pie makes its own top and botton.
another unusual quality of the fruits, sayspopular science monthly, is said to be a reasonably sweet penetrating odor.
take twenty good wardens, pare them, and cut them in a tart, and put to them two pound of refined sugar, twenty whole cloves, a quarter of an ounce of cinnamon broke into little bits, and three races of ginger pared and slic't thin; then close up the tart and bake it, it will ask five hours baking, then ice it with a quarter of a pound of double refined sugar, rose water, and butter.
frozen pie crust has to be compounded carefully so as to resist tearing and puncturing between the time it is rolled and the time the housewife spreads it in the baking tin.
combine milk, water and quarter-cup margarine in a saucepan.
[1954] "another of the week's 652 patents was granted to  joseph bucci of philadelphia for a method of making in frozen form that popular  delicacy, pizza, sometimes called tomato pie.
the majority of the ads were for sunkist brand lemons.
meanwhile, the sugar caramelizes ever so slightly, casting a glassy sheen.
rub into the flour a portion of the lard; the remainder put with sufficient milk and water to mix the crust, and boil this gently for 1/4 hour.
they were particularly welcome at church suppers because they were so easy to transport and were very festive at any family table.
many 18th century english and american puddings were baked in pie crust.
we find no person/restaurant/cooking contest/company claiming *invention* of this particular item.
gerard in hisherball (1597) correctly identified them: sweets, already well known in england, he called simply potatoes, saying that they grew in "...spaine, and other hot regions.
in one form or another, pizza has been a basic part of the italian diet since the stone age, and italians have devised more ways of interpreting the dish than anyone else...italian pizza evolved from the basic concepts initiated by two different cultures: the etrucans in the north and the greeks in the south...
now raise the crust in either a round or oval form, cut up the pork into pieces the size of a nut, season it in the above proportion, and press it compactly into the pie, in alternate layers of fat and lean, and pour in a small quantity of water; lay on the lid, cut the edges smoothly round, and pinch them together.
quickly she ran a knife around the edge of the crust and overturned the entire pie onto a serving platter with the cracked crust underneath.
a dish made of finely minced meat, fish, or other ingredients, cooked in a crust of paste or in a mould: so called from its shape.
in addition,  italian bakers used their ovens for flatbreads: northern italians baked  focaccia, while southern italians made pizza.
marcia h. kenward said she'd clipped the recipe from the miami herald "at least 30 years ago."
these cookbooks were also written by and for the wealthy.
in 1986 the count for the whole of france was over 40,000 baker-pastrycooks and
those who possess moulds sometimes prefer a pork pie raisied by hand, and baked out of a mould, as the consider the flaour is better.
star 24 dec. 3/2 there were sweets called turnovers, in  which were coins of various values.
turn batter into a greased and floured 10-inc pie plate and bake at 350 degrees 40 to 45 minutes or until a brown crust is formed.
chiefly south, south middle (parts of the united states.).
claudia roden...quotes a poem by ishiq ibn ibrahim al-mausili (9th century) praising sanbusaj...
its taste hardly departed from the tried and true, yet its form could be readily accomodated to the era's newer, more casual way of eating: children's parties and snacking in front of the television set.
sanbusak,an arabic word that comes from the persian sanbusa, means anything triangular, was first described as a stuffed pastry in the early ninth century by isaq ibn ibrahim (d. 851), a well-known author from iraq.
" "lime pie supreme (4 large pies) 1 pound butter 4 cups sugar 2 dozen eggs juice of 15 to 18 limes, to taste.
despite his sense of ownership, lasyone insisted he was not interested  in shepherding his meat pies to fast-food fame...'i would rather for someone  else to buy the recipe...making meat pie is really a job.
a better-off person's meal in the sixteenth century finished with fruit...
this is normally  the base for various toppings, and it is safe to assume that since early  classical times people in the general region of the mediterranean were at least  sometimes putting a topping on their flat breads
continue rolling and cutting circles until all the dough has been used.
top with sweetened whipped cream.
8 to 10 servings 1 1/2 cups sugar 1 1/2 cups flaked coconut (6 ounces) 1 1/2 cups chopped pecans (6 ounces) 1 1/2 cups graham cracker crumbs 7 egg whites, unbeaten 1 unbaked 10-inch pie shell unsweetened whipped cream (garnish) 1 large banana, thinly sliced (garnish) preheat oven to 350 degrees f. combine sugar, coconut, pecans, graham cracker crumbs and whites in large bowl and mix well; do not beat.
filling: fruit chiffon pie.
at first the technique was used to make a simple, uncooked dish called snow, made from egg white and cream.
in the absence of documented evidence, educated guesses may be constructed.
beat together the key lime juice and condensed milk.
these pies  will require a fiercer oven than those in the preceding recipe, as they are  made so much smaller, and consequently do not require so soaking a heat.
the question remains, should the pie be eaten hot or cold?
words 606 venison pasties and apple turnovers and  runlets of ale.
[note: there is no reference to product size sold in 1905 vs. today.
this becomes very evident in an ultimate frisbee match, where a team, of seven players tries to pass a frisbee down a 60-yard field without letting it hit the ground or be blocked by an opposing team of seven...
he says the method applies also  to other edibles that combine layers of dough with liquid or moist filing, such  as upside-down cakes, puddings and dumplings.
seasonable from september  to march.
the soft, baked crispy dough that the  neapolitans called sfiziosa would be folded over into a libretto (little book)  and consumed in the hand.
have some boards thick enough to prevent the bottom of the meringues from getting baked in the oven.
(see the directions  for raised pies, page 785).
it is very rich; serve in small slices with strawberries or raspberries and soured cream.
[note: this snippet does not provide a recipe or elaborate on the "two ways" of crust making.]
the differences between asian and african yams, which were separated only in historic times by the drying up of the intervening land, arabia, are also slight...even within the main cultivated species, yams vary to a remarkable extent in size, shape, and colour...
pop-tarts represented both a diversification from cereal and an expansion of the cereal line into a breakfast line...
oronoque orchards [stratford ct], a local farm stand famous for its pies, may have actually eclipsed pet-ritz by a couple of months.
the pour the cooked part over the beaten egg whites and with a wire-hand whip fold together easily but well.
the oldest mention we find in print for the frozen pie implies the recipe existed at least as early as the 1970s.
her pirogs tended to include pieces of meat, fish, or poultry with grains and vegetables and almost no forcemeat (stuffing)..." ---classic russian cooking, elena molokhovets' "a gift to young housewives," 1861, translated and introduced by joyce toomre [indiana university press:1992] (p. 273) samosas/sanbusaq "samosa...are small, crisp, flaky pastries made in india, usually fried by sometimes baked.
slice in two onions, a carrot; put in a little salt and pepper, and water enough to cover it; then cover it with a crust, made with cream tartar...
the of the term  remains uncertain although there is a resort island near sicily which is called
---"natchitoches meat pie is a spicy taste of history," john demers, upi,hutchinson news [ks], october 13, 1982 (p. 10) [note:
in this case, the heat must not be fierce at starting, only at the end for the pie to brown well.
for a plain dish, bake it for fifteen to twenty minutes.
if pissaladiere is the most familiar of the french  pizzas, galette de perouges is the most surprising.
lemons ripen and begin to fall during the month of may." ---"sunday's gardener," los angeles times, june 19, 1960 (p. m50)
generally, individual items are priced higher than larger quantities.
[oxford university press:oxford] 2002 (p. 259) "the term pizza is clouded in some ambiguity, though it may derive from an old italian word meaning a point, which in turn led to the italian word pizzicare, to pinch or pluck.
in 1934 irvin swartzberg of chicago began selling gallon bottles of fresh lemon juice to bars and restaurants, and, after perfecting a method of concentrating the juice with water, sold the prdouct in the market under the name puritan-realemon."
their rights and duties were also defined, and certain rules were established...
before serving it cover it with 1 cup of cream whipped, to which 1 teaspoon of vanilla and (if desired) 3 tablespoonsful of sugar have been added.
bake five minutes and chill.
ken albala [greenwood press:westport ct] 2003 (p. 51-2) lemons and scurvy "
the initial burner and pot, which cost $6.95, have evolved into a restaurant with three dining rooms capable of seating 100."
[henry holt:new york] 1997 (p. 570) about pet-ritz: "pet-ritz pie co. was started by the petritz family.
they struggled for the rest of their lives to keep their recipe a secret.
"a turnover is a sort of small, typically individual pie or pasty, in  which the filling is placed on one side of a piece of rolled-out pastry and the  other side is then turned over' to cover it, forming a semicircular shape.
" ---"the kitchen," texas siftings, [austin tx] february 6, 1886 (p. 3) [1914] "texas pecan pie cook together one cup of sweet milk, one cupful of sugar, three well beaten eggs, one tablespoonful of flour and one half cupful of finely chopped pecan meats.
in the thirteenth century arabic cookery book of  al-baghdadai, sanbusaj is described as a stuffed triangular pastry fried in  sesame oil.
[1839] "a peach pot-pie.
" ---cooking a la ritz, louis diat [j.b. lippincott company:new york] 1941 (p. 399) about lemon cookery lemons (and other citrus fruits) were known to ancient cooks.
the inside of the crown is filled with chiboust cream (also known as saint honore cream') or chantilly cream.
heublein cordials provide the spirits that give each sweet masterpiece inimitable flavor.
" ---"advertising news,"new york times, december 19, 1951 (p. 56) [1953] "pizza, not undergoing a curious gustatory vogue, is a hot freezing item in new york and chicago with at least a half dozen local concerns in action.
we can mail/fax/scan if you like.]
roll out one-quarter of the dough at a time on a lighly flowered board to the  thickness of about one-eighth inch or less.
some pie-type foods are made forindividual consumption.
it was only at the beginning of the 19th century that the term became current, and it then meant a tart with a filling of egg and cream...
sprinkle a little powedered sugar over them, and bake on tins in a brisk oven.
then, as today, the industry was plagued with bad drivers  having accidents while on company time: "during a discussion on pizza delivery, one man asked his fellow  pizzamakers what he could do about his high accident rate.
most of the earliest receipts for choux paste  are for fritters...
unfortunately, very few crusts filled the bill even well enought to be rated fair...no cu food project would be complete without a close look at product cleanliness.
the letter submitted by kathly higley, st. louis missouri, who references she ate this at patti's, a family-owned restaurant in grand rivers, kentucky.
watch pastry crust during this time; if the rim starts to get too brown, shield with foil.
the peel, core and slice the apples and arrange them on the meat; scatter with a little brown sugar; the amount depends on the sweetness of the apples, but it should not be overdone.
a typical,  four-ounce serving would provide 220 to 304 calories.
according to thethe encyclopedia of american food & drink, by john mariani (p. 293) the term "shoo fly pie" was not recorded in print until 1926.
this probably means the eclair is a product of food evolution.
the should be seasoned, and beaten until light with a wooden spoon.
observe, that you are to be very expedtious in making the meringues, to prevent the sugar from melting in the eggs.
ordinary people could also enjoy the fruit they grew in their own gardens, but imported luxuries like oranges were far beyond their means.
[1685] contains this recipe: "to make a warden or a pear tart quartered.
pennsylvania dutch slippery pot pie follows a similar recipe, except for the medieval spicings.
they tossed the leftover tin back and forth to amuse themselves while waiting for a flat tire to be repaireid.
note: regular flour may be substituted for biscuit mix, but add 3/4 teaspoon baking powder.
it was regarded as an essential in the seventeenth century...
i am certain these pies are very much related to  empanadas and came about through the influence of spanish settlers in the  state.
gradually add sugar and continue beating just until mixture stands in firm peaks.
spread over the pies and bake again till brown.--mrs.
so it is unlikely the recipe was printed on the back of a box.
" ---food and drink in medieval poland: rediscovering a cuisine of the past, maria dembinska [university of pennsylvania:philadelphia] 1999 (p. 112)
when you have done this, keep them in a dry place till wanted.
prepare a pot or oven with paste, as directed for the apple pot-pie, put in the prepared peaches, sprinkle on a large handful of brown sugar, pour in plenty of water to cook the peaches without burning them, though there should be but very little liquor or syrup when the pie is done.
coincidentally, many signature dishes of the 1920s were exceptionally sweet.
russia: "pirog or pirogi: a flaky envelope of dough that can be filled with almost anything.
[doubleday:garden city] 1979 (p. 68-9) professional pastry guilds & chefs "patissiere...prehistoric man made sweet foods based on maple or birch syrup, wild honey, fruits, and seeds.
" ---"florence sewell, 95,  chicago philanthropist," art golab,chicago sun-times, april 10,  2000 (p. 56) "what is this pizza called chicago deep-dish, and what makes it so  different from other pizzas?
take about two pounds of yam, pare it, boil it till it is tender, mash it, and rub it through a sieve; beat up the yolks of eight and the whites of four eggs, with a half pint to cream, half a pound of melted butter, and same quantitiy of sugar, a gill of sack, a small glass of brandy, a little grated nutmeg and ginger, a tea-spoonful of salt, a spoonful of orange flower or rose water, put in the yam, and mix all well together; either put it in a cloth, and boil it one hour, or lay a puff-paste round the edge of the dish, pour it in, and bake it three quarters of an hour.
beat eggs not too stiff, pour in slowly the hot syrup, add the butter, vanilla, and the pecan meats, broken rather coarsely.
mr. davidson's reference to ipcf (1993) refers toinventaire du patrimoine culinare de la france, 27 volumes published between 1992-2000.
she described them as batter fried in deep fat and sprinkled with cinnamon.
you can top it with anything from sausage to ice cream.
this book also contains a recipe for orange or lemon tart and gooseberry tart.]
they are stuffed with a variety of fillings such as  cheese, cheese and egg, minced meat with herbs and spices, vegetables such as  potatoes, etc.
place egg yolks, lime juice, and 1/2 cup sugar in round bottom bowl.
first made at the beginning of the 20th century, palmiers are served with tea or as an accompaniment to ices and desserts.
the ingredients these immigrants found in their new country differed from those in the old:
[oxford university press:oxford] 2002 (p. 75) "from the sixteenth century onwards convents made biscuits and  fritters to be sold in the aid of good works...
copeland said that the impossible pie phenomenon lasted from the late 1970s through the 80s...
when boiling, add the dry flour, stir well for five minutes, and when cool add the eggs.
" --- the good housewife's jewel, thomas dawson, 1595 edition with an introduction by maggie black [southover press:east sussex] 1996 (p. 68) [1685] "to make minced pies of mutton take to a leg of mutton four pound of beef-suet, bone the leg and cut it raw into small pieces, as also the suet, mince them together very fine, and being minc't season it with two pound of currans, two pound of raisins, two pound of prunes, an ounce of caraway seed, an ounce of nutmegs, an ounce of pepper, an ounce of cloves, and mace, and six ounces of salt; stir up all together, fill the pies, and bake them as the former.
it seems to have been only in the 16th century that european cooks discovered that beating egg whites, e.g. with a whisk of birch twigs (in the absense of any better implement), produced an attractive foam.
perhaps the moniker was tagged on by an immigrant baker with a knack for marketing.
smoothness and texture are important to the successful chiffon pie.
in a frying-pan of similar diameter, heat enough oil to shallow-fry the pastries.
esposito quickly named the  newly fashionable pizza after the queen, and thus was born the pizza alla  margherita and that was to become the classic neapolitan pizza, recognized as  such by the associazone vera pizza napoletana (the true neapolitan pizza  association)...
oronoque frozen pie crust 69 cents, 2-crust-3 pie pans.
chef  carlo middione, the author ofthe food of southern italy, makes the  plausible suggestion of a muslim introduction in medieval arab times.
these were expensive items in shakespeare's age because they were imported.
our first effort was a total bactyeria count  per gram of pizza.
they're easy to make with refrigerated biscuits, a seasoned tomato  sauce and grated cheese.
importantly, the second cooking of these pastries results in the formation of a pouch or pocket--ideal for filling with savoury of sweet mixture.
a likely forebear is the sicilian  'nfigghiulata antica, which carlo middione details inthe food of southern  italy...
the basic concept of pies and tarts has changed little throughout the ages.
the name for this confection of sugar and beaten egg white is a direct borrowing from french "meringue."
we also find evidence of refrigerated pizza products penetrating grocery stores.
efficient & portable, easily re-heated  & ultimately delicious.
chef carlo middione, the author ofthe food of southern italy, makes the plausible suggestion of a muslim introduction in medieval arab times.
dot the top with butter--about 60g (2 oz)--and pour on  the alcohol.
thousands of visitors came to their tiny auberge, not to hunt but just for the pleasure of meeting the sisters and looking at the circle painted on the floor to mark the spot where the tart fell.
in the 16th century, patissier products were still quite different from the ones we know today.
travel through the regions of  france with your eyes open for anything that looks like pizza, and you'll come  back impressed not only by how plentiful these pizzas are but also by their  variety.
then gradually beat remaining 1/2 cup sugar into stiffly beaten egg whites and fold into lemon-gelatin miture.
roll out one-quarter of the dough at a time on a lighly flowered board to the thickness of about one-eighth inch or less.
" --- pizza today, june 2005 [note:  page no longer connects, 10 april 2009] french pizza?
beat egg whites stiff and gradually add sugar.
fill it with slices of the lean cold mutton, or lamb, seasoned also.
happy to fax or mail.]
but  choux paste, though by other names, can be found in even earlier books and  manuscripts.
that's usually a pretty good indicator of a food's sanitary  status...our findings were far from reassuring...
the ingredients these  immigrants found in their new country differed from those in the old: in new  york there was no buffalo-milk mozzarella, so cows's milk mozzarella was used;  oregeno, a staple southern italian herb, was replaced in america by sweet  marjoram; and american tomatoes, flour, even water, were different.
pizza as we know it today is usually  attributed to raffaele esposito, who is credited for combining pizza crust with  tomato sauce, mozzerella cheese and basil in 1889 to honorqueen margherita  [1851-1926].
yam planting in nigeria, as in the oceanian lands, was accompanied by elaborate rituals.
or cut the paste into the form of  a diamond, lay on the fruit, and fold over the paste, so as to give it a  triangular shape."
essentially it means 'pie', and this can cover for example a cloased fruit pie as well as the open pizza.
"if i don't have them, i hear about it!"
[1950] "...leo giuffre has introduced his ready-to-cook pizzas in... the last two weeks.
the primary meaning of eclair in french is lightning', and one (not very convincing) explanation advanced for its application to these cream-filled choux-pastry temptations is that it was suggested by the light gleaming from their coating of fondant icing.
grocer's notes, circa 1883 "lemon.--the fruit of a tree closely related to the orange, citron and lime...
the confusion between these two is said to be attributed to linguistics.
in the truest sense, deep-dish pizza (pizza-in-the-pan is the alternate nom de pizza) is a first-generation descendant of what italian-americans commonly referred to as "tomato pie."
a frisbee is a plastic disk about the size of a pie pan that can soar, dip or bank like a glider when thrown properly.
dot the top with butter--about 60g (2 oz)--and pour on the alcohol.
in the middle ages in france, the work of bakers overlapped with that of the pastrycooks; bakers made gingerbread and meat, cheese, and vegetable pies...
buonaparte breads at historic savage mill in savage and in baltimore produces a fine palmier, but they no longer ship them to their retail customers in the district since they are too fragile.
the pie has always been a great favorite of teh dutch, sharing this preference with new england...
--- oxford companion to food, alan davidson [oxford university press:oxford] 1999 (p. 785) "tatin.
this will take about two to two and a half hours;  the latter will not be too long in most cases, and a skewer should be passed  into the middle of the meat to test it.
originally pissalat was made from the  fry of sardines and anchovies, but because this is not readily available  outside the mediterranean area, anchovies in brine may be used instead.
cover the whole with more mashed potatoes.
a sweet element, either sugar or dried fruit, was almost always present in markham's receipts...
riccardo knew nothing about it, and there was  no decent place in chicago (according to sewell) to taste it.
when kellogg's pop-tarts were introduced, ads highlighted the item's convenience and often featured "milton the toaster."
our food reference books state palmiers (also known as palm leaves) were invented around the turn of the 20th century.
(those at the bottom of the bag do tend to break though.)
a quarter of a pound of boiled sweet potato.
crusts range from standard pastry shell to crushed cracker (graham) and cookie (gingernaps, vanilla wafers, chocolate wafers) crumbs.
on closer  inspection, however, and especially on tasting, this is no common variation on  pizza.
press firmly on sides and bottom of buttered pie plate and chill.
pop tarts quickly became national icons of baby boomer cuisine.
this thereafter was  called pizza alla margherita and became very popular in that city.
note: in testing this recipe i used real (not imitation) mayonnaise.--c.b." ---"'impossible' reuben pie is new, savory,"los angeles times, december 6, 1979 (p. oc_d40)
sweet lemons may take their place besides oranges and plumbs as a table delicacy.
it is frozen, but if it is partly thawed when it reaches your kitcen it can be refrozen safely, acording to the manufacturer.
this pie may have had its start in the fifties when creme de menthe had considerable cachet, and by the sixties it had quite a following." ---fashionable food: seven decades of food fads, sylvia lovegren
our ‘tart’ and ‘turn-over’ shop.
wet the cornstarch in cold milk, and cook in the boiling milk ten minutes.
massailot's ingredients for 'benioles', or  petit choux, are simliar to la varenne's...
perhaps this is technically true, but there can be no denying that italy  was most certainly the seedbed out of which the concept would flourish to the  fullest.
each is delicious in its own right.
" ---the french chef cookbook, julia child
most southern sweet potato recipes have been developed by black from their traditional cuisine..." ---biscuits, spoonbread, and sweet potato pie, bill neal [alfred a. knopf:new york] 1996 (p. 268)
the puff pastries called feuillantines were first made in the seventeenth century in a convent of that name...
split when cool, and fill with cream.
"king ferdinand and queen isabella may have liked [sweet potatoes] well enough to have planted them in their court gardens.
the hickories, which are related to walnut trees, include several species of edible nuts...but the pecan is much the best.
these eateries did not (have to) advertise to draw business.
[oxford university press:oxford] 2002 (p. 343-344) italian applications "timballo.
" --- ibid (p. 610-1) [1894] "pork pie, raised.--those who kill pigs of their  own have no trouble in obtaining suitable pie meat; those who buy it should be  careful to get the best quality, and to see that it is free from the slightest  taint, every slice being carefully looked over.
all these descriptions suggest that the amosa was not an item brought by these courts from their parent lands, but was an existing indigenous product, perhaps enriched in its stuffing to cater to royal courts."
press small amounts of cough into small muffin tins.
puff paste & gateau st. honore.
thus the fruit which can reasonably be regarded as the most important for european cookery was a comparatively late arrival.
this pie keeps for days.
(the oxford companion to food , alan davidson, page 717).
timbales of this kind are chiefly made of silver, sometimes of gold, or sometimes of silver plate, and are of many kinds.
squeeze theron orange juice--bake gently."
during the middle ages, only two types of buckwheat were known in poland: tartarian buckwheat ...called paganca in old polish texts; and true culinary buckwheat...
napoleons & baklava pot piepot pie "pot pies" descend from medieval savory meat pies.
they are popular accompaniment to soups, especially clear broths and borshch, or as part of zakuski (hors d'oeuvres).
this book has a map of where cobbler is popular.]
the nomenclature of of cookery is complicated not only by difficulties in establish early usage, but also by the lack of conformity of usage, not helped by the idiosyncrasies of early-modern spelling.
[1849] "a casserole of mutton butter a deep dish or mould, and line it with potatoes mashed with milk or butter, and seasoned with pepper and salt.
if pumpkins are a "new world" food, why are they sometimes listed as ingredients in medieval european recipes?
when cook add stiffly beaten egg whites which have been combined with other 1/2 cup sugar.
'we walked into town on saturdays and there would be people with little  carts, pushing them up and down the street.
reduce it almost au casse, then let it cool, while you beat your eggs well; next put them with the sugar.
early pies were large; but one can now apply the name to something small, as the small pork pies or mutton pies...
cover; let rise in warm place, free from draft, until double in bulk, about 30 minutes.
---encyclopedia of amercan food & drink, john f. mariani [lebhar-friedman:new york] 1999 (p. 260) "in a review of new york's leopard restaurant in the february 1970 issue ofgourmet, donald aspinwall allan praised the appetizers because "there is always a good quiche," including onion, ham, leek, or anchovy and olive.
then drop the remainder of the potatoes on the top, beginning at the sides--this prevents the boiling out of the gravy when the meat begins to cook--go on until all the used, making the pie highest in the middle.
it was a time when a restaurant serving only pizza was unheard of.
," renee schettler,the washington post, november 7, 2001 (p. f7) the earliest recipe we find for palm leaves (aka palmiers) in an american cookbook is from fannie farmer'sboston cooking school cook book [1896] elephant ears & goash-e-feelelephant ears & goash-e-feel this sweet pastry means different things to different people.
[north point press:new york] 1998 (p. 9)
here are three that have been published...
put on the cover, press and pinch the edges, and ornament according to taste.
with their fine flour, oils, and honey they had the materials, and with their professional bakers they had the skills.
it provided the tangy zing our fore-mothers hoped to replicate in their baked goods.
"lemon the fruit of citrus medica, a tree whose original home may have been in the north of india.
recipes suggest this item evolved from themincemeat/mince pies tradition.
[1902] "apple turnover put one pint of flour into a  bowl; add half a teaspoonful of salt, two level teaspoonfuls of baking powder;  mix thoroughly, then rub into the mixture one tablespoonful of butter, and add  sufficient milk to make a soft dough.
" ---"tribune recipes," chicago daily tribune, september 11, 1936 (p. 22) [1939] ""give us more refrigerator cakes and pies" some of my readers have begged.
culinary evidence confirms cakes, cookies, puddings, cheesecakes, tarts, jellies, and other sweet desserts often incorporated orange flavoring.
from the sixteenth century onwards convents made biscuits and fritters to be sold in the aid of good works...
[prospect books] 2003 (p. 25-40) "choux pastry is a thick batter made from flour, milk, butter, and eggs.
tart shells 1 cup butter 4 tablespoons icing sugar 2 cups flour cut the butter into the flour; add the sugar and knead until well blended.
shortly before serving it cover the top with thinly sliced: bananas.
" ---a-z of food and drink , john ayto
continue rolling and cutting circles until  all the dough has been used.
this recipe was adapted from a lemon pie recipe used by prairie cooks when the nearest lemon was "fifty miles away by oxcart.
palmiers are baked until they are crisp and the sugar caramelizes to a rich golden brown.
brush with half the butter and sprinkle with 2 tablespoons of the sugar mixture.
"coffee souffle pie 2 tablespoons granulated gelatin 1/2 cup cold water 2 cupsfuls hot coffee infusion 1/2 cupful sugar 2 eggs 1/8 teaspoonful vanilla 1 cupful cream 1 tablespoonful sugar
[yale university press:new haven] 1995 (p. 1000) "new york pizza did not exist before 1905, when gennaro lombardi, a neapolitan immigrant, began to sell pies in his grocery store in little italy.
pare and quarter apples, and boil them in sugar and water, and a stick of cinnamon, and when tender, put in a little white wine, the juice of a lemon, a piece of fresh butter, and a little ambergrease or orange-flower water; stir all together, and when it is cold put it in puff-paste, and fry them>" --- the complete housewife: or accomplish'd gentlewoman's companion, e. smith, facsimile reprint of 1753 edition [literary services and production ltd.:london] 1968 (p. 154) [1792] "apple puffs.
in some recipes, esp.
at latin american markets, they may be labeled orejas ("ears" in spanish) though the only ones i have come across are packaged in plastic, which suffocates the crisp pastry.
the original french name was pate a chaud...
shepherd's pie, a dish of minced meat (usually lamb, when made with beef it is called"cottage pie") topped with mashed potatoes was probably invented sometime in the 18th century by frugal peasant housewives looking for creative ways to serve leftover meat to their families.
pizza's main pitch for the buyer's  dollar is based on sensory appeal.
its most typical application is in the making of small round buns (as used for profiteroles) known in french as choux, literally cabbages, from their shape--hence pate a choux, the pastry used for making them.
for the palmier lover, the pastry case at georgetown's sedate sen5es bakery and restaurant is a sight to behold.
the meat should be fairly fat, and is best from a bacon pig, but  the loin or neck of pork may be used; the foreloin is preferred by many.
those bacteria can thrive at freezing temperatures will get a chance to increase inordinately in a pizza that's mishandled or stays overlong in a retail showcase...
press the top down with the knuckles of the right hand, and  with the left press the outside closely to keep it firm and smooth.
roll on a lightly floured surface into a circle to fit a deep, 10-inch pie plate.
food historians traces these dishes to the  middle ages, if not before.
in the middle east the traditional shape of sanbusak is a half-moon, usually with edges crimped or marked with the fingernails; but triangular shapes are also used.
both desserts have striking similarities.
william harrison mentions them in the 1577 edition ofthe description of england, but recipes for them do not appear in english cookbooks until the 1580s, when thomas dawson offered the recipe, much quoted by social historians of tudor england, on how 'to make a tart that is a courage to a man or woman.'
now  raise the crust in either a round or oval form, cut up the pork into pieces the  size of a nut, season it in the above proportion, and press it compactly into  the pie, in alternate layers of fat and lean, and pour in a small quantity of  water; lay on the lid, cut the edges smoothly round, and pinch them together.
they're perfct when you buy them.
lampedusa's timballo is perhaps the summa of an ancient tradition rather than the product of a single recipe.
" ---oxford companion to food, alan davidson [oxford university press:oxford] 1999 (p. 125) (calsone is the british spelling for calzone)
porter's new southern cookery book, mrs. m. e. porter [1871] (p. 296) [1879] "lemon pie.
" ---"story of 2 pizzerias and 1.5 million pizzas," chicago tribune, july 31, 1964 (p. c6)
mince-pies must be baked in tin patties; because of taking them out, and puff-paste is best for them.
young blackie, waiter at tom's pizzeria napolitana, who tells you how tom and  his wife, molly, took him off the street ten years ago, made known the other  specialties of the place--stuffed macaroni, eggplant parmigiano, and cannoli,  an italian dessert, with sweet, cold italian cottage cheese served in a fold of  ice cream cone like pastry." ---"front views and profiles,"  june provines,chicago daily tribune, october 17, 1939 (p. 17) the second pizzeria opened (according the general concensus of local food  experts), opened on the southwest corner of onio street and wabash avenue in  1943: ""when riccardo opened the uno, there was only one other  place to buy pizza in chicago and that was on taylor street," [ike] sewell  said.
the of the term remains uncertain although there is a resort island near sicily which is called
add the  scallions, parsley, salt, pepper and chopped pepper.
" ---a mediterranean feast, clifford  a. wright
the derivation of the word may be from magpie, shortened to pie.
sprinkle dough with half the sugar-nut mixture.
the tarte flambee of alsace may be the world's northernmost indigenous and legitimate pizza.
this will take about two to two and a half hours; the latter will not be too long in most cases, and a skewer should be passed into the middle of the meat to test it.
just consider their backgrounds: there are cornish pasties, which indicate the early presence of welsh miners in michigan, the mexican-influenced empanadas and empanaditas of the west and southwest, and the curiously named hot-ta-meat pies of louisiana that indicate a borrowing from the spanish.
" ---"pizza: some topping facts, "press association november 11, 2002 our survey of articles published in the new york times (proquest database) uncovered an advertisement for this franchise opportunity "fresh pizza trucks, "the pizzeria on wheels" (nyt, june 5, 1960, p. f26).
" ---ibid (p. 518) "4349:
beat egg whites until foamy and add sugar and beat until stiff.
the custard could not be more than three-fourths of an inch deep.
refrigerator pierefrigerator pie refrigerator pies (aka ice box pies) descend from refrigerator cake and other no-bake recipes made popular during the great depression.
from this tradition sprang two primary recipe lines: savory raised pies and  sweet compactmincemeat dishes.
"pirog day"...the third day after  a marriage, was traditionally the time when the young bride offered guests a  selection of pirogs and pirozhki.
the first record of a pizzeria in new york was gennaro lombardi's, opened in 1905 on spring street, but others quickly followed in the italian communities around the city.
pot pie is a closely related recipe.
but until i opened my kitchen here, people made them in their homes and sold them in their homes.'
set the dish in the oven and let bake until the marshmallows melt and are brown on top." ---"efficient housekeeping," laura a. kipkman, los angeles times, june 23, 1921 (p. ii8)
did you know recipes for  tomato pie, both open tarts and double-crust (what we now call "stuffed  pizza"), were also known to american cooks in the early 19th century?
riccardo returned having stumbled upon a better idea--pizza.
chiffon pies remained popular right through the '70s.
---dictionary of italian food and drink, john mariani [broadway books:new york] 1998 (p. 196-199) note this book also has much more information on the the history of pizza.
to be fair, such a dismal bateriological showing doesn't necessarily mean that a food is leaving the factory in filthy condition.
[magazine]2 feb 50/1 a waiter, whereon, stood..a plate of macaroons, eclairs  and sponge cake."
from the middle of the 16th century on, actual recipes for pastry begin to appear.
nor, indeed, was there a latin word for lemon.
pizza's main pitch for the buyer's dollar is based on sensory appeal.
a selection of quiche lorraine recipes [1903] 1230 quiche a la lorraine (for 10 persons) line an 18-20 cm (7-8 in) plain or fluted flan case with ordinary short paste taking care that the sides are a little higher than the rim of the case.
ms. casas mentions on p. 64 of this  book that empanada de lomo (pork pie) is the most commonly prepared galician  pie.] "empanada.
after he shapes the pizza shell  out of dough, mr. bucci spreads on a "sealing agent" such as tomato  puree, and bakes it.
[note: these pies were complete, no indication crust were also sold separately.]
kellogg's pop tarts descend from the venerable culinary tradition of personal-sizedportable pies.
" ---the lady's companion, sixth edition, volume ii
despite his sense of ownership, lasyone insisted he was not interested in shepherding his meat pies to fast-food fame...'i would rather for someone else to buy the recipe...making meat pie is really a job.
pinapple is one of the perennial favorites.
he tells us that there are two kinds, 'one round, and plumpe  like an apple; the other also round, but much flatter'...in 1706 'petits choux'  crops up in edward phillips' dictionary,new world of english words, 'a  sort of paste for garninshing made of fat cheese, flower, eggs, salt, etc.  bake'd in a pye-pan, and ic'd over with fine sugar'...there are several  receipts found in early european cookbooks and manuscripts that broadly refer  to what today's cooks call 'choux paste,' or what we have referred to as  'twice-cooked' pastry.
still, it is very chiffonlike.
you'll call 'em the most convenient, tasty  change-of-pace breakfast idea that's come along to brighten you your mornings  in a long, long time.
(2) lasyone's is "the meat pie's origins are shrouded in history, lost in the days when indian met spaniard in the forests around the oldest settlement in the louisiana purchase.
when true meringue made its appearance in the 17th century, it still lacked its name and was often called "sugar puff.
---english food, jane grigson [penguin books:london] 1994 (p. 231-2)
destination pasty... up michigan (everywhere) & rocky's in wharton, nj.
that recipe, for neapolitan pie orpizza alla napolitana, directed that pizza dough be hand-stretched until it was one-quarter-inch-thick.
many food history reference books attribute the origin of shoofly pie to the pennslyvania dutch.
"there are many variations of goash-e-feel, so do not feel limited as to the size and shapes you can make.
a culinary history, jean-louis flandrin & massimo montanari [columbia university:new york] 1999 (p.281-2) see also: cakes.
this recipe has been modernized for contemporary kitchens: wet-bottomed shoofly pie 3/4 cup flour 1/2 cup brown sugar 1/2 tsp cinnamon 1/8 tsp each nutmeg, ginger, and ground cloves 1/2 tsp salt 2 tablespoons shortening 1 egg yolk, beaten well 1/2 cup barrel molasses 3/4 cup boiling water 1/2 tsp baking soda
punch down and let rise an additional 30 minutes.
" ---"walking truck-boat  just puts one pontoon before the other: frozen pizza...," stacy v. jones, new york times, feburary 6, 1954 (p. 23)
somemodern pork pies don't contain any pork at all!
neither do they attibute the creation of this confection to a specific chef or agree on the history behind the name.
176 an old woman..preparing her turnovers, commonly called apple-pies.
roll out in a sheet half an inch thick; cut with a biscuit cutter into circles.
send it hot to table."
when the sugar begins to get cool, mix the eggs well with it with a wooden spoon; then mix two spoonsful of marasquin with the whole; dress the meringues on some paper as above, and glaze with sugar sifted over them, before you put them into the oven, which, by the by, is not to be so hot as for other meringues.
---ibid (p. 408-9) [1869] "meringues.
the appropriately faint sweetness is underscored by a crisp, barely colored pastry that, lacking much caramelization, in truth seems almost more butter cookie than palmier...
take a loin of pork, skin it, cut it into stakes, season it with salt, nutmeg, and pepper; make a good crust, lay a layer of pork, and then a large layer of pippins pared and cored, a little sugar, enough to sweeten the pye, then another layer of pork; put in half a pint of white wine, lay some butter on the top, and close your pye: if your pye be large, it will take a pint of white wine."
post's country squares had evolved into post toast-em pop-ups, but post finally gave up and sold the marketing rights in the early 1970s.
the ran neck  and neck in the amount of sauce.
our dictionaries, word history books and food history reference sources generally agree the term cobbler, as it applies to a fruit dessert covered with rough biscuit dough, originated in the american west in the middle of the 19th century.
hot dog," thomas morrow,chicago daily tribune, august 3, 1954 (p. 18)
drain well on absorbent toweling.
take the potatoes boil them, peel them, beat them in a mortar, mix them with yolks of eggs, a little sack, sugar, a little beaten mace, a little nutmeg, a little cream, or melted butter, work it up into a paste, then make it into cakes, or just what shapes you please with moulds, fry them brown in fresh butter, lay them in plates or dishes, melt butter with sack and sugar, and pour over them.
it's a real refrigerator.
in 1948, walter fred morrison, a west coast inventor and building inspector, made plastic versions and marked them as flying saucers, in 1957, wham-o discovered the popularity of a game called frisbie that was played mostly on college campuses on the east coast.
it seems i should have requested the rather inelegantly named "pig's ear."
---the laurel health cookery, evora bucknum perkins
these my be arranged alternatively with slices of gruyere cheese but the addition of cheese is optional and is not correct as far as local custom is concerned.
" ---american century cookbook: the most popular recipes of the 20th century, jean anderson [clarkson potter:new york] 1997 (p. 384) late 19th century newspapers (mostly from texas) offer pecan pie recipes.
it is frozen, but if it is partly thawed when it reaches your kitcen  it can be refrozen safely, acording to the manufacturer.
a richer pastry, intended to be eaten, was used to make small pasties containing eggs or little birds which were among the minor items served at banquets....
melton mowbray pork pies are protected by eu  law.
on closer inspection, however, and especially on tasting, this is no common variation on pizza.
each package contains three individual portions.
" ---"souffer's heats up frozen foods mart," chicago tribune, february 26, 1976 (p. c10)
these were frequently imported in the tens of thousands per ship, and occasionally as many as a hundred thousand (in march 1480).
(margarine doesn't need to melt.)
" --- panola watchman [carthage tx], november 20, 1958 (p. 44) [1961] "you!
pastry soak the gelatin in the cold water and add the hot coffee infusion and one-half cupful of sugar.
the food industry oohed and aahed; the business press buzzed; grocers waited expectantly.
small tarts would be made with a rich pastry of fine white flour, butter, sugar, saffron, and other good things, certainly meant to be eaten.
the doughs take many different forms, from puff pastry to those made with cornmeal.
"pizza came to america at the end of the nineteenth century with  immigrants from southern italy.
a site was leased, and riccardo  began painting bullfights and cockfights on the walls.
"dioscorea cayenesi" is the principal species grown in west africa.
consumable products (p. 309-310) [note: this book contains a list of sources for further study.]
they made it in a copper pan about 9 inches across and 3 inches deep.
general mills' home economists developed variations for impossible chicken n' broccoli pie, for enchilada, lasagna, taco, pizza and beef mushroom impossible pies, even an impossible turkey n' stuffing pie..." ---"mission: impossible pie: the secret's in the batter," joyce rosencranz,houston chronicle, june 9, 1993, food (p. 1) [1968] "impossible pie 4 eggs, beaten well 2 cups milk 1 3/4 cups sugar 1/2 cup melted butter 1 tablespoon vanilla 1 can (7 ounces) flaked coconut blend together sugar and flour.
according to an  kellogg's advertisement published in the los angeles times october 28, 1965 (p.  d15): blueberry, strawberry, apple-currant and brown sugar-cinnamon.
yet as the palmiers bake, the moisture in the butter-riddled layers evaporates, causing the dough to puff into hundreds of paper-thin flakes.
the usual course suggested for it is vulgar latin *picea, a dervative of latin pix, 'pitch' (in which case it would be an amost directly parallel formation with english pikelet), but it could also be related to greek pitta.
they came up with a balance of cheese and sausage and spices and decreed that it should be used in abundance.
but the competition is tough.
[note: the ad also mentions smuckers brand jelly and preserves was used for the filling.]
it's difficult to determine from the primary evidence.
" ---the grocer's companion and merchant's hand-book
these will be very large.
thirteen years ago, when 'chiffon' pies were originated, i did not know that the word would ever be known to anyone but myself.
even spring rolls--the  more refined version of egg rolls, which can most certainly be classified as  turnovers--can be found almost anywhere in the nation where chinese chefs have  settled.
the  galette is baked in a hot oven until the sugar caramelizes and the crust  becomes brittle; unlike most pizzas, this dough is not chewy but crunchy.
" ---"live to eat in macy's food  festival,"new york times, april 22, 1954 (p. 7) [1954] "petite foods corporation, brooklyn...its line of  frozen food specialties, one of which rejoices in an unlikely name, of little  bo-pizzas, a miniature frozen pizza product.
the lemon grows wild in the north of india and has been long cultivated among the arabs who carried its culture into europe and africa.
it quickly became a staple of the region.
researchers are also faced with establishing the  meaning of archaic terms and technical expressions.
culinary evidence confirms it took several generations before many "new world" foods were accepted by the general public.
we were disappointed by the crusts, taste or high bacteria counts on all  but four brands, and we could rate those bands only fair.
the popular dumplings made with buckwheat and known today in southern poland as pierogi ruskie did not enter polish cookery until the nineteenth century, when they came to poland from russia.
" ---common sense in the household: a manual of practical housewifery, marion harland
it could be that pork fat was once used as the shortening, or it might be a reflection of the wonderful cape breton sense of humor.
russia: "pirog or pirogi: a flaky envelope of dough that can be filled with  almost anything.
add the salt or butter, and when cool, flavor with lemon, vanilla, or almond.
orange water (aka orangeflower water) was popular in france during the seventeenth century.
the oxford english dictionary traces the first use of the word "pie" as it relates to food to 1303, noting the word was well-known and popular by 1362.
pecan piepecan pie food historians generally agree pecan pie is a twentieth century invention inspired by traditional sugar pies and sweet nut confections.
serves 6." ---louis diat's home cookbook: french cooking for americans [j.b. lippincott:philadelphia] 1946 (p. 76)
[london:1747]chapter viii, "of pies."
but this paste is neither the puff-paste so beloved by french and english cooks from the sixteenth century or earlier--and known in france as pate feuilletee and in england as butter pasted and puff or puft paste--nor is it what today we would recognize as choux paste.
begin by making the family's favorite pie crust or the regulation of one of 1 cupful of flour, 3 tablespoonfuls of shortening, 1/2 teaspoonful of salt and enough ice water to mix.
whether sent out with after-dinner espresso at michel richard's citronelle in georgetown or nibbled as an elegant something to satisfy a sweet tooth on a leisurely afternoon, the palmier can be an amazing thing.
this thereafter was called pizza alla margherita and became very popular in that city.
lemons were actively promoted in 1928 for several different uses besides eating: "in this era of beautiful women, lemons are becoming very popular as cosmetics for the hands, face and hair.
stir in gelatin, lemon juice and salt.
here's the recipe from the hiram walker people just as it appeared in all sorts of advertising a couple of years ago.
but this paste is neither the puff-paste so  beloved by french and english cooks from the sixteenth century or earlier--and  known in france as pate feuilletee and in england as butter pasted and puff or  puft paste--nor is it what today we would recognize as choux paste.
they are more explicit than any contemporary french manuscripts and indicate long-standing familiarity with the technique.
other ingredients included pine nuts, walnuts, dates, almonds, and poppy seeds.
huhner mit einer decke, hinkelboi cut up 2 young hens, place them in a deep pot lined with pastry dough and thin slices of salt pork or ham.
"the same ships that carried spices also tended to carry fruit, such as oranges, of which a surprising number were brought to england.
nor were they *worthy* of recognition by mainstream newspapers or menu collectors.
stir in flour, working with hands.
bake in middle of oven for 1 hour at 275 degrees f. cool.
quiche's enduring popularity into the seventies had a great deal to do with the scope it allowed creative cooks.
for the rest of their lives the tatin sisters basked in the glory of their tart.
cheshire pork pie cheshire pork pie descends from the long and  venerable line of english meat pies.
in a thirteenth-century arabic cookery book of al baghdadi,  sanjusaj is described as a stuffed triangular pastry fried in sesame oil...
recipe search: pumpkin pie of course, you can always make your pie from scratch with real pumpkins!
he will let on that 50 pounds of beef is mixed with 10 pounds  of pork, that the fried pastry is something between a turnover and a taco and  that a louisiana-style dark gravy is added to the mixture at the end of the  cooking process.
[john wiley:new york] 1979 (p. 518) "4348: italian meringue place 500 g.
certainly the idea of cooking a paste of flour,  butter and liquid and then adding eggs to produce a small puffed pastry cake  was known to some french cooks at the start of the seventeenth century...
[the good housewife's jewell, london]...1596.
bake in a preheated 400-degree oven until bottom and sides are well-browned and top is golden--30 minutes.
this book has a recipe for key lime pie.]
"potatoe pudding a second way.
---the kentucky housewife, lettice bryan, facsimile reprint of 1839 edition stereotyped by shepard & stearns:cincinnati [image graphics:
lay fine sugar at the bottom, then your plumbs, cherries, or any other sort of fruit, and sugar at top; then put on your lid, and bake tem in a slack oven.
mash the sweet potato very smooth, and rub it through a siever.
[new england grocer office:boston] 1883 (p. 74-5) these notes illustrate the growing popularity of lemons, as imported fruit, in the 19th century.
the potatoes will absorb some of the gravy and be very savoury.
those unsavory  intruders turned up in every brand, and represent a higher level of such  contamination than we have found in any other food category...
in the late 1950s, fred morrison, a pie-tin tosser of notable skill, took the idea to wham-o. the company.
the peel, core and slice the apples and arrange them on the  meat; scatter with a little brown sugar; the amount depends on the sweetness of  the apples, but it should not be overdone.
the word probably entered french from german, as did many other french words ending in -ingue.
the  provencal version of the pissaladiere is often garnished with two of the  region's signature ingredients: black olives and sliced tomatoes, both in  minuscule amounts by our standard.
[ahrens publishing:new york] second edition, 1951(p. 161,162)
according to these recipes, marshmallows were layered casserole-style or placed on top of the finished dish for decoration.
from these sparse ingredients they fashioned shoo-fly pie and found that their families liked it so well that they soon made it all year round.
"they kept fooling around with it in our labs," recalls stan
calzone are usually  associated with naples, where they can also be made with sausage and mozzarella  cheese, but are found, famously, throughout southern italy, sometimes  deep-fried.
modern cape breton pork pies,  however, are different.
at the end of the 20th century the quiche has become the subject of innuerable variations..." ---oxford companion to food, alan davidson [oxford university press:oxford] 1999 (p. 644) about quiche in the united states "although a rudimentary quiche appeared in irma rombauer's self-publishedjoy of cooking (1931), hot quiche lorraine tartlets in june platt's plain and fancy cookbook (1941), and a full-sized quiche lorraine in the 1951joy of cooking, quiche madness didn't descend upon us until the late 1970s and go-go 80s, when chefs outdid themselves dreaming off-the-wall combos..." ---the american century cookbook: the most popular recipes of the 20th century, jean anderson [clarkson potter:new york] 1997 (p. 206)
given its yellowing state, however, its purple prose, and whimsical jester illustrations, i suspect that it belongs to the late 50s or, possible, the early 60s." --- american century cookbook: the most popular recipes fo the 20th century, jean anderson [clarkson potter:new york] 1997 (p. 372) "grasshopper pie.
it was purely and simply a crazy idea at that time, and yet today chiffon pie is known to people in every walk of life; and is probably the most talked of and the highest publicized of all pies.
a vine native to the new world tropics...
they were commonplace by the 16th century.
cover with pastry in the usual way, and brush with beaten egg or  top of the milk.
it is quite likely, although we cannot verify in print.
the closest related item (ingredients/region) we find isjapanese fruitcake.
swiss cheese, thinly sliced 2 cups milk 3 eggs and 1 yolk, beaten 1 tablespoon flour 1/2 teaspoon salt a little nutmeg 1 tablespoon butter line an 8 to 10-inch pie plate with the tart pastry.
put the mixture in a big pastry bag with a large plain tube and form into round or oblong shapes on white paper placed on a baking sheet.
vintage frozen key lime pie 2 eggs, separated 1 14-ounce can sweetened condensed milk 1/2 cup lime juice 1 teaspoon grated lime zest (if desired) 1/2 cup sugar 1 graham cracker pie crust beat egg yolks until thick and lemon-colored.
their juice was used as a condiment, especially on fish because its acidity was thought to cut through the "gluey humors" abounding in seafood, making them more digestible.
but in fact,cottage pie is a much older term thanshepherd's pie, which does not crop up until the 1870s; on 29 august 1791 we find that enthusiastic recorder of all his meals, the reverend james woodford, noting in his diary dinner to day, cottage-pye and rost beef' (it is not clear precisely what he meant bycottage pie, however).
put on the cover, press and pinch the edges, and ornament according to  taste.
if pissaladiere is the most familiar of the french pizzas, galette de perouges is the most surprising.
pizza-type foods are popular throughout the mediterranean region.
bake in a brick oven, which should be slow, as the meat is very solid.
"sack" is a type of sweet wine.]
make a crust and put it round the sides of your pot, then cut your meat in small pieces, of whatever kind the pot pie is to be made of, and season it with pepper and salt, then put it in the pot and fill it with water, close it with paste on the top; it will take three hours doing."
pot pies are as old as pastry making itself.
[arco publishing company:new york] 1978 (p. 408) "meringues au marasquin au sucre chaud
bake in a preheated 375-degree f. oven about 10 to 15 minutes, or until done.
nobody has disputed his claim to having the oldest pizzeria in the united states....gennaro said, "they all came here to eat my pizza, all the opera stars, scotti, tetrazzini, caruso..." ---"pizza a la mode," herbert mitgang,the new york times, february 12, 1956 (p. sm 133)
however, cooking such a foam would not have resulted in meringue, for any fat in the mixture, as represented by the cream, prevents the egg whites from taking on the proper texture...
these oragnes were probably always a bitter variety.
mix bacon, onion and seasonings and scatter some  over the pork.
if you would like the original recipe please let us know.
pop-tarts were marketed than and now as a food of convenience and a snack of  nutrition...
stir in lime juice and zest, stirring until mixture thickens.
spread puff-paste on a soup-plate.
jean a. voltz, inthe flavor of the south (1977), explains that the recipe developed with the advent of sweetened condensed milk in 1856.
cook in the double boiler five minutes.
true yams are old world (there is one varietal exception) and sweet potatoes are new world (peru).
bake in slow oven until brown.
like "little bo-pizzas," delightful miniature hors d'oeuvres pizzas from the petite food corporation.
and  many of them are served at room temperature.
the windy city's first pizzeria opened at 907 taylor st. in 1924: "the only place in chicago where you can buy italian pizza is at a little  restaurant on taylor street near halsted.
a dessert pie made with green creme de menthe cordial, gelatin, and whipped cream.
" ---the accomplisht cook, robert may, facisimile reprint 1685 edition
the ile-de-france contains the information on gateau st. honore.
put ot it two naples biscuits grated very fine, half a pound of butter, a quarter of a pound of sugar, and the yolks of six eggs.
the hopper is first so thoroughly dried out in the head of the sun or in the bake oven that there is nothing left that is really objectionable, and a nice crispy article of food results.
crack the coconut, discard the outer shell, and pare away the brown skin.
a sandwich made with pizza dough folded over a variety of  ingredients, most often mozzarella and sliced pepperoni.
the foundation of pizza is a dough similar to that in english muffins.
during the middle  ages, only two types of buckwheat were known in poland: tartarian buckwheat  ...called paganca in old polish texts; and true culinary buckwheat...
the sweet potato is the cultivated descendant of a wild plant, the remais of whose tubers have been found in a cave in peru inhabited before 8000bc.
yams became so important within the western section of the continent that they took on mythical proportions.
they neatly filled it with circles of fruit cut, covered it with a single pastry crust, put a lid and baked it by sliding it under the glowing wood embers in the huge hearth.
1 recipe for coconut filling 3 eggs 1 partially baked 9-inch pie shell beat the eggs into the coconut filling.
also, it's a real pie.
the  term is first recorded at the end of the eighteenth century: an old woman  preparing her turnovers, commonly called apple-pies' (sporting magazine,  1798).
the 1931 edition of irma s. rombauer's joy of cooking gave a recipe for lemon chiffon.
the distinction between savoury and sweet pies  did not become really obvious in the cookery books until around 1720.
sufficient, one pound of pastry will  make two dozen turnovers.
cream butter and sugar and add eggs one at a time, reserving the whites of 12 for meringue.
] "turnovers.--make some good pastry, roll it out to the thickness of a quarter of an inch, and stamp it in rounds from four to seven inches in diameter, lay fresh fruit and sugar, or jam, on one half of the pastry, moisten the edges, and turn the other half right over.
"the british pork pie...are survivals of the medieval tradition of raised pies, and have changed surprisingly little.
'we walked into town on saturdays and there would be people with little carts, pushing them up and down the street.
roll each slice into a four-inch circle, using remaining sugar-nut mixture in place of flour on board, coating both top and bottom of each circle.
queen marie antoinette is said to have enjoyed these.
it is quite likely the original cape breton  pork pies employed lard from these animals.
we have a copy of the original 1927 french edition.
a sweet element, either sugar or dried fruit, was almost always  present in markham's receipts...
[yale university press:new haven] 1995 (p. 1000) "new york pizza did not exist before 1905, when gennaro lombardi, a  neapolitan immigrant, began to sell pies in his grocery store in little italy.
" ---redlands daily facts [ca], january 8, 1963 (p. 8) "pet-ritz...frozen pie crust shells, pkg of 2, 39 cents.
when the pies are done, take from the oven just long enough to spread the meringue over the top, and set back for three minutes.
then egg the pie over, and put in a good oven.
recipes like refrigerator pie easily adapt to whatever the cook has on hand.
for refrigerator pies (except for the pre-baked crust) never see the oven.
foods like these transcend time and place.
in sixteenth- and  seventeenth-century england there were other words that sometimes (but by no  means always) denoted a choux paste product, including 'benets'...'puffs' and  certain types of 'fritters'...
fill one-half of each sircle of  dough with about three tablespoons of filling, leaving a margin for sealing  when the dough is folded.
" --- good housekeeping book of menus, recipes, and household discoveries [good housekeeping:new york] 1922 (p. 183)
arab cookery books of the 10th and 13th  centuries refer to these pastries as sanbusak (the pronunciation still current  in egypt, syria, and lebanon), sanbusaq, or sanbusaj, all reflecting the early  medieval form of this persian word: sanbosag.
[alfred a. knopf:new york] 1972 (p. 240-1) related foods?
key lime ice box pie [1958] "lime icebox pie 1 cup graham cracker crumbs 3 tablespoons butter 2 eggs, separated 1/4 cup sugar 1 15-oz.
[1932] "lemon chiffon pie mix 2 tablespoon of butteer with 1 cup of sugar.
[university of  pennsylvania:philadelphia] 1999 (p. 112)
whip cream and fold half of it into the thick lemon mixture.
post seems to have been more confused.
take two pounds of potatoes, boil them, peel them, bruise them fine, and rub them through a sieve with the back of a wooden spoon, mix them with half a pound of fine sugar, a pound of fresh butter melted, a glass of sack or brandy, half a nutmeg grated, a little lemon peel shred fine, and beat up six eggs well and put in; mix all the ingredients well together, and put in half a pound of currants clean washed and picked; dip your cloth into boiling water, put in the pudding, tie it close, and boil it one hour; when it is done turn it into the dish, pour melted butter, sack and sugar mixed over it, and send it to table hot.
its extreme similarity to the provencal pissaladiere, a dough base covered generally with onions, olives, and anchovies, would make it tempting to assume that italian somehow acquired the word from french, were it not for the fact that italian pizza actually denotes a far wider range of items than what english-speakers would recognize as pizza.
(when you consider the labor-intensive nature of puff pastry, you understand why one would want to use every last piece.)
deep fry in 375 degree oil for 3 minutes on each side until golden brown.
pour boiling water over soda until dissolved; then add to molasses mixture.
many cultures developed similar foodstuffs though the pastry/bread &  fillings differed with region, religion and seasonal availability.
but it tastes so good cold.
the earliest recipes we find combining sweet potatoes (& to a lesser extent, yams) with marshmallows date to the 1920s.
" ---"frozen foods: nation eats mountain tonnage of them as competition cuts prices,"wall street journal, march 5, 1953 (p. 1) [1954] "another of the week's 652 patents was granted to joseph bucci of philadelphia for a method of making in frozen form that popular delicacy, pizza, sometimes called tomato pie.
the crust may be made in two different ways.
[robert m. mcbride:new york] 1930 (p. 139) about yams and sweet potatoes
roll out each piece into 1/8 to 1/4 inch, turning to coat both sides with sugar.
fold in 1 tub of the whipped topping.
could you get the recipe?-- m. herzog, highland beach a. executive chef michael norton provided the recipe, which uses typical key lime pie ingredients -- but with several significant differences in their use.
[firefly  books:buffalo] 1999 (p. 350) "...on the more modest end of the culinary scale, we come to  buckwheat, which was primarily consumed in the villages.
in one form or another, pizza has been a basic part of the italian  diet since the stone age, and italians have devised more ways of interpreting  the dish than anyone else...italian pizza evolved from the basic concepts  initiated by two different cultures: the etrucans in the north and the greeks  in the south...
with the advent of modern mass production and freezing capabilities, pet-ritz fruit pies became one of the midwest's leading brands of frozen fruit pies...because of consumer acceptance of frozen convenience products in the early 1960s, the frozen foods division expanded into other product areas.
pack the fat and lean closely into the pie in alternate layers until it is filled.
[oxford university press:oxford] 2002 (p. 258) "though the french influence is everywhere in this country, a few foods that are common in france have managed to escape our dragnet.
there bear striking resemblance in both ingredients and method to pompion (pumpkin) pies of the 17th century.
what local cooks had learned to rely on was the sweetened condensed milk gail borden had begun canning shortly before the civil war."
---encyclopedia of american food and drink,  john f. mariani [lebhar-freidman:new york] 1999 (p. 313) "stromboli is a crusty brown, overstuffed loaf dish which is popular  in several us regions with numerous italian-american residents.
sweet treacle pies were popular all over medieval europe.
a half-glass of rose-water.
they are popular  accompaniment to soups, especially clear broths and borshch, or as part of  zakuski (hors d'oeuvres).
after it is baked, besprinkle it with sugar and serve.
pumpkins, however, are new world foods.
to rolls out a piece the size of  a pie crust on his marble slab, cuts up fresh italian cheese over it, covers it  with tomato--the little italian pear tomato--sprinkles olive oil over it, and  deposits it in the brick oven for a few minutes.
as daily fare, meat pies were enormously popular with the pennsylvania dutch because they made use of leftovers or poorer grades for meat.
the earliest recipe we have on file was published in 1968.
it was taken into cultuvation during the last centuries bc, well before th etime of the incas, and became a staple food all over tropical america as far north as mexico and on the caribbean islands.
having been made famous by the tatin sisters, it was first served in paris at maxim's, where it remains a specialty to the present day.
fillings may be of meat, mushrooms, cheese, cabbage, or potatoes--all seasoned.
about pastry ---includes notes on shortcrust, puff paste, choux, and profiteroles grasshopper piegrasshopper pie food historians and primary evidence place the genesis of this american pie in the late 1950s/early 1960s.
uno's "legend" here of course, few foods are truly invented.
pack the fat and lean closely into the pie in alternate layers until it is  filled.
english books of the eighteenth century contain many receipts for meat  pies with sweet and sour elements...
the idea may be a bit farfetched, but there is little doubt that gallegos make better meat pies than anyone else, using fillings as varied as the produce of galicia.
the name given to a tart of caramelized apples that is cooked under a lid of pastry and then inverted to be served with the pastry underneath and the fruit on top.
if you bake in tin patties, butter them, and you must put a little crust all over, because of the taking them out: if in china, or glass, no crust but the top one.
now butter and other shortenings  are used, thus rendering the moniker "pork pies" a delicious relic of  times past.
note.--should  herbs be used, any of those named under pork sausages in a previous chapter  will answer; but sage is generally liked.
the nuns of lima had a great  reputation after the sixteenth century, and chocolate owes a great deal to the  convents.
museum of the city of new york new york food museum online exhibit managed by volunteers--they accept e-mail requests chicago-style (deep dish) pizza food historians generally  credit ike sewell and ric riccardo for the "invention" of chicago's  deep-dish style pizza.
because it lacks gobs of cheese congealing on top, it retains its appeal even when cool.
what we do know about it is that virtually any stuffing  goes--from cold cuts and cheese to roasted peppers and other vegetables--and  that it's the ideal do-ahead food to feed a crowd or a single diner, to take  out or eat in, and to build add-on sales.
still, pizza and pizzerias and, later, pizza parlors' were little known outside the large cities of the east until after world war ii, when returning american gi's brought back a taste for the pizzas they had had in naples along with the assumptions that pizza, like spaghetti and meatballs, was a typical italian dish, instead of a regional one."
a sandwich made with pizza dough folded over a variety of ingredients, most often mozzarella and sliced pepperoni.
it wasn't until  american soldiers returned from wwii that pizza became a national phenomenon.
the company has since sold several million frisbees, and mr. morrison has raked in close to $500,000. in royalties.
bake 10 minutes in a hot oven (450 degrees f.).
the crust is rich and sweet--a yeasted dough made with butter and sugar, and rolled nearly flat.
la varenne also writes about this type of paste made into  morsels the size of small eggs.
if you would have your apples looke green, coddle them in faire water, the pile them, & put them into the water againe, & cover them very close.
" ---the medieval kitchen: recipes from france and italy, odile redon, francoise sabban, & silvano serventi, translated by edward schneider [university of chicago press:chicago] 1998 (p. 55-6) "as for pumpkin pie, in particular, in sixteenth- and seventeenth-century england "people of substance" were familiar with a form of pumpkin pie that both followed the medieval tradition of "rich pies of mixed ingredients" and also bore resemblance to the consumption of apple-stuffed pumpkins typically engaged in by people of lesser substance...
close you pye up, and bake it in a gentle oven."
" ---la cuisine creole , second edition [f.f. hansell & bro:new orleans] 1885 (p. 191) about meringue food historians tell us the precursor for meringue was an elizabethan-era dish called"snow".
" ---sauerkraut yankees: pennsylvania dutch foods & foodways, william woys weaver, 2nd edition [stackpole books:mechanicsburg pa] 2002 (p. 57-59) what made it "slippery?" slip engraving was a traditional decorative technique used on earthenware pottery.
[image graphics:paducah ky] (p. 268) [1878] "sweet potato pudding.
else would call hamburgers  the enemy?," judy klemesruds,new york times, march 31, 1971 (p. 38) frozen pizza
"sometimes, you just have to hand it to french culinary genius.
choux paste is different from other types of  pastry because when cooked, it rises and the finished product has a hollow  center.
"besides the food associated with certain occasions there was luxury food which was served whenever it could be obtained and which was intended to delight and impress.
[1685] lists several recipes for poultry pies (chicken, turkey, pheasant etc.).
the provencal version of the pissaladiere is often garnished with two of the region's signature ingredients: black olives and sliced tomatoes, both in minuscule amounts by our standard.
often the semicircular seam is decorated by twisting it at regular intervals.
line a deep pie pan and bake in a slow oven so as to dry out the pastry.
it don't doubt it a bit because in those pre-refrigerator days, fresh milk was a poor keeper.
the plan above detailed will be found the better, because the meat being enveloped entirely in potatoes runs no risk of becoming hard, as it wold do it exposed to the direct heat of the oven.
that's usually a pretty good indicator of a food's sanitary status...our findings were far from reassuring...
whereas the original could be eaten on meatless days, this variant--now known around the world as quiche lorraine--could not.
where did the name come from?
initially, pizza was made by  italians for italians, but thy the late 1930s after the great depression many  americans were eating pizza in italian restaurants and pizzerias on the east  and west coasts...over time, two basic and distinct styles of american pizza  appeared.
"" ---oxford encyclopedia of food and drink in america, andrew f. smith editor
the sauce is cooked separately, cooled and placed on the shell.
"the romans introduced new economic plants.
one explanation for the popularity of empanadas in galicia is that they suit the character of these northern peoples, for the pies hide their contents from public view, just as the gallegos often remian aloof and secretive.
efficient & portable, easily re-heated & ultimately delicious.
chill before filling is added.
the acid juice of the common kind is laregley employed in preparing the beverage known as lemonade...lemons vary very much in size, and the ordinary boxes contain from two hundred and forty to four hundred and twenty lemons each; the brands l and ll being used to designate sizes, single l;'s being the largest.
as dot schuck of key largo puts it: "most folks from up north think key lime should be green."
gather the scraps of dough and form a ball quickly.
in 11 years of using this method i've never had a case of hard brown sugar, even when i've kept the same sugar for a year."
pet-ritz brings the country's best to you.
cheesecake, tarts, pizza & souffle.
yield: about 20 meat pies.
these cheese-based pastes can be traced back to at least the thirteenth century where similar receipts for fritters appear in anonymous andalusian cookbooks...
mr. strause's recipe for lemon chiffon filling] additional bio notes here.
our first effort was a total bactyeria count per gram of pizza.
elizabeth david, writing about the florentine  cooks that catherine medici was said to have brought with her to france in  1533, states, "those cooks...are part of a myth originating in  mid-nineteenth-century france, perhaps in the imagination of of of the popular  hsitorical novelists who flourished at that period, and certainly without  existence in historical fact...
shape the dough, and get it into the  oven while it is warm.
you see it everywhere, although it is most common in the  north, around strasbourg.
the ad reads "new pop tarts drop'em into the toaster or eat'em just as they are.
[oxford university press:oxford] 2003 (p. 117)
calzone are usually associated with naples, where they can also be made with sausage and mozzarella cheese, but are found, famously, throughout southern italy, sometimes deep-fried.
then turn this into 1/2 cup boiling water in the top of double boiler, and stir till dissolved.
hot dog," thomas morrow,chicago daily tribune , august 3, 1954 (p. 18) [1955] "it's new--a new frozen food product, little bo-pizzas are the first miniature pizzas to make their apperance.
in one of the villages, lamotte-buevren, about 24 miles from orleans, the auberge tatin has been owned by the tatin family for almost 70 years.
[note: includes recipes for coffiee chiffon pie, chicolate chiffon, refrigerator walnut pie and strawberry chiffon tarts.]
sprinkle rolling surface with sugar mixture.
every town has its own variation...carol field, author of several  books on italian food, suggests that calzone may have existed in medieval latin  as early as 1170, according to a reference in padua, although the historian  luigi sada, also the author of several apulian cookbooks, suggests a statute  from bisceglie around 1400 as being the first appearance of the word.
in september 1964, just six months after the public unveiling of country  squares, kellogg introduced pop-tarts in several test markets around the  country.
[valparisio in], february 15, 1955 (p. 16) "puncture-free pie crust.
[arnold and  company:philadelphia] 1902 (p. 590-1) related food?
excellent questions!
---the kentucky housewife, lettice bryan, facsimile reprint of 1839 edition stereotyped by shepard & stearns:cincinnati
craig claiborne sums this topic nicely: "turnovers, which are festive and are almost infinate in their  variety, also pinpoint to a degree the migrant influences in america.
sewell was the one in the dark this time.
" ---"turnovers: a dish with an international heritage, craig claiborne,new york times, may 5, 1982 (p. c8
[1936] "hawaiian refregerator pie crust 20 graham crackers, rolled fine 4 tablespoons sugar 5 tablespoons melted butter filling 1 package lemon flavored gelatin 1 3/4 cups boiling water 1 cup canned crushed pineapple and juice 1 1/2 cups cream, whipped stiff 8 graham crackers, rolled fine 1 tablespoon confectioner's sugar combine the ingredients of the crust, blending well.
thin-skinned lemons are the juiciest.
because frisbie pies were sold in new england, we can assume the fad with this name began there.
perhaps this is technically true, but there can be no denying that italy was most certainly the seedbed out of which the concept would flourish to the fullest.
doupble the quantity of dried sage could be suet.
no foolin---no failin' with oronoque orchards frozen pie crusts.
remove from baking sheets and cool on wire racks.
pictures of pop tart boxes from the 1960s & 1970s/courtesy of dan goodsell's imaginary world (scroll down).
in the royal households of france and england, savory tarts were among a chef's most elaborate dishes...
[applewood books:chester ct] (p. 21) [1839] "sweet potato pie.
timbale defining the term "timbale" is a complicated exercise in culinary context.
bake in upper third of oen for 25 to 30 minutes, until quiche has puffed and browned, and a small knife, plunged into custard, comes out clean.
we also know that stromboli can go by different names.
it just brought release."
blending your way to the impossible pie," rose dosti,los angeles times, august 17, 1978 (p. m26) [1979] "impossible reuben pie 8-ounce can sauerkraut 1/2 pound cooked corned beef, diced medium-fine (1 3/4 cups) 4 ounces swiss cheese, chredded medium-fine (1 cup packed) 1 cup milk 3/4 cup biscuit mix 1/3 cup mayonnaise 2 tabplesooons chili sauce 3 large eggs drain sauerkraut, pressing out liquid--there should be 1/2 cup kraut.
another pie--or it may be turned into a whole family of tarts--stands up because someone discovered that lemon juice thickens condensed milk..." ---"refrigerator
a more important difference lay in the choice of paste; in principle, a tart was made of thinly rolled fine rich paste that could not be raised, as coffins were.]
[ecco press:hopwell nj]1998 (p. 72) "...
it's all about business: "the sweet potato is the true storage root of ipomoea batatas, a member of the morning glory family...
cut butter into bits and distribute over the cream.
similar, perhaps to cobbletones.
in a heavy iron skillet jeanne quickly caramelized some butter and sugar, then dribbled the shiny golden syrup over the fruit.
" ---an a-z of food and drink,  john ayto
beat yolks and whites separately.
swanson and morton pioneered the frozen pie market; concentrating savory selections [chicken, turkey, beef].
the pure juice of the lemon is extremely efficacious in attacks of acute rheumatism.
about lemon meringue pie in america
as far as taste  goes, we think most would do well to buy a freshly cooked pizza at a pizza  parlor they know to be good and freeze it themselves..." ---"frozen pizza,"consumer reports, june 1972 (p. 364-367) [1976] "coming to chicago [and other markets] shortly as  a part of a national roll-out is stouffer's french bread pizza, a frozen  prdouct in test in four markets including indianapolis, through a good part of  1975.
[1888] the cargo of 2,400 boxes of oranges and 5,500 boxes of lemons that the steamer iniziativa brought from messina was sold yesterday by brown & seccomb of 25 state street.
when melted, mix it up into a stiff paste, and put it before the fire with a cloth over it until ready to make up; chop the pork into small pieces, season it with white pepper, salt, and powdered sage; divide the paste into rather small pieces, raise it in a round or oval form, fill with the meat, and bake in a brick oven.
grate the meat and add to a saucepan with 1 1/2 cups sugar.
coffee chiffon, and chiffons glorified with crushed pineapple or fresh spring strawberries shiver with glee as they are turned into crisp, baked shells and slid into the refrigerator to be "cold-baked" to a cut-able firmness.
now, 33 years later, uno, together with its nearby sister, pizzeria due, seres 2,500 pizzas on a big day...
pound the spices, allowing a smaller proportion of mace than of nutmeg and cinnamon.
it's a story i've been unable to substantiate.
soft or underbeaten egg whites will cause the pie to be soft and runny, and the definition of 'dry stiff' in this case means beating the egg whites beyond any stiffness that you would consider using for a meringue.
the idea may be a bit farfetched, but there is little doubt that  gallegos make better meat pies than anyone else, using fillings as varied as  the produce of galicia.
heat over how heat until liquids are warm.
knox unflavored gelatine provides a variety of handsome and delectable dishes.
stew and strain the apples, add cinnamon, rose-water, wine and sugar to your taste, lay in paste, no. 3.
" ---american century cookbook: the most popular recipes of the 20th century, jean anderson [clarkson potter:new york] 1997 (p. 364) [1922]what about chiffon cake?
a thin-crust pizza, commonly called "east coast" or "new york" style, is made with just a few toppings like pizza made in naples...
" ---the female instructor: young woman's guide to domestic happiness
art of cookery made plain and easy, hannah glasse, facsimile reprint 1747 edition
i think what you have here is a pretty spontaneous response to a natural opportunity...
pizza also  became the hottest restaurant item of the 1950s because, unlike most pastas, it  was not particularly affected by delays between cooking and eating.
[prospect books:devon] 2000 (p. 212-3) slippery pot pie (pennsylvania dutch/maryland) "the pennsylvania dutch know this more commonly as hinkelboi, not 'chicken in a blanket,' the literal sense of the original german.
calzones are more apt to take the form of individual pizza-dough  turnovers.
popular american recipes featuring lemons include: lemon meringue pie, lemon bars & lemonade.
salt 1 1/2 cups lard or solid shortening 1 egg, well beaten 1 tbsp.
cornstarch pinch of salt 2 lemons, grated zest and juice whipped cream or fluffy icing ...
beyond those slivers of guidance, however, lasyone is  silent...
eat what you are: people, culture and food traditions, thelma barer-stein
two 1940 cookbooks featured a great variety of chiffon pies:women's home companion cook book (with ninteen) and the good housekeeping cook book (with thirteen).
it is sometimes called the chinese dwarf lemon because it does not grow as large as the ordinary lemon tree.
where does "cottage pie" fit in?
in new york there was no buffalo-milk mozzarella, so cows's milk mozzarella was used; oregeno, a staple southern italian herb, was replaced in america by sweet marjoram; and american tomatoes, flour, even water, were different.
escoffier [1903] contains a recipe for creme a saint-honore (#4345), but not (at least that we can find) gateau saint honore.
certainly there is ample evidence.
the columbian exchange [16th century] flooded the "old world" with "new world" foods.
serve it with a salad, hot french bread, and a cold white wine; follow it with fruit, and you have a perfect lunch or supper menu.
unless the pastry walls are thick, the juice burst out and spoil its appearance...
[crown:new york] 1988 (p. 777-8) "the bakers of france made cakes too until one day in 1440 when a specialist corporation, the corporation of pastrycooks, deprived them of the right to do so.
" "elephant ears 1 loaf frozen white (or sweet) bread dough, thawed 3/4 cup sugar 1 tablespoons brown sugar 2 teasoons cinnamon 3 tablespoons butter or margarine, melted let dough rise untildoubled in size.
there is a big difference between southern california and northern california lemons.
"mabel brotzman asked for help in finding a lost recipe for a key lime pie that can be frozen for serving later.
"at first," sewell said, "we had to cut it into little slivers and give it away to people who were drinking at the bar."
in america eats, written in the 1930s for the wpa illinois writers project but not published until 1992, nelson algren noted that as winter wore on midwestern setters' systems craved fruit and tart flavors: to satisfy their craving, ingenious housewives invented the vinegar pie...when baked in a pie tin, the resulting product was much relished and remained a favorite springtime dessert until young orchards coming into bearing provided real fruit pies to take its place.'
the sauce is cooked separately, cooled and placed on the  shell.
letters poured in from nebraska to new hampshire, telling us that funnel cake and elephant ears are totally different, and depending on who was writing, that elephant ears aren't deep-fat fried anyway; they are baked.
the recipe in this article is identical to the once cited above.]
by the time we got to new hampshire, elephant ears had turned into the following.
our tart and turn-over shop.
these usually contained egg custard and fruits of various kinds, which could be used to provide the brillant colours of which medieval cooks were fond: red, white, and pale green from fruits; strong green from spinach, which was used in sweet tarts; yellow from egg, with extra colour from saffron; and black from dark-coloured dried fruits.
and in place of lady fingers or sliced sponge cake or angel food, they are using all sorts of sweetened wafers such as graham crackers, chocolate or vanilla wafers, gingersnaps.
the beating of egg whites was not altogether easy before the fork came into common use late in the seventeenth century...
"saint honore, a gateau consisting of a layer of shortcrust pastry (basic pie dough) or puff pastry on top of which is arranged a crown of choux pastry, which is itself garnished with small choux glazed with caramel.
*if salted nuts are used omit salt in recipe.
kellogg had won the toaster-pastry game in the first inning.
[east sussex:southover press} 2001 (p. 199-200) [note: the word pumpkin is thought to derive from the old french word pompion, which in turn is derived from the greek pepon, meaning melon.
what were the first pop tart flavors?
generally, the difference between a tart and a pie is the former does not contain a top crust.
the ran neck and neck in the amount of sauce.
each package contains  three individual portions.
---cassell's  dictionary of cookery with numerous illustrations [cassell, petter, galpin  & co.:london] 1875 (p. 610) "pork pies, pastry for.--put a quarter of a pound of finely-shred  beef suet--or five ounces of lard, or a quarter of a pound of mutton suet--and  an ounce of fresh butter into a saucepan with half a pint of boiling water and  a pinch of salt.
by 1956 it had shunted aside hot dogs  as the most popular item in both.
in al-masudi's (died c. 956) meadows of gold, there are foods described that sound like early sanbusak.
it just won't." ---refrigerator pies are easy; chiffon variety recipe given," sally saver,atlanta constitution, june 27, 1939 (p. 14)
the earliest printed evidence we find for pear pie in an english cookbook is from 1615.
be careful  that the walls are equlally thick in every part.
the russian word for pie, together with  its diminutive pirozhki (plural), some from the word pir (meaning  feast)...
one of riccardo's  bartenders, a chap named raoul, offered to cook up a fine mexican meal.
one has it that way back in 1837 a yale man named frisbee sailed a church collection plate 200 feet across the campus in protest against compulsory chapel.
the name comes from various indian words (algonquian paccan, cree pakan, and others) and was first mentioned in print in 1773.
mix the chocolate crumbs, sugar and butter.
this is to be a gustatory grapple, mr. decker said, with the pizza pie on the one side, and the hot dog, weiner or tepid puppy, on the other.
these recipes were introduced to america by european settlers from several nations.
next place in the cake machine 1 pint of egg whites and 1/2 pound of sugar and beat dry stiff.
in a flood of tears, marie scooped up the pan from the floor and rushed it back to the kitchen.
[in the 18th century] to today's meaning...today, the terms 'cream bun or puff', 'profiterole' and 'choux' seems to have settled down; the ambiguity no longer an issue.
" --- you eat what you are: people, culture and food traditions, thelma barer-stein
the history of galician empanadas
if not for immediate use, place the meringue in a small basin and keep in a cool place covered with a round of paper.
if fresh, about half a teaspoonful  would be enough to flavour the above for most people.
---american cookery , amelia simmons, facsimile reprint of the second edition printed in albany, 1796, with an introduction by karen hess [applewood books:bedford ma] 1996 (p. 28)
this explains why some folks call this recipe jell-o pie.
la varenne also writes about this type of paste made into morsels the size of small eggs.
crisco is sometimes cited as an ingredient.
and when caked with sugar, the delicate balance is lost and the pastry becomes one-dimensional.
---encyclopedia of american food and drink, john f. mariani [lebhar-friedman:new york] 1999 (p. 244) "the city's selection of restaurants was enriched by the arrival of immigrants during the late nineteenth century.
a. a light mixture of stiffly beaten egg whites and sugar, baked until crisp; a shell or other item of confectionery made of this mixture, typically decorated or filled with whipped cream.
filling: 1 envelope gelatin 1/2 cup sugar 1/8 teaspoon salt 1/2 cup cold water 3 eggs, separated 1/4 cup green creme de menthe 2 tablespoons cognac or creme de cacao 1 cup heavy cream, whipped.
ike sewell, along with partner ric riccardo sr., is credited with inventing deep dish pizza in 1943, but mrs. sewell also helped concoct the pizza that put chicago on the map, according to chicago blackhawks owner bill wirtz, a family friend.
in fact, the pizzas of france and italy, despite having different tendencies in herbs and cheese, have more in common with each other than they do with most of those produced here...
the term is first recorded at the end of the eighteenth century: an old woman preparing her turnovers, commonly called apple-pies' (sporting magazine, 1798).
word mark pop-tarts goods and services ic 030.
timbales can be savory or sweet and served at almost any course.
the yam ceremonies performed in these cultures are similar to agricultural rites surrounding numerous other crops throughout the world..." ---nectar and ambrosia: an encyclopedia of food in world mythology, tamra andrews [abc-clio:santa barbara] 2000 (p. 250)
sprinkle chopped pecans on top, bake pie in a moderate oven until well set when slightly shaken.
add beaten egg yolk to molasses.
it has both top and bottom crust.]
one hazards a guess that  it originated independently of queen catherine's popelin, or that it derived  from an earlier common source...
this is the legend: "choux pastry is said to have been invented in 1540 by popelini, catherine de' medici's chef, but the pastrycook's art only truly began to develop in the 17th century and greatest innovator at the beginning of the 19th century was indubitably [antonin] careme..." ---larousse gastronomique, jenifer harvey lang, editor
stromboli is a resort island off the coast of sicily that features an active smoldering volcano.
crowen's american lady's cook book, mrs. t. j. crowen [dick & fitzgerald:new york] 1847 (p. 256) [note:
the dealers in this crop feel sure that nothing but prolonged cool weather can diminish the present price of the fruit." ---"lemons advance in price,"new york times, june 21, 1895 (p. 2) [1928] our survey of historic newspapers confirms lemons were sold by the dozen in 1928.
---history of food , maguelonne toussaint-samat [barnes & noble:new york] 1992 (pages 243-244) "profiteroles are small round choux-pastry buns with a filling.
so, despite their status  as a snack food, the pizzas we checked fulfill many of the nutritional  requirements of a main dish...pizza's balanced protein-calorie relationship,  uncommon in a snack food, might well promote the use of pizza as a meat  substitute in your meal now and then...
about early pumpkin cookery recipes for stewed pumpkins tempered with sugar, spices and cream wrapped in pastry trace their roots to medieval cuisine.
"i then repack it in an airtight tupperware container.
these moulds are sometimes embellished...their sides are either goffered or decorated with motifs or [sic] different kinds.
for the dough: 200 grams (7 ounces) of flour; 100 grams (3 « ounces, 7 tablespoons) of butter; 3/4 deciliter ( 2 2/1 fluid ounces, scant 1/3 cup) of water; a pinch of salt.
by any name, though, americans took to the easy recipe that is adaptable for making both sweet dessert pies and savory meat, vegetable and cheese pies.
piecrust dough for 9-inch pie combine flour, sugar, spices, and salt with the shortening.
there is some conjecture that perhaps antonin careme (1784-1833), a famous pastry chef for french royalty might have created something akin to eclairs.
take one pound of puff pastes; cut it into as many pieces as you require pasties; roll out in a circular form, and put the fruit on one half, turn the other half over on the fruit, and pinch the edge, which should first be wetted with white of egg.
as onebon appetit reader commented, while inquiring after the recipe for the moussaka quiche...served at the cottage crest in massachusetts, "there seems to be no end to culinary imagination when it comes to making quiches."...
recipes suggest this  item evolved from themincemeat/mince pies tradition.
the pink is sometimes made by adding a little carmine diluted in some of the apareil, but the white ones are preferable; if a clean sheet of paper is put into a small stock-pot, and the meringues also put therein, and well covered, they will keep for one or two months as good and crisp as the first day: on which account, if you have a vacancy for one dish, which is wanted in haste, it will be found very advantageous to have them made beforehand." --- the french cook, louis eustache ude, photoreprint of 1828 edition published by carey, lean and carey:philadelphia
[1950] "...leo giuffre has introduced his ready-to-cook  pizzas in... the last two weeks.
the above are ms. hess' commentaries.]
when the crust was golden brown, they carried the pie in its pan to the table.
the refined french name for these french friters  is 'beignets souffles'...
what we do know about it is that virtually any stuffing goes--from cold cuts and cheese to roasted peppers and other vegetables--and that it's the ideal do-ahead food to feed a crowd or a single diner, to take out or eat in, and to build add-on sales.
in order to become a master pastry maker in le mans in the early sixteenth century, one had to be able to use sugar loaves to make hypocras, a sweet, spiced wine used as an aperitif and after-dinner drink.
alas, there are not records to prove it.
brder or sprinkle with reserved crumb mixture and freeze 4 to 6 hours.
"the first american cookbook recipe for pizza appeared in specialita culinarie italiane, 137 tested recipes of famous italian foods,  a fund-raising cookbook published in boston in 1936.
subsequent usa period ads do not describe frozen pie crusts.
let cool, stirring often.
for a very cheap one, half a pound of meat will do for two pounds of potatoes.
and at a german bakery, i once requested a palmier and received nothing more than a polite, though perplexed, stare.
we find several period european/middle eastern recipes combining fruit, meat and cheese similarly spiced and presented.
" ---"pizza: some topping facts,  "press association november 11, 2002 our survey of articles published in the new york times (proquest  database) uncovered an advertisement for this franchise opportunity "fresh  pizza trucks, "the pizzeria on wheels" (nyt, june 5, 1960, p.  f26).
the gravy should be made from the bones  and any skinny and gristly parts of the meat, seasoned as required, and  strenghthened with gelatine or meat of a gelatinous sort; the liquor form  boiled pork should be used in place of water at the start, should any be handy;  supposing, for instance, the feet and ears of a pig to have been boiled, there  is in the liquor a good foundation for the gravy of the pie.
estelle woods wilcox about cobbler.
when it is well seasoned with milk and a little butter, stove or soak your bread, and serve with pepper if you will."
[galahad books:new york] 1979 (p. 393) [note:
today there are several variations on this culinary theme.
culinarily the word timbale means a preparation of an kind cooked or served in a pie crust.
after the  experience, you will know why.
" ---larousse gastronomique, prosper montagne
bake twenty to thirty minutes, or till brown and well pugged.
alsace is french, of course, but the food, language  and appearance are quite german in character.
---"natchitoches meat pie  is a spicy taste of history," john demers, upi,hutchinson news
chiffon pie is first mentioned in american print in 1929 as a "chiffon pumpkin pie," in thebeverly hills women's club's fashions in food.
most are creative iterations of existing dishes.
ingredients, method, purpose, and presentation are period and place dependent.
most empanadas contain lots of onion and green or red  pepper, in combination with meat or fish.
there are several methods used by the natives for catching grasshoppers.
according to the records of the u.s. patent & trademark office, pop  tarts (a kellogg's trademark) were introduced to the american public july 14,  1964:
middlebury officials contend that a group of delta upsilon fraternity brothers tumbled into the game while traveling to a fraternity convention in nebraska 50
no medieval cookery books give detailed instructions on how to make pastry; they assume the necessary knowledge...not all medieval pastry was coarse.
on the north american mainland sweet potatoes had long been grown by the indians in louisiana, where de soto found them in 1540, and as far north as georgia.
if made small, about 11/2 hour.
"dear readers: we have had great fun over the past month of so reading the letters that have poured in about elephant ears and funnel cake.
[laurel publishing company:melrose ma] 1911 (p. 365) [1930] "sweet potato custard boil, peel, and mash through a sieve sweet potatoes, adding a little milk or water to make them press through easily.
a type of savoury cake or dumpling, (perh.) baked in  ashes.
[1753] "to make orange or lemon tarts.
deep dish, or "chicago style," pizza originated at pizzeria uno...in 1943...
this can be either savoury or sweet, but by far the commonest manifestation of the profiterole is with a cream filling and a covering of chocolate sauce, and piled in large quanitities, in the more ambitious type of restaurant, into a sort of pyramid.
" ---"new  business,"new york times, october 7, 1954 (p. 35) [1954] "frozen pizza is available in many groceries,  ready to eat after heating in the kitchen oven.
the confusion started with potato, from haitian batata (oed), came to be applied no only to sweet potatoes but also to papas, an inca name for white potato, thus endlessly entangling their identities in early chronicles.
" ---larousse gastronomique, completely revised and updated [clarkson potter] 2001 p. 832) "palmiers are small sweet biscuits made from puff pastry and shaped somewhat like butterflies.
the quintessential pirog in russian  culture...were round, but molokhovets (elena molokhovets as the author of an  important 1861 russian cookbook titled "a gift fo young housewives")  preferred rectangular ones.
the first reference to the term in english comes in the 1706 edition of edward phillips'snew world of english words: petits choux, a sort of paste for garnishing, made of fat cheese, flour, eggs, salt, etc., bak'd in a pye-pan, and ic'd over with fine sugar.'
place the bacon on top, pressing lightly on it so that the pieces stick to the bottom and will not float to the surface when the custard is poured into it.
size of the tree may be an advantage in most gardens since it will only reach 8 ft. in height in 20 years, while producting an abundance of fragrant flowers and yellow-orange fruit.
french palmiers, afghanelephant ears spanish sopaipillas, & native american fry bread descend from these traditions.
season up with a few grains of salt and lemon zest and juice.
he says the method applies also to other edibles that combine layers of dough with liquid or moist filing, such as upside-down cakes, puddings and dumplings.
"it needs to be made with love, and sometimes we don't have the love," explains feldeisen...patisserie poupon ruth poupon's rendition of a palmier defines daintiness.
" "chicken pie in a pot.
it is practically foolproof, and you can invent your own combinations.
product introduction and marketing strategy our research  confirms kellogg's was not the first to bring a toaster pastry to market.
and the topping is butter and sugar; no more.
" ---"one great dish," roy andres de groot,washington post, october 14, 1979 (p. k1) coincidentally?
thus in these timbales-legumiers are served scrambled eggs, food in sauce, purees, custards and othe prepartions, all to some extent liquid.
the southern fruits were very expensive at that time...
that recipe calls for stirring in 1 to 2 drops of green food coloring if desired.
do not allow to stand.
[1955] "pillsbury's frozen pie crust, 2 pkgs., 35 cents.
[note: records of the u.s. patent & trademark office indicate this product was introduced to the american public october 4, 1973.
failing to understand the question aright, the africans replied that is was something to eat', "nyami" in guinea.
or cut the paste into the form of a diamond, lay on the fruit, and fold over the paste, so as to give it a triangular shape."
this is not an advantage to be scoffed at;  microwave a pop-tart and it resembles nuclear waste.
kellogg's marketing strategy of claiming nutrition for pop-tarts is  a part of the larger, historic strategy to market pop-tarts to adults as well  as children.
louis xi's favourite marzipan turnovers were made with flaky pastry...
gather the scraps of dough  and form a ball quickly.
add by degrees the liquor, rose-water and spice.
today this fine pie is considered by some to be a cornerstone of "soul food." "africans in the south knew the yam...from their homeland and the two tubers have become virtually interchangeable in southern cooking.
crush or grind enough of them to make a thick layer of crumbs in the bottom of the pie plate.
" ---"powches, puffs and profiteroles: early choux paste receipts," david potter,petits propos culinaires 73
[1941] "iced meringue 10 egg whites, 1 lb granulated or powdered sugar.
" ---the good housewife's jewel, thomas dawson, with an introduction by maggie black [southover press:east sussex] 1996 (p. 135) "sweet potato...
good housekeeping institute.
their apple varieties included types for good keeping, and villa owers stored them spread out in rows in a dry, well-ventilated loft...
my family was sharecroppers,' said lasyone, who  started lasyone's meat pie kitchen with a one-eyed gas stove and a single iron  pot.
none of the ingredients are name-brand.
" artichock bottoms, or the tops of boild sparagus...
by the late 1960s, american were consuming  two billion pizzas annually.
nyc restaurants & menus.
"pirog day"...the third day after a marriage, was traditionally the time when the young bride offered guests a selection of pirogs and pirozhki.
[prospect books:devon] 2003 (p.  194-5) selected 19th century british recipes [1861] "pork pies (warwickshire recipe).
the potter took note and slip-decorated the pie plates.
these spicy turnover were  once referred to as hot-ta-meat pies, but now they're simply called  natchitoches meat pies.
[prospect books:devon] 2003 (p. 194-5) selected 19th century british recipes [1861] "pork pies (warwickshire recipe).
that recipe, for  neapolitan pie orpizza alla napolitana, directed that pizza dough be  hand-stretched until it was one-quarter-inch-thick.
the names given to the two products were one more indication of kellogg's superior marketing savvy.
the make the crust as follows: pare and boil the potatoes, then mash them, add the cream, the remainder of the butter, salt and pepper, beat until light.
'travel agencies call us from all over the united states...
those who possess moulds  sometimes prefer a pork pie raisied by hand, and baked out of a mould, as the  consider the flaour is better.
bake in a moderately hot oven of 375 degrees until custard is set and brown on top, about 35 to 40 minutes.
so today i am persenting one of those fluffy-as-a-cloud chiffon pies which looks ok, so hard to make, but actually requires no cooking at all!
take the palmier (palm-yay).
" --- larousse gastronomique, completely revised and updated [clarkson potter:new york] (p. 1016)
a french [dish]...most prominent in lorraine...
pour egg mixture over nuts.
minced mutton and potato recipes begin showing up in the 18th century.
add 3 teaspoon sugar and 1/2 teaspoon baking powder beating constantly.
the practice of making small, stuffed breads and pastries dates back to ancient times.
in s. and c. america and the southwest of the usa a similarly  wide range of fillings are used.
[routledge:london] 1996 (p. 157) "it has been argued that the italians did not "invent" pizza.
these portable pies were introduced to the "new world" by spanish explorers and missionaries.
the elizabethans favored minced pies.
she divides the batch into pats of about one pound each and then subdivides these into smaller bits, rolling them by hand to sheet form.
nabisco's toastettes, which debuted in 1967, have survived and were recently repositioned, according to a nabisco spokesman, meaning they now come eight to a box and can be microwaved.
renaissance diners preferred similar compostions made with fine white sugar.
ask your librarian  to help you findmedieval arab cookery, maxime rodinson, a. j. arberry  & charles perry [prospect books:2001] cream puffs & eclairs choux a la creme, profiteroles and cream puffs are said to have originated  in renaissance france and italy.
marshmallows were promoted as a moden whipped cream substitute.
sewell was the one in the dark this  time.
j. pierce says she uses a wide-mouth glass jar to store her brown and confectioners' sugars and never is faced with hardness or too much moisture.
with huge revenue from its cereals at its disposal, kellogg was sponsoring a whole zoo of kids' shows, includng yogi bear, woody woodpecker, huckleberry hound, atom ant, bugs bunny, mighty mouse and secret squirrel.
the practice of making small, stuffed breads and pastries dates back to  ancient times.
knead well to a stiff paste, and add a little more warm water if required.
potatoes did not appeal to the british palate until the 18th century.
the sides of a rectangle of puff pastry are folded into the center, then folded over to make four layers, and cut across the width into thin strips.
related foods? cheesecake & quiche.
french  profiterole is attested slightly earlier in its literal sense ‘small  profit’: 1542.] .
apples were sliced into two or three pieces with a redd or bone knife (since metal stained the fruit), and were put to lie in the sun."
[note: potage is akin to soup] "potage of pumpkin with milk.
south philadelphia is  generally regarded as the american epicenter for this delcious dish.
just before baking, pour cream mixture into the shell, filling to within 1/8 inch of the top.
" ---"turnovers: a dish with  an international heritage, craig claiborne,new york times, may 5, 1982  (p. c8
a meringue may be added, if liked, but very careful baking is necessary.
cut the meat into pieces the size of a small nut, and keep the meat and fat separate.
[prospect books:devon] 2000 (p. 224) [note: according to the glossary in the back of this book, a "froise" was like a pancake or omelette.]
walter fred morrison.
1 teaspoonful of nutmeg.
but 95 percent will take the meat pie lunch and the majority are well pleased with it.'
often the semicircular seam is decorated by twisting it  at regular intervals.
a condiment originating from the nice region, made of anchovy puree flavored with cloves, thyme, bay leaf and pepper and mixed with olive oil.
pop-tarts quickly joined the cast of sugared cereals being hawked between cartoons.
eveyln tellus us that these fritters are of french origin, and this may well be so.
barbara bliss sent her boyfriend dave's incredibly easy recipe, which is similar to many we received.
---"the kitchen hot line," evelyn larson,winnipeg free press [canada], january 8, 1977 (p. 46)
first they want to see one...they of course they still don't know anything.
prepare the pastry, and let stand, covered, while  preparing the filling.
[1747] "potato-cakes.
during  the last two years alone, mr. emil de salvi, who purveys frozen pizzas, has  blanketed the country with 5 million pizza pies.
it reaches a height of eight feet and has luxuriant foliage, with big fragrant blooms which are even more highly perfumed than those of the orange.
in italy there were calzones, in england there were  cornish pasties and so on.
about pecans pecans are a "new world" food.
refusing to go to the likes of a pizzeria, the queen ordered in.
the company liked the name and began selling frisbees under a registered trademark.
the meat should be packed in firmly, and the lid  put on after the inner edges have been egged over; the edges should be crimped  with the paste nippers (opage 741), and leaves put round the side and on the  lid; make a hole or two, and put a centre ornament of paste or not, as  preferred.
cut in lard until particles are the size of small peas.
the filling is of fresh pork without other major  ingredients, seasoned with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of herbs,  especially sage.
they dine out at stephenson's apple farm restaurant, a sprawling, countrified place just over the kansas city line...
in this regional crossroads,  there are many variations, based largely on the background of the baker.
topped with anything you choose to mix, match or even scramble, these make-ahead finger foods are fun.
and in the royal households of france and england, savory tarts were often among the most elaborate of dishes in a chef's repertoire, especially during the elizabethan era, when the crusts would be decorated with heraldic devices, flowers, and curlicues of painstaking skill.
hot or cold, on-the-go breakfast or late night snack, pop tarts were perfect.
..the first recipe for something recognizable as puff pastry is in dawson
the most famous in town are served at a small restaurant called lasyones.
[1927] "quiche lorraine
we evaluate 17 brands of cheese pizza, 14  of sausage, seven of pepperoni and three topped with hamburger.
boil spanish potatoes cut in pieces, candied citron, candied orange, and lemon-peel, and three or four large blades of mace; put butter on the top, close up your pye, and bake it.
the name suggests they were first made in france, but we find no evidence confirming this.
our research indicates the first pizzas may have cost 5  cents: "nov. 10, 2005, marks our 100th anniversary.
[1946] "quiche lorraine tart pastry...for 8 to 10-inch pan 6 slices bacon, not too thin 6 ozs.
" ---"pot pies," john mariani & gail bellamy,restaurant hospitality, april 1998 (p. 80) about chicken pot pie primary evidence suggests recipes for chicken pot pie (in concept, but not name) were known in england as far back as the middle ages.
portable pies (a random global history): italian calzones, spanish empanadas, louisiana natchitoches, cornish pasties, polish-russian pierogi, kellogg's pop tarts, middle-eastern/indian sanbusaq (aka samosa), italian-american stromboli & english turnovers.
as soon as the top gets a substance, take them from the paper, stick two together, and put them into the hot closet to dry.
brush with remaining butter and sprinkle with 2 tablespoons of sugar mixture.
[oxford university press:new york] 2004, volume 2 (p. 520) sweet potatoes in europe related foods?
the principal importations into this country are from sicily (messina lemons) and from valencia.
vinegar 1/2 cup cold water blend flour, sugar and salt.
"the sweet potato (ipomoea batatas, not remotely related to either the white potato or true yam) is native to tropical america and is mentioned in 1494 as growing in hispaniola by chanca, physician to the fleet of columbus,
when meringue is used as a topping, cooking of the mixture is stopped before it is completely crisp: cf.
grate the rind and express the juice of three lemons; rub together a cup and a half of powdered sugar and three tablespoonfuls of butter; beat up the yolks of four eggs, and add to the butter and sugar, lastly the lemon; bake on a rich puff paste without an upper crust.
people  were making and selling meat pies around natchitoches when he took his first  steps off the farm nearly half a century ago.
ingredients.for the crust, 5 lbs.
by the time [eliza] smith was writing, they had a long an  honourable past, and were thus less susceptible to foreign influences than the  made dishes at which the french were held to excel.
art of cookery made plain & easy, hannah glasse, facsimile 1747 edition
a neapolitan  pizzaiuolo might be startled by pizza in the united states...at a "pizza  bar" in a large manhattan department store--where thousands are absorbed  weekly by hungry shoppers--three kinds are for sale: plain pizza (a pie);  pizzaret (a muffin), and a best-seller called the pizza-bagel, created, after  some protest, by a turncoat pizzaiuolo from florida...
by the middle of the 19th century the word pizza  had become common parlance for the food item..." ---dictionary of  italian food and drink, john mariani [broadway books:new york] 1998 (p.  196-199) note this book also has much more information on the the  history of pizza.
bake at 425 degrees f. for 10 minutes.
however, the upside down' tart, made of apples or pears, is an ancient specialty of sologne and is found throughout orleanais.
pile lightly in baked pie shell, chill and serve..--mrs.
i'm selling everything  for 5 cents," says brescio [manager of lombardi's].
syrup/shoofly pie & sugar/chess pie.
line the sides of the plate with wafers broken into halves (round side out) with more crumbs between the wafers.
the entertainment weeklyvariety, going  gastronomic the other wednesday, reported that the "extent to which the  pizza pies are replacing hot dogs at drive-ins was demonstrated at the  concession trade show at allied states ass'n convention which featured more  pizza-making machines than frankfurter heaters."
"a typical elizabethan recipe ran:
add milk to beaten eggs; stir in melted butter and coconut.
so, despite their status as a snack food, the pizzas we checked fulfill many of the nutritional requirements of a main dish...pizza's balanced protein-calorie relationship, uncommon in a snack food, might well promote the use of pizza as a meat substitute in your meal now and then...
it was regarded as an ideal family  food, equally acceptable to all ages and both sexes.
the word derives from the cocktail that bears the name grasshopper, it is made with those ingredients, which are shaken with ice and strained.
after world war ii, the travels of the flying pie tins became easier to document, said daniel roddick of the wham-o manufacturing company in san gabriel, calif., which makes the modern plastic frisbee.
this recipe is included in the chapter: hors-d'oeuvre.
if no, then read this chapter carefully, because herein lies the original chiffon pie recipes.
with this bun shape--choux being french for cabbage--we can see (literally) the  reason for the name of the paste.
the mild citric acid removes the soap curd that attaches itself to the hair after washing...[lemons] make an excellent dentifrice to use on sore and bleeding gums.
what exactly is meringue and who is credited for the discovery?
the last steamy gasp of the traditional pot pie may well have been the arrival of the frozen pot pie in supermarkets of the early 1950s, which made the idea of making one at home or in a restaurant obsolete, despite the lack of fresh flavor...
add the dissolved gelatine and cool the mixture.
if the pie is to be baked in a mould, lay a piece of the proper shape in the bottom.
by its position, i would say hot, like the chicken pie before it, and the devonshire squab pie that follows.
according to lasyone, the meat pies are tasty--even to strangers from boston, spokane or sault ste.
now add flour enough to make a soft dough--about one cupful.
the empanada festival is one of this region's major annual events.
these dishes are listed by various names.
the most effective is the net...
it was not an acutal recipe title.
they were first introduced to europe in 1520 by the spanish.
there are fresh pizza,  warm-over pizza, refrigerated pizza, warm-over pizza and frozen pizza, selling  everywhere from sidearm joints to pizza palaces.
[charles scribner's sons:new york] 1878 (p. 164) [1884] "sweet potatoes may be baked or boiled, the are better baked.
a wonderful breakfast treat- grand for lunch or snacks too.
stromboli how old is stromboli & where did it originate?
while many mediterranean cultures and regions of italy have long had their versions of flatbreads...the baked flatbread most people now think of as pizza originated in naples, and was a favorite snack of occupying spanish soldiers at the taverna cerriglio in the 17th century.
first introduced commercially about a dozen years ago by wham-o manufacturing co., frisbees until recently were regarded primarily as novelties for children.
"meringue...an airy, crisp confection of beaten egg white and sugar.
flaky pastry fruit-filled turnovers appeared in the early 19th century.
[sutton publishing:gloucestershire] 1997 (p. 11) about pear tarts baked pears (in syrup/wine/spices) were recorded in anient roman texts.
put all your crumbs of meat into the dinner-pot.
[ie foccacia]...the word pizza  itself was used as early as the year 997 ad in gaeta, a port between naples and  rome...
the are decidedly un-french.
add the meat pies, four to six at a time without crowding.
its native habitat is the central southern region of the usa.
it is generally agreed upon by botanists that certain species of yams were first protected and later domesticated in the tropical rainforest zone of western africa..."
[thomas kelly:london] 1817 (p. 452) cape breton pork pie food historians tell us traditional  europeanpork pies date to medieval times.
--- you eat what you are: people, culture and food traditions, thelma  barer-stein [firefly books:buffalo] 1999 (p. 373) "pirogs and pates...pirogs (filled pastries) have always been  essential for russian festivities.
[note: this book also instructs the reader to refer to recipes for fruit pasties.]
and today he sells nearly 160,00  of the delicacies every hear. '
oranges came later, in medieval times.
beat egg whites and fold in sugar.
while many  mediterranean cultures and regions of italy have long had their versions of  flatbreads...the baked flatbread most people now think of as pizza originated  in naples, and was a favorite snack of occupying spanish soldiers at the  taverna cerriglio in the 17th century.
for the filling, drain the juice from the coconut and reserve.
it is a specialty of the alsace-lorraine region, which has been bandied between france and germany over the centuries, and the term quiche itself is a french verison of kuche, a word from the german dialect of lorraine...
it is quite likely the original cape breton pork pies employed lard from these animals.
when mixture begins to thicken, fold in cream which has been whipped stiff.
according to the food historians, their acid flavor was appreciated and incorporated into many dishes.
[1902] "apple turnover put one pint of flour into a bowl; add half a teaspoonful of salt, two level teaspoonfuls of baking powder; mix thoroughly, then rub into the mixture one tablespoonful of butter, and add sufficient milk to make a soft dough.
" ---cambridge world history of food, kenneth f. kiple & kriemhild conee ornelas, [cambridge university press:cambridge] 2000 volume 1 (p. 704) lemons, fruits of warm climates/morton lemons in 19th century america "legend has it that columbus brought lemon seeds to florida, and spanish friars grew the fruit in california, where it flourished in the middle of the nineteenth century--especially in eureka (possibly first cultivated in california or brought from sicily)...
to the yolks and 2 tablespoonfuls of lemon juice and a grated rind of 2 lemons, a pinch of salt and 1/2 cupful of sugar.
" ---the female instructor: young woman's  guide to domestic happiness
food does not  respected man-made political boundaries.
line a 9-inch pie pan.
if it is true that there was a parallel trend in both countries towards separating savory from sweet, it is not surprising that the english pies should have followed the general movement, but it is noticeable that they did so very much more slowly than made dishes.
elbert cole, a retired chemist living in palo alto, calif., said he and another fraternity brother found a pie tin in a nebraska cornfield and tossed it to each other, yelling 'frisbie.' 'people have been throwing pie pans forever, but that's how it got to be called frisbie.'
combine egg, vinegar and water.
---encyclopedia of american food  and drink, john f. mariani [lebhar-friedman:new york] 1999 (p. 244) "the city's selection of restaurants was enriched by the arrival of  immigrants during the late nineteenth century.
the doughs take many different forms,  from puff pastry to those made with cornmeal.
you make bake your potatoes, or slice them, and cooke them with the meat."
to their anonymous early twentieth-century inventor their shape evidently suggested more the topknot of leaves on a palm, for french palmier means literally 'palm tree'.
for the filling, dissolve the gelatin mixture in the boiling water, then add the pineapple, which--if fresh--must be scalded.
put on custard and brown.--eva navarro (mrs. dan navarro).
sweet potatoes were introduced to west africa soon thereafter.
but it's one of the little things that chefs do for their clientele.
roll out dough onto a floured board and knead until not sticky but soft.
(foods america gave the world, a. hyatt verrill, page 28).
this book also offers recipes for tourte/tarts of cream, apples, massepin (marzipan), almonds, pumpkin, melon, spinach, pishachios, butter, frogs, crawfisnh, carp, liver, and new oysters.] 18th century english tarts savory (meat, vegetables) and sweet (fruit, cheese, custard, jam), dozens of recipes are offered to cooks in this period.
bake pie at 350 degrees f. for about 45 minutes.
general mills' toastwich, which had to be refrigerated, appeared on grocery shelves for less than a year.
drop from tip of spoon, or force through pastry bag and tube on tin sheet or wet board covered with a sheet of paper.
they are indigenous to north america and were known to native americans long before the europeans settled there.
[1911] "sweet potato pie.
italian food history books/cookbooks are curiously silent  on this topic.
utensils to eat pizza?
they are usually priced by the pound and vary greatly in size.
new england economical housekeeper and family receipt book, mrs. e.a. howland
the dutch...made a wider variety of pies than any other group in america...
we never met with these pies elsewhere, but can recommend them.
mrs. beeton's minced meat pies are served hot or cold.]
the second pizzeria opened (according the general concensus of local food experts), opened on the southwest corner of onio street and wabash avenue in 1943: ""when riccardo opened the uno, there was only one other place to buy pizza in chicago and that was on taylor street," [ike] sewell said.
simply roll the cereal, crackers or crumbs fine, and to 1 cup of crumbs add 1-3 cup softened butter and 1-4 cup sugar.
yield: 1 one-crust pie."
during the last two years alone, mr. emil de salvi, who purveys frozen pizzas, has blanketed the country with 5 million pizza pies.
very  frequently, the inexperienced cook finds much difficulty in raising the crust.
if it is true that there  was a parallel trend in both countries towards separating savory from sweet, it  is not surprising that the english pies should have followed the general  movement, but it is noticeable that they did so very much more slowly than made  dishes.
early accounts give various local names, aji, camote, apichu, and others; but the name which stuck was the first known haitian one, batata...
these meringues belong more particularly to confectionary, as they are sweeter than any other."
our the mixture into the cracker shell until set.
in china, it was given the name limung, which it retained almost unchanged when it moved on to persia and media.
" ---the foods and wines of spain, penelope casas
in the world of food history, this is not uncommon.
punch down dough; run out on lightly floured board.
it's coming out tremblingly firm, enticingly fluffy--the most palate teasing morsel yet to call itself pie.
the informal, communal way it was eaten in restaurants made it particualrly popular with teenagers, and by the mid-1950s boisterous "pizza parlors" dotted the main streets of italian neighborhoods, their oversized booths for six or eight crammed with voracious young eaters, while others lounged by the entrance waiting for take-home orders...
[oxford university press:oxford] 1999 (p. 273)
tins serve as the baking pans.
these portable pies... pasties, turnovers, empanadas, pierogi, calzones...were enjoyed by working classes and sold by street vendors.
lemons are a favorite component of southern cooking.
it does not reference any specific name-brand products.
fad attracts fans seeking sport."
---eating in america: a history, waverley root & richard de rochemont
it was so thick that it required the use of a knife and fork -- which brought down another wall of pizza tradition: pizza had always been something that you ate with your hands.
" ---pennsylvania dutch cookery, j. george frederick
bake until filling is just set, about 35 minutes; do not overbake.
the curcurbits are a large, rich family including cucumbers, melons, and squashes.
there were no ingredients for the pizza dough  itself; instead, the reader was told that the dough "can be purchased in  any italian bake shop.
" ---"favorite recipes," mrs. j. s. mulhern,el paso herald post [tx], july 17, 1958 (p. 13) [1971] remember making this pie with ice cube trays? "lime icebox pie crust: 1 cup graham cracker crumbs 3 tablespoons melted butter filling: 2 eggs, separated 1 can eagle brand milk 1/4 teaspoon vanilla 3 to 4 drops green food coloring 3 tablespoons sugar
the name may derive from the italian island of stromboli, but more  probably refers to a very big, strong character in the fairy tale the  adventures of pinocchio (1882) by carlo lorenzini, whose pen name was  "collodi."
remove from fire, fold in whites, stiffly beaten, to which you have added 3 tablespoons sugar.
"the term 'tart' occurs in the 14th century recipe compilation the forme of cury [a cook book], and so does its diminutive 'tartlet'.
"that's what it cost back in 1905.
other articles of interest (your librarian can help you get copies): "the top pizzas in new york: bred and baked by tradition ," the new york times, june 16, 1995, section c;
according to lasyone, the meat pies are tasty--even to strangers  from boston, spokane or sault ste.
---culture and cuisine: a journey through the history of food, jean-francois revel
cream for cream cakes and eclairs 1 pint milk, boiled 2 tablespoonfuls cornstarch 3 eggs, well beaten 3/4 cup sugar 1 saltspoonful salt, or 1 teaspoonful butter
by way of comparison, we also bought and tested at least one sample of fresh pizza in each of those four styles.
food historians place the modern recipe for quiche in (what is currently) the lorraine region of france.
once their guild was recognized, they began to expand the range of their production: in addition to meat pastries and tarts, they also created pastries out of milk, eggs, and cream, usually sweetened, such as darioles, flans, and dauphins.
most of the earliest receipts for choux paste are for fritters...
hammond [wren's press:gloucestershire] 1998 (p. 11)
one such food was fruit.
corporate recipes surfaced in the mid-1970s.
divide into 12 portions and roll out very thin.
according to the present practice, richard briggs [w. spotswood, r. campbell and b. johnson:philadelphia] 1792 (p. 328-330) [1828] "sweet potato pudding.
although galette is a word used for many free-form tarts in  france, this particular galette seems more familiar than most: a large, round  pie, slid into an oven on a paddle and cut into crisp wedges.
pie variations (cobblers, slumps, grunts, etc.) are endless!
this books also contains recipes for meringues filled with creams...chocolate, strawberry, and vanilla creams.]
the distinction between savoury and sweet pies did not become really obvious in the cookery books until around 1720.
you can also make tiny quiches for hot hors d'oeuvres."
mr. bucci's patent  can be viewedonline.]
it requires a lot of  time and careful handling.
the  popular dumplings made with buckwheat and known today in southern poland as  pierogi ruskie did not enter polish cookery until the nineteenth century, when  they came to poland from russia.
" --- the art of cookery made plain and easy, hannah glasse, facsimile 1747 reprint [prospect books:devon] 1995 (p. 75)
unlike gateau saint honore, however, do not employ shortcrust.
sweet potato pie seems to have converged in the american south from very early colonial days.
cook, stirring, until wiltd.
1702 f. massialot court & country cook 207
pumpkin had been superceded by the more civilized fruits (free of association with the natives), of which the settlers had first been deprived.
in the middle  east the traditional shape of sanbusak is a half-moon, usually with edges  crimped or marked with the fingernails; but triangular shapes are also used.
" ---an a-z of food & drink, john ayto
enjoy the revolutionary new frozen product!
let rise 15 minutes and bake at 375 degrees for 15 to 18 minutes.
"on feb. 16, 1964, post unveiled its new product, country squares.
there are many recipes for this pie, or variation of it, and in some, directions are given for ptuting the meat in the dish first, and all the potatoes on the top.
" --- the food chronology, james trager
they're easy to make with refrigerated biscuits, a seasoned tomato sauce and grated cheese.
lombardi's was by most accounts the first new york pizzeria, and mr. lombardi, who hired and trained a series of other immigrants, became the sturdy tap root of a tree of family and acquaintances that would go on to define great new york pizza.
pour into pre-baked pie shell and bake 15 minutes at 350 degrees.
the earliest print reference we find in an american newspaper was published in 1968: "vinegar pastrya midwest connection: 4 cups sifted flour 1 tbsp.
in the nineteenth century george washington carver devised more than a hundred uses for the sweet potato...
it consists of a base of bread dough (or sometimes fried slices of bread) with a savoury topping.
the meat pie kitchen in an old downtown strip along the cane river has become something of a landmark in recent years--a haven for busloads of tourists, as well as for travelers armed with ice chests for long-distance takeout orders.
use your brower's  "find" feature to locate recipes and history notes.]
froth the whites of three eggs with five tablespoonfuls sugar.
allow to cool and top with whipped cream.
if this is true, then the calzone, not to mention the empanada, is related to the old fried pastry of the medieval arab world, sanbusak....sanbusak, an arabic word that comes from persian sanbusa, meaning anything triangular, which was first described as a stuffed pastry in the early ninth century by ishaq ibn ibrahim...a well-known author from iraq.
the more popular recipe, at least as far as our mail indicates, is made with frozen whipped topping.
" ---cassell's dictonary of cookery with  numerous illustrations [cassell, petter, galpin & co.:london] 1874?
croquant was "invented" at this time.
"utterly deadly southern pecan pie 4 eggs 1 1/4 cups southern cane syrup 1 1/2 cups broken pecan meats 1 cup sugar 4 tablespoons butter 1 teaspoon vanilla boil sugar and syrup together two or three minutes.
method: beat whole eggs slightly, add karo, corn meal, sugar and melted butter, then stir all thoroughly.
" ---"patent on lev single-cap hatbox brings inquiry by senate group," stacy v. jones,new york times, december 10, 1955 (p. 28) [1956] "king's 2 in pkg.
the earliest records of the cultivation of the sweet potato, dated to around 750 b.c., come from peru, but it was grown throughout south and central america by the time christopher columbus arrived in the new world...
slice and cube the pork, them put in a layer.
hot or cold,  on-the-go breakfast or late night snack, pop tarts were perfect.
baked or fried, thick or thin, large or small, they are often served at festive occasions.
the lemon is chiefly valuable for its antiscorbutic vitamins.
then add 1 cup strained orange juice and 1 tablespoon strained lemon juice.
prepare the dough as directed...kneading it twice.
also, "the most delicate root that may be eaten," as the sixteenth-century english mariner and slave trader john hawkins called it, suited european taste.
these eateries did not (have to) advertise to  draw business.
" ---oxford companion to food, alan davidson
to rolls out a piece the size of a pie crust on his marble slab, cuts up fresh italian cheese over it, covers it with tomato--the little italian pear tomato--sprinkles olive oil over it, and deposits it in the brick oven for a few minutes.
these are laid on their sides on a baking sheet and they fan out as they bake to resemble the leaves of palm trees.
it's a carry-over from the days when amernick's bakery was in wheaton, on the site of a former dutch bakery.
pie plates were the most popular.
fillings vary from one country or region to another.
molasses was often substituted for treacle in colonial american recipes.
the pizzas, which are kept under refrigeration  but not frozen, are ready to pop into the oven...one pizza (about nine inches  in diameter) yields two generous servings, or three for not quite such  ambitious appetites...though mr. giuffre's roma pizza company, inc. has been  operating in long island city for only a little more than ten days, it is  already turning out 3,000 of the delectable pastries daily."
our research indicates the first pizzas may have cost 5 cents: "nov. 10, 2005, marks our 100th anniversary.
any stuffing can be used for such as cold cuts, cheese, roasted peppers, vegetables, among others.
there are two basic variations on the traditional amish shoofly pie recipe.
yield: about 20  meat pies.
(though "pizza"  means pie or pies, some americans insist on saying "pizza  pies.
"while much emphasis had been placed on cereal cultivation, there is increasing evidence that tubers also played an important role in african diets as well and seem to date back to 18,000 to 17,000 years ago.
when well mixed, drip, in tablespoonfuls, on a buttered baking-pan, some distance apart.
1 tablespoonful of cinnamon.
" ---"refrigerator cakes and pies eliminate baking drudgery," ann barrett,washington post, august 1, 1933 (p. 9) "cheers!
shops around new haven, conn., for example, make "broccoli bread" stuffed with the vegetable and italian sausage.
in  the 1950s...pizza suddenly burst onto center stage.
a rim of crust was left around the bread to serve as a kind of handle..." ---the pizza book: everything there is to know about the world's greatest pie, evelyn slomon
when kellogg's pop-tarts were  introduced, ads highlighted the item's convenience and often featured  "milton the toaster."
we cannot confirm packaging (sold in prepacked bags?).
" --- the experienced english housekeeper, elizabeth raffald, facsimile 1769 edition with an introduction by roy shipperbottom [southover press:east sussex] 1997 (p. 82) colonial american tarts about tart tatin arguably, the most famous of all french tarts!
"the farther east the letters came from, the more frequently their writers suggested the deep-fry method using bread dough (either frozen or homemade).
emapanda recipes, 1529 [translated into english.
people were making and selling meat pies around natchitoches when he took his first steps off the farm nearly half a century ago.
in india triangular and cone-shaped samosas are popular.
food historians traces these dishes to the middle ages, if not before.
it obviously could not be served with the big crack.
it is usually served at room temperature as often as not because in provence, and throughout france, pizza is snack bread.
1727  r. bradley family dict.
researchers are also faced with establishing the meaning of archaic terms and technical expressions.
and today he sells nearly 160,00 of the delicacies every hear. '
england got its first taste of the tuber in 1564, when sir john hawkins brought it back from "the indies of nova hispania,"...the term "sweet potato" was not in use in america until the 1740s, but then distinguished from the white potato that had come to boston about 1719 with irish immigrants...
if the pie is to be baked in a mould, lay a piece of the  proper shape in the bottom.
the calsones and reshteh were mixed together, dressed with melting butter, and served with yoghurt.
but of lately the flying of frisbees has become something of a national craze among adults...soldiers in vietnam find a frisbee session relaxing after a day in the bush chasing the vietcong...
with a cutter six  inches in diameter, cut out circles.
a spanish and latin american savoury turnover.
some very old community cookbooks contain pie recipes that make their own crusts just from flour; others call for homemade biscuit mix.
with a little imagination, a  round cooked choux bun, or fritter, resembles the shape of a small cabbage.
at the texas state fair, largest exhibition of its kind, pizza evoked great interest on the midway.
carefully slide the tart pan into the oven a good medium heat coming mostly from the bottom.
after the first sale yesterday prices declined 50 cents per box."
what distinguishes  the stromboli from its better-known cousin calzone is its multiple-serving loaf  shape.
" ---siren feasts: a history of food and gastronomy in greece, andrew dalby
required: for a medium-sized pie, a pound and a half of pork, the same weight of paste, about a teaspoonful and a half of salt, or, for some, two teaspoonfuls will be none too much, nearly as much pepper, and herbs if approved, and a little gravy.
gastronomy flourished in the nineteenth  century...
knead on a lightly floured board for about 10 minutes until smooth and elastic.
they were an ideal meal for travelers and were often served to field hands during their breaks.
cook,  turning the pies in th hot fat until nicely broaned and cooked through, about  eight minutes.
its french name remains unaltered.
[1963] "quiche lorraine, although it seems to be the most well known, is only one of a series of generally simple-to-make and appetizing entrees.
" --- food and feast in tudor england, alison sim
searches of several dozen early-twentieth-century cookbooks turn up a few "souffle" and "sponge" pies, but these contained no gelatin and/or whipped cream.
[oxford university press:oxford] 2002 (p. 269)
" ---larousse gastronomique, completely revised and updated [clarkson  potter:new york] 2001 (p. 899) "a pissaladiere is in effect a provencal version of the pizza.
a condiment originating  from the nice region, made of anchovy puree flavored with cloves, thyme, bay  leaf and pepper and mixed with olive oil.
they often combined  meat with fruit (apples, raisins) and spices (nutmeg, cinnamon, ginger, etc.)
1825 s. r. in  hone every-day bk.
a check of the pizzas for extraneous matter also yielded disquieting results--about 96 per cent of the samples tested contained some quantity of insects or insect fragments.
so take thedoctor's advice in reading this presecription.
from the arabic at-tabl (the drum).
our survey of historic newspapers confirms stromboli piqued the palates of mainstream america in the 1990s.
bottled lemon juice, sterilized at low temperature may be kept for a long time and should be carried by those who are compelled to make long trips into regions that will be deficient in fresh fruit and vegetables.
to honor its certainty, the college unveiled a bronze sculpture a few weeks ago by patrick farrow, and artist, of a dog catching a flying disc in its mouth.
a specialty of the nice region, consisting of a flan filled with onions and garnished with anchovy fillets and black olives.
a recipe for lemon pie immediately precedes this recipe.
they were baked pies with stiffly beaten egg whites folded in just before they went into the oven...
the patent number is 2,688,117.
pour over each tart a tea spponful of lemon-juice, and three tea spoonfuls of the liquor they were boiled in; put on your lid, and bake them in a slack oven.
it is so simple--mostly just sweet onions on a wonderful crust.
ask your librarian to help you findmedieval arab cookery, maxime rodinson, a. j. arberry & charles perry
quiche, as we know to today, evolved from ancient roman patinea (cheesecake) and medieval european tarts.
accordingly, cu's food technologists evaluated from three to six samples of each frozen pizza fro flavor, aroma, texture and appearance...
it is not related to the ordinary potato, although both plants are of american origin.
jeanne had the brilliant idea that was to make them famous.
in the most basic sense, timbales are fancy molded compositions combining an outer layer of starch (grain, pasta, rice) with fillings (meat, vegetable, fruit).
heap them on a serving tray,  hot from the oven, and watch them disappear.
mix them well together, lay a good puff paste round the edge of your china dish, bake in a gentle oven half an hour.
" ---oxford companion to food, alan davidson [oxford university press:oxford] 1999 (p. 609-610)
if you  have the opportunity to taste the real thing never pass it up.
page 1; column 1 "pizza a la mode,"the new york times, feb. 12 1956 vi 64:3  (profile of gennaro lombardi) "the pizza with an attitude," travel holiday, jun97, vol.
they are wrapped separately in order to prevent decay by crushing together.
3/4 cup cup of white sugar.
bind it, if you will, and bake it; when it is baked, besprinkle it with water of flowers, sugar it, and serve.
so here the term 'choux' seems to apply to both  paste and to the small buns made from this paste.
modern cape breton pork pies, however, are different.
these words first meant specifically the sweet potato, not the white potato that was introduced much later to the north american colonies...
one explanation for the popularity of empanadas in galicia  is that they suit the character of these northern peoples, for the pies hide  their contents from public view, just as the gallegos often remian aloof and  secretive.
pare, quarter, and core six  large apples, put them into a sauce-pan with a little water and lemon-peel,  cover them close, and stew them gently till they are tender; take out the  lemon-peel, and with a spoon put in a tea-spoonful of rose water, make a nice  puff paste, roll in out thin to any small size you please, put in a little of  the apple, turn the paste over, and close them with a knife; cut them either  three-corner ways or square, or in any shape you please, ice them, and bake  them in a moderate overn or tin or iron plates.
"...on june 11, 1889, an official of the royal palace asked a local pazaiolo named raffaele esposito to create a special pizza for the visit of king umberto i's consort, queen margherita, to capodimonte.
inside might be anything at all, including the famous "four-and-twenty blackbirds" or even a small child (unbaked and uneaten, i assure you).
pierogi/pirogi made with choux  pastry (buttery, flaky crusts) are 19th century recipes.
these new foods (pumpkins, potatoes, tomatoes, peanuts, corn etc.) were incorporated/assimilated/adapted into traditional european cuisines, each in their own way and time.
" ---daily news, huntingdon and mount union [pa], january 23, 1963 (p. 12) [1965] "pillsbury frozen pie crusts, pkg of two 9 inch shells, 29 cents.
the  largest is called kilebiaka, while the smallest is called by the diminutive  piroshki.
cream puffs, as we know them today, are usually filled withcustard or french cremes.
there are several claimants to this honor.
] "turnovers.--make some good pastry, roll it out  to the thickness of a quarter of an inch, and stamp it in rounds from four to  seven inches in diameter, lay fresh fruit and sugar, or jam, on one half of the  pastry, moisten the edges, and turn the other half right over.
boile it with good milk, pass it through a straining pan very thick, and mix it with sugar, butter, a little salt and if you will, a few stamped almonds; let all be very thin.
while american dictionaries date the first print instance of the term "cobbler" in 1859, nancy baggett (fellow iacp member and cookbook author) recently located this older reference.
they are served with tea or coffee or as an accompaniment to ice cream and other desserts.
in mr. strause's own words, chiffon pie was 'invented' in 1938: "orange and lemon chiffon pies...
ordinary meringue whisk 8 egg whites until they become as stiff as possible.
" ---"garden notes," john a. armstrong,los angeles times, february 12, 1933 (p. h12) "...for home places where room is not plentiful, the new chinese dwarf lemon, the meyer, is possibly the finest lemon that can be lanted.
a site was leased, and riccardo began painting bullfights and cockfights on the walls.
about a hundred years later citrus fruits had begun to arrive in england itself.
optional items such as cheese trips are added and the whole is then frozen.
pumpkin piepumpkin pie food historians tell us members of the gourd family (melons, cucurbits, etc.) of all shapes and sizes were known to ancient old world cooks.
chill until firm and garnish.
or it may be just sprinkled with melted dripping (a brush is used for this), or it may be coated with beaten egg, part of which may then be used in the mashed potatoes.
you may put in half a pound of currants well washed and picked.
reduce to 325 degrees and bake firm.
research conducted by lynne olver, editorthe food timeline.
there is some conjecture that perhaps  antonin careme (1784-1833), a famous pastry chef for french royalty might have  created something akin to eclairs.
the ingredients for la varenne's reciept includes a fist-size of fresh cheese...bruised with a little flour, two eggs, a further handful of flour or salt.
the crust of thick- or double-crust pizza, also called "west  coast" style, serves as a foundation for a larger number of  toppings...
there is reason to believe that this preparation is the progenitor of the empanada and calzone.
(2) lasyone's is "the meat pie's origins are shrouded in history, lost in the days  when indian met spaniard in the forests around the oldest settlement in the  louisiana purchase.
" ---on food and cooking: the science an lore of the kitchen, harold mcgee [simon & schuster:new york] revised edition 2004 (p. 304)
tolkowsky...adduces complex arguments in favour of this view (as against the earlier view that the lemon did not arrive until the 10th century), and refers to frescos found at pompeii (and therefore prior to ad 70) which show what he regards as indisputably lemons; also a mosaic pavement probably from tusculum...of about 100 ad in which a lemon is shown with an orange and a citron.
pour filling into two ungreased deep 8-in.
this made  it ideal for the two main growth sectors in the television-battered restaurant  industry, drive-ins and take home places.
lemon recipes followed, often as a simple ingredent substitition for oranges.
roll out this dough to the same thickness, and cut it  ito six-inch circles.
south philadelphia is generally regarded as the american epicenter for this delcious dish.
esposito quickly named the newly fashionable pizza after the queen, and thus was born the pizza alla margherita and that was to become the classic neapolitan pizza, recognized as such by the associazone vera pizza napoletana (the true neapolitan pizza association)...
makes 8 to 10 servings.
in french culinary parlance today the same word is still used in the phrase dresser en timbale to describe the serving of some preparation in a large bowl, which may be a vegetable dish or leguimier, although used for many other foodstuffs than vegetables.
drain well and sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon.
cover the base with thin rashers of bacon which have been blanched and lightly fried in butter.
a likely forebear is the sicilian 'nfigghiulata antica, which carlo middione details inthe food of southern italy...
regarding the origin of calzones there are a couple  of theories: "calzone means "pant leg" in italian.
these pastries were still  made in iran as late as the 16th century, but they have disappeared from most  of the country today...
sufficient, one pound of pastry will make two dozen turnovers.
it could be that pork fat was  once used as the shortening, or it might be a reflection of the wonderful cape  breton sense of humor.
this is the best-known product of perouges, a well-preserved and perfectly restored medieval village not far from lyons.
to be successful with these recipes, it will only be necessary for you to follow the instructions very closely.
it  flourishes in the balmy southeast region of the country.
neither did we find recipes with this name in our old cookbooks.
first they want to see one...they of  course they still don't know anything.
[note: "blue label" karo was dark-colored corn syrup.]
" --- the french cook, francois pierre, la varenne, englished by i.d.g. 1653, introduced by philp and mary hyman [southover press:east sussex] 2001 (p. 200) [note:
season the whole with pepper and  salt, half a dozen young sage-leaves finely shred; or a tea-spoonful of dried  and powdered sage, one ounce of salt, two and a quarter ounces of pepper, and a  pinch of cayenne, may be allowed for a pie containing three pounds of meat.
it's also readily available.
serve hot, warm, or cold; quiche will sink slighly as it cools.
" ---"breaker's key lime pie is creamier than mostreakers' key lime pie," linda cicero, the miami herald, april 21, 1988 (p. e10)
there's usually no stinting, however, on whipped cream.
chill, stirring occasionally, until mixture has a consistency resembling unbeaten egg white.
divide filling into the 2 crusts.
the foundation of pizza  is a dough similar to that in english muffins.
the success of the tourist business prompted the family to freeze pies and sell them.
harvard shakespeare concordance confirms the use of the word 'potato' in act 5, scene 5, line 19.the riverside shakespeare [houghton mifflin:1974] note 19 states: "potatoes--sweet potatoes (which were thought to stimulate sexuality.)] thomas dawson's recipe, c. 1596: "to make a tart that is courage to a man or womansweet potatoes in north america take two quinces and two or three bur [burdock] roots, and a potato, and pare your potato and scrape your roots, and put them into a quart of wine.
but without fresh gourds to hand, you can prepare this soup with winter squash or pumpkin.
although galette is a word used for many free-form tarts in france, this particular galette seems more familiar than most: a large, round pie, slid into an oven on a paddle and cut into crisp wedges.
it was not until 1566 that the king joined the paris cookie makers guild to that of the pastry makers, and the two would be wedded frequently thereafter.
beat the whites to a stiff meringue with three tablespoonfuls powdered sugar and a little rose-water.
[cassell and company:london] 1894 (p. 782-3) [note:
thenapoletana, i.e. pizza of naples, can  indeed be seen, and has been so far seen for over a century, as the archtype of  modern pizzas..." ---oxford companion to food, alan davidson
[said] mr. cole...yale suggests that its students were the first to throw pie-tins because the frisbie pie company, which was based in bridgeport, conn., likely sold pies near yale.
the name comes from the algonquin indian paccan, which denoted hickories, including pecans...
" ---cambridge world history of food, kenneth f. kiple & kriemhild conee
meringue recipeshere.
this cake is sometimes said to have been named after st. honore, the patron saint of bakers, but others say that it owes its name to the rue saint-honore in paris, where it was created (possibly as a development of some existing product) in 1846 by a patissiere, chiboust.
they are also made for nauroz (new year's day, 21 march, the first day of spring).
by leaving the pie for 24 hours, you wil find that the flavours blend together in the most delicious way.
[oxford university press:oxford] 2002 (p. 274-5) "quiche.
" --- mrs. rorer's philadelphia cook book, mrs. s[arah] t[yson] rorer [philadephia: 1886] (p. 117) [1894] "cottage pie required: a pound and a half of cooked potatoes, half a pound to three-quarters of cold meat, seasoning and gravy as below.
time to bake, fifteen to  twenty minutes.
when these laborers came to america to work the copper mines, they brought lunch with them.
empanada'  means covered with bread'; and bread dough may be used, but the usual covering  is shortcrust pastry.
tart shells 4  tablespoons icing sugar 2 cups flour cut the butter into the flour;  add the sugar and knead until well blended.
the gravy should be made from the bones and any skinny and gristly parts of the meat, seasoned as required, and strenghthened with gelatine or meat of a gelatinous sort; the liquor form boiled pork should be used in place of water at the start, should any be handy; supposing, for instance, the feet and ears of a pig to have been boiled, there is in the liquor a good foundation for the gravy of the pie.
[1931] "fairy lemon tart 1 large or 2 small pies i. soak 2 teaspoons of gelatine and 1/3 cup of cold water.
when paired with "country," it seemed to describe a food for middle-age rubes from the sticks...
[greenberg:new york] 1932 (p. 340) [1937] "lemon chiffon pie 1 tablespoon gelatin 1/4 cup water 4 eggs, separated 1 cup sugar 1/2 teaspoon salt 1 1/2 teaspoons grated lemon rind 6 tablespoons lemon juice 1 baked (9-inch) pastry or cream cheese pastry shell 1 cup heavy cream, whipped soften gelatin in 2 tablespoons water.
they may be square in shape like ravioli or in half-moon or oblong shapes.
the use of cake flour in the pastry makes the crust very tender and delicate; use some extra care in the rolling process.
in the thirteenth century arabic cookery book of al-baghdadai, sanbusaj is described as a stuffed triangular pastry fried in sesame oil.
esposito created  three examples, but the one most favored by the queen was made with ingredients  in the three colors (tricolore) of the italian flag--red (tomato), white  (mozzarella) and green (basil) atop the pizza dough.
the original edition of larousse gastronomique [1938] includes both description and recipe (en francais, we can send if you like).
sweet potatoes are much richer when twice cooked.
dissolve for 5 minutes 1/2 tablespoonful of gelatine in 1-3 cupful of cold water.
turn into a raw pie shell and bake in a moderate oven about forty-five minutes, or untl set.
sanbusak, an arabic word that comes from the persian  sanbusa, meaning anything triangular, was first described as a stuffed pastry  in the early ninth century by ishaq ibn ibrahim (d. 851), a well known author  from iraq...
finish baking for 20 minutes in a moderate oven (325 degrees f.).
for a pound of sugar take the whites of ten eggs, and clarify the sugar as directed in its proper place.
a peach pot pie, or cobler, as it is often termed, should be made of clingstone peaches, that are very ripe, and then pared and sliced from the stones.
stir the mixture until the fat is dissolved, and pour it  boiling hot into a pound and a half of flour.
---"news of food: pizzas now offered here ready-to-cook,"new york  times, june 28, 1950 (p. 34) [1951] "with almost every jobbing musician in the local  working at another trade or business during the day, it remained for emil de  salvi, band man about town, to finally shelve his music vocation when his  odd-hour avocation paid off highter than the union scale.
necessity required westward-bound pioneer cooks to adapt traditional oven-baked pie recipes to quick biscuit treats that could be cooked in dutch ovens.
for a richer pie, allow a larger proportion of meat.
in nigeria, the yam spirit, called ifejilku by some, has a special cult...
pirozhki are small pirogs.
the  initial burner and pot, which cost $6.95, have evolved into a restaurant with  three dining rooms capable of seating 100."
(lemon juice and 1/3 lemon rind may be used) 1 cup whipped cream 1 cup granulated sugar few grains salt set gelatine to soak in 1/3 cup water.
"toaster pastries joined the breakfast line-up in 1964 as kellogg's pop-tarts," according to a company pamphlet.
you can make an excellent facsimile back home using a frozen pizza for a base.
fold them into the chocolate mixture with: 1/2 cup sugar fill the pie shell.
preheat oven to 450 degrees.
any stuffing can be used for such as cold cuts, cheese, roasted peppers,  vegetables, among others.
they experimented with pans of various  sizes and shapes and came up with the "pizza-in-a-pan" (some call it  "deep dish") method of cooking that yielded a crust neither  neopolitan nor sicilian but something else, something brand new.
turn out on lightly floured board; knead until smooth and elastic, about eight to 10 minutes.
being associated with sunny southern europe they were considered healthy, much the same way we think of mediterranean foods today.
why substitute pumpkin?
roll out some pieces of plain or standing paste about half an inch thick, line the sides of the pot or oven with the pieces of paste, letting them nearly touch the bottom.
[note: records of the u.s.  patent & trademark office indicate this product was introduced to the  american public october 4, 1973.
registration #73414283] pork pies (also: cheshire &  cape breton pork pie) dishing out the history of pork pies is quite the challenge for any food  historian.
"they kept fooling around with it in our labs," recalls stan reesman, a retired post food technician who invented the cereal fruity pebbles.
all  these descriptions suggest that the amosa was not an item brought by these  courts from their parent lands, but was an existing indigenous product, perhaps  enriched in its stuffing to cater to royal courts." ---a  historical dictionary of indian food, k. t. achaya
where american history is concerned, i find the cornish pasties the  most interesting, not because of their flavor especially but because of the  uses to which they have been put in this country.
s.v. carp, they likewise make a pottage of profitrolles with carp flesh minced."
just as your tarts are going into the oven, whith a feather or brush do them over with melted butter, and then sift double refin'd sugar on them, and this is a pretty icing on them.
the names given to the two  products were one more indication of kellogg's superior marketing savvy.
lemons may be preserved from drying out by immersing in fresh cold water."
apple, pear, apricock, &c. make thus: apples and pears, pare them, cut them in quarters, and core them; cut the quarters a-cross again, set them on in a sauce-pan with just as much water as will barely cover them, let them simmer on a slow fire just till the fruit is tender; put a good piece of lemon-peel in the water with the fruit, then have your patties ready.
this made it ideal for the two main growth sectors in the television-battered restaurant industry, drive-ins and take home places.
" ------the candy cook book, alice bradley [little,boewn & company:boston] 1929 (p. 175-6) [note:
it is widely believed that restless yale students discovered it when they decided to throw pie tins instead of returning them to the frisbie pie company in bridgeport, conn., for their nickel deposit.
four eggs--beat the whites separate--one teacupful of brown sugar, half a nutmeg, two tablespoonfuls of butter; beat them will together; stir in one teacupful and a half of molasses, and then add the whites of eggs.
place on well-greased cookie sheets.
"pizza ticininese, u.s.a.
it is not until the middle of the 19th century we find recipes that would produce lemon meringue pie, though they are not titled as such: [1769] "a lemon pudding blanch and beat eight ounces of jordan almonds with orange flower water.
according to an kellogg's advertisement published in the los angeles times october 28, 1965 (p. d15): blueberry, strawberry, apple-currant and brown sugar-cinnamon.
by definition this word (which comes from arab thabal meaning drum) means a small metal receptacle, round in shape and mostly intended to hold a beverage.
sprinkle the bottom of a buttered, clear-glass, 9- by 1 1/4-inch pie plate with corned beef; top with the cheese and then with the kraut.
tuscany's schiacciata...was first roasted on stones by the ancestral etruscans...
medieval recipes for a tart in ember day (ember day was a christian meatless day) and tart de bry quite resemble modern quiche.
to meet the needs of the ordinary housewife, timbale cases are made in fireproof porcelain in the same shape and colour as the real pie-crusts.
add the  beef and pork and cook, stirring and chopping down with the sides of metal  spoon to break up any lumps.
spread each layer with butter, and prinkle slightly with sugar, and bake until hot and slighlty browned.
he said that his  delivery men had wrecked six cars in the last six years and that his insurance  had been cancelled.
" ---"they're frozen assets,"washington post, july 21, 1966 (p. d3) [1967] "one of the best sellers it the grotto is a $.75 snack--the famous pizza tichinese, somewhat similar to the pizzas of southern italy.
cream a cup of butter and one of sugar together, add the yolks to the sugar and butter and beat well, then stir in the poatoes and beat again.
morevever, they are plants whose origin and dispersals may help in an understanding of how humans manipulated and changed specific types of plants to bring them under cultivation.
pop-tarts quickly joined the cast  of sugared cereals being hawked between cartoons.
notable competetitors:: general foods  toastem animals  (owls)[introduced august 31, 1964] calzones
he will let on that 50 pounds of beef is mixed with 10 pounds of pork, that the fried pastry is something between a turnover and a taco and that a louisiana-style dark gravy is added to the mixture at the end of the cooking process.
as to preserved tarts, only lay in your preserved fruit, and put a very thin crust at top, and let them be baked as little as possible; but if you would make them mice, have a large patty, the size you would have your tart.
we also know that stromboli can go by different  names.
originating in china, introduced to the usa in 1908, popular in the 1930s.
beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and add one-third to the batter.
its presence on a princely table in the middle of the nineteenth century, albeit as a provincial alternative to consomme, speaks volumes about the evolution of the sicilian 'baronial cuisine'.
achieving the same purpose.
a careful examination of ingredients and method bear witness: [1753] "apple pasties to fry.
" ---"a novel ice box pie,"christian science monitor, september 18, 1931 (p. 6) [1932] "pie is always acceptable as a dessert no matter what the season.
pop-tarts represented both a diversification from cereal and an expansion of  the cereal line into a breakfast line...
it seems likely that in classical rome the fruit was treated as a curiosity and a decoration, and that lemon trees were not grown in italy until later.
our into large baked pastry and set in ice box for 2 hours or more.
carrots were sometimes employed in this manner in england.
"the frisbee started as an obscure fad with a beginning as modest as a five-cent pie tin.
it begins "dinner guests sometimes click their heels with glee over a superb dessert."
" ---oxford companion to food, alan davidson [oxford university press:oxford] 2nd edition, 2007(p.
" ---oxford encyclopedia of food and drink in america, andrew f. smith
the cooks closest to french culinary practice removed the sugar entirely...e. smith gave pies with chicken and with lamb in both savoury and sweet versions, but allowed the confustion of flavours to persist in her vegetable and mince pies--in other words, those where the sweet-savoury association lingered the longest.
why are sweet potatoes pies sometimes served with marshmallows?
related fruits: oranges & grapefruit.
" ---directions for cookery in its various branches, miss leslie [philadelphia:1849] (p. 111) [1861] baked minced mutton (recipe 703) & baked beef (recipes 598 & 599) ---mrs.
and yet it was so much more.
season with grated nutmeg and a wineglass of brandy.
[columbia university press:new york] 1995 (p. 95-6) [note: ms. hess adds "tarte comes unchanged form old french.
3 eggs 1 cup sugar 1 cup karo syrup (blue label) 1 tsp.
at king cole, smirnoff's and other fine super markets.
john b. hayes" "fluffyruffle lime pie 4 eggs 4 tablespoons sugar grated rind and juice of 2 small limes beat sugar and yolks of eggs together, add juice and grated rind.
" ---cassell's new universal cookery book, lizzie heritage [cassell and company:london] 1894 (p. 782-3) [note:
" ---cross creek cookery, marjorie kinnan rawlings [charles scribner's sons:new york] 1942 (p. 179-181) [1952] "karo pecan pie crispy nut-brown top...carmel-y filling 1/2 recipe pastry 2 eggs, beaten 1 cup karo syrup, blue label 1/8 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon vanilla 1 cup sugar 2 tablespoons melted butter or margarine 1 cup pecan meats roll pastry 1/8 inch thick.
they are usually served with tea; and often a bride's family sends them to the bride and groom the day after the wedding.
fold the unfilled half of dough over to enclose the filling.
if you are, or will be serving this to people under 21, please omit the alcohol.]
calsones are mostly home made, using egg in the dough, and  usually filled with a cheese and egg mixture.
press small amounts of cough into  small muffin tins.
sugar and chocolate had now arrived on the scene; from the time of louis xiv onwards those delicacies became extremely popular...
there are lots of things you can do with fresh pineapple, but for molded desserts and salads you will have to use cooked or canned pineapple.
---display adbetter homes & gardens, december 1952 (p. 87)
for each person provide 1 individual-size  frozen pizza..." ---"the fast gourmet," poppy cannon, chicago daily defender, june 1, 1967 (p. 24) [1972] "if your taste runs to pizza, we have some good  news and some bad news.
this very day, see why so many people say no pies compare with pet-ritz apple, cherry, peach...6 delicious fruit or berry favorites...made the traditional fruit-country way, baked by you the new easy way!.
it was just a matter of time before frozen pizzas were competing with tv dinners for space on the consumer's ubiquitous living room feeding tray.
when you can find them.
unless the  pastry walls are thick, the juice burst out and spoil its appearance...
this made tarts a popular choice for cooks who wanted to present colorful dishes.
the most frequent method of cooking was frying, but pastry was also cooked beneath coals.
bake in an undercrust till the pastry is done.
lemon peel, grated or candied lemon was also a typical garnish.
tarte  flambee is a bit puffier and less flat than most pizza.
a nourishing all-family  treat for lunch boxes and after-school snacks as well as for breakfast ."
beat, smooth and add the juice of the limes to desired tartness.
to show you what i mean here is a recipe for orange pie...
our general history  notes on the topic of filled pasta/pastry here: poland: "pierogi or pierozki: dumplings or "dough  pockets" made by preparing thinly rolled noodle dough, cutting into  squares and filling them poaching the sealed triangles until cooked.
he had never tasted tht stuff, never even heard of it, but agreed with  riccardo that it should serve as a meal not just an appetizer as it was in  italy.
take the skin of a loin  of pork, and cut it into steaks.
spread some clean paper on the board, turn the meringues upside down on that paper, and put them into the oven, that the crumb or soft part may be baked and acquire substance.
hot dog,"  thomas morrow,chicago daily tribune, august 3, 1954 (p. 18)
it first appeared in print in massailot [1691], although earlier recipes for the same thing but without the name had been published.
[william morrrow:new york] 1999(p.
roll it out into a sheet, make a hole in the centre of the crust, to allow the escape of steam.
[1927] "sweet potatoes and marshmallows three cupfuls freshly boiled sweet potaotes mashed, one-half cupful sugar, one-quarter cupful butter, one cupful chopped pecans, add raisins if desired or any other combination of nuts or raisins or either alone.
as was the custom of the day, these holes were variously filled with sweet or savory fillings.
bake at mark 7, 220 degrees c (425 degrees f), for 20-30  minutes, then lower the heat to mark 3, 160 degrees c (325 degrees f), and  leave for a further 45 minutes, or until the pork feels tender when tested with  a larding needle or skewer through the central hole in the pastry lid."
and so let it boil till it be something big.
and put in an ounce of dates.
[prospect books:london] 1986 (p. 136-137) "elephant ears 2 to 2 1/2 cups unsifted all-purpose flour 1/4 cup sugar 1/2 teaspoon salt 1 package active dry yeast 1/4 cup milk 1/4 cup water 1/4 cup margarine 1 egg (at room temperature)
why do we call it "pizza?" "the origins of its name are not altogether clear.
by the 1800s american were enjoying candied sweet potatoes, along with less lavish preparations of boiled, roasted, or mashed tubers.
nobody has  disputed his claim to having the oldest pizzeria in the united  states....gennaro said, "they all came here to eat my pizza, all the opera  stars, scotti, tetrazzini, caruso..." ---"pizza a la mode,"  herbert mitgang,the new york times, february 12, 1956 (p. sm 133)
unfortunately, very few crusts filled the bill even  well enought to be rated fair...no cu food project would be complete without a  close look at product cleanliness.
pour into baked pie shell and top with meringue.
knopf:new york] 1982 (p. 52) [note:
as for the origins of calsones, claudia roden [in her bookthe book of jewish food, 1996] suggests that they came to the aleppo community with the italian jews who left italy at various times, beginning in the 16th century, when there was a mass emigration eastwards following the expulsion of jews from italy.
reesman insists country squares were superior, but he says, "we could see the handwriting on the wall."
a closer examination of culinary evidence suggests this group may be able to claim the name, but maybe not the recipe.
some of the ingredients do, however, get acquainted with the top of the stove.
" ---oxford companion to food, alan davidson [oxford university press:oxford] 1999 (p. 717) survey of historic recipes mutton and beef pies are found in medieval british texts.
[1871] "lemon custard pie no. 2 grate one-half outside of a lemon and squeeze out the juice, yolks of two eggs, two tablespoonsful heaped of sugar, half a cup of water, one teaspoonful of butter; stir well, and bake in a deep dish lined with crust; beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth; stir in two tablespoonsful of pulverized sugar and spread over the top of the pie as soon as it is baked set in the oven till the top is nicely browned.
but james lasyone is sure of at least two things.
and the answer--the newly arrived family of refrigerator pastries that is setting the town buzzing and taking the floor even from the absorbing matter of jigsaws.
pizza was certainly known to chicago for several decades before the sewell's opened shop.
in fact, we find a recipe for palm leaves (palmenblatter) inviennese cooking, o. and a. hess
" "a pudding made thus.
the earliest pizza prototypes originated when neolithic tribes  first gathered wild grains, made them into a crude batter, and cooked them on  the hot stones of their campfires...italians may have made pizza famous, but  they certainly did not invent the concept of the dish...the greeks, who  occupied the southernmost regions of italy for over 600 years (from about  730b.c. to 130 b.c.), were the greatest bakers of ancient times...flat, round  breads were baked with an assortment of "relishes" (in ancient greek,  a relish meant anything spread or baked on bread), such as oils, onions,  garlic, herbs, olives, vegetables, and cheese, on tip.
put into your dish a layer of pork, then a layer of pippins,  pared and cored, and sugar sufficient to sweeten it.
yield: one nine-inch pie."
if you have the opportunity to taste the real thing never pass it up.
thomas jefferson introduced the tree to the eastern shores of virginia, and he gave some to george washington fo planting at mount vernon.
" ---display ad, los angeles times, august 22, 1957 (p. a6)
pizza was a neapolitan food uncommon in most of italy but popular in new york city after g. lombardi opened a pizzeria on spring street in 1905.
every town has its own variation...carol field, author of several books on italian food, suggests that calzone may have existed in medieval latin as early as 1170, according to a reference in padua, although the historian luigi sada, also the author of several apulian cookbooks, suggests a statute from bisceglie around 1400 as being the first appearance of the word.
the nicer the mince, the nice, of course, will be the pie.
here, the chickens are simply encased in a crust.
you can top it with anything from sausage to  ice cream.
" ---display ad, los angeles times, december 20, 1965 (p. e18) , may 6, 1945 (p. f21)
in about ad 1300  amir khusrau describes, among the foods of the muslim aristocracy in delhi, the  'samosa, preapred from meat, ghee, onion, etc.'.
raw fruit may be used,  but in this case the paste must be thicker, and not quite so rich.
president calvin coolidge is said to have favored a simple lemon custard pie.
" ---american food: the gastronomic story, evan jones
restaurants and caterers soon learned that while quiche was both a popular and hearty appetizer, it was also sturdy, and could be held for hours...
recipes for apple and orange tarts appear in 16th century english cookbooks.
up until the 20th century, lard and suet were common ingredients in pies and pie crusts.
for many  years, pizza was mostly available in cities with large neapolitan populations  [new york, boston, new haven, philadelphia, baltimore etc.].
sedentary turkish  people such as the uzbeks and the people of turkey itself usually bake their  samsas, but nomads such as the kazakhs fry them...
words 606 venison pasties and apple turnovers and runlets of ale.
it is generally agreed that it originated in the north of england and scotland where there are large numbers of sheep--hence the name.
and of the coffee chiffon, served up with hot chocolate, demi-tasse, or even a cup of tea, as a light, relieving touch after a robust meal, is, to me, the perfect selection...
you have the receipt for the crusts in this chapter.
other foods followed in swift progression.
place over water kept at boiling point, whipping until it cooks firm and creamy.
full directions for the raising of the paste will be found on page 785, and either of the reicpes on page 748 may be followed in making it; the medium paste is suitable.
where american history is concerned, i find the cornish pasties the most interesting, not because of their flavor especially but because of the uses to which they have been put in this country.
it is thought that the idea of cooking a cereal paste on a stone in the sun to make pancakes began as far back in time as the neolithic age...
they were convenient, tasty and required no help from mom or dad.
but it was not really until the late nineteenth century that it achieved any sort of general currencey in english.
it is more overpowering than english treacle pie, which it resembles in textrue, for to the insult of the cooked-down syrup is added the injury of the rich pecan meats.
eat when quite cold." ---old southern receipt, mary d. pretlow
palmierspalmiers the practice of fashioning sweet desserts from many-layered pastry is an ancient tradition originating in the middle east.
the new arrival was quickly added to the sweetmeats of britain, among which it is still to be found.
in la varenne'sthe french pastry cook of 1656, the reader is told of 'the manner how to make a little puff-paste bunns, called in french choux.'
" ---the french cook, francois pierre la varenne [1653], translated into english in 1653 by i.d.g., introduced by philip and mary hyman
this is such a stiff mixture, many find it easier to mix with the hand, and some prefer to add the eggs whole, one at a time.
both were marketed to consumers in super markets.
knead well to a stiff paste, and  add a little more warm water if required.
mix bacon, onion and seasonings and scatter some over the pork.
pastry choices range from classic europeanpuff paste to mediterranean filo.
like dumplings, portable pies are a true universal  recipe, spanning all periods and points of the globe.
mexican fillings are highly seasoned with  chilli peppers.
our general history notes on the topic of filled pasta/pastry here: poland: "pierogi or pierozki: dumplings or "dough pockets" made by preparing thinly rolled noodle dough, cutting into squares and filling them poaching the sealed triangles until cooked.
apricocks do the same way; only don't use lemon.
egg 'n vinegar pie crust pastry.
it was baked by men called pizzaioli, who worked in small shops called laboratori.
this delicious tart, in which the taste of caramel is combined with the flavour of apples cooked in butter under a golden crispy pastry crust, established the reputation of the tatin sisters, who ran a hotel-restaurant in lamotte-beuvron at the beginning of the 20th century.
what is perhaps the best-known english mixture of meat and sugar, the mince-pie, retained this combination until well into the nineteenth century, and survives, without the lean meat but with beef suet, to our own day.
the recipe, however is much older.
whether large or small,  they come in many shapes and sizes with the doughs as varied as the  fillings...
make and shape the pies according  to the directions given in the following recipe, and remember that the pies  must be moulded while the paste is warm, and that they are much more easily  made with a mould than without one.
calsones are mostly home made, using egg in the dough, and usually filled with a cheese and egg mixture.
they often combined meat with fruit (apples, raisins) and spices (nutmeg, cinnamon, ginger, etc.)
if you need extensive historic research materials on ny pizza (or other ny foods) contact these organizations: chicago-style (deep dish) pizza food historians generally credit ike sewell and ric riccardo for the "invention" of chicago's deep-dish style pizza.
" ---a mediterranean feast, clifford a. wright
he said is would be cold war, of course, as many of these  pizza pies are frozen. ...
food does not respected man-made political boundaries.
[oxford university  press:oxford] 1999 (p. 125) (calsone is the british spelling for calzone)
perhaps the moniker was tagged on by an immigrant baker with a  knack for marketing.
cut slips of paper two inches broad, on which place the meringues with a spoon; give them the shape of an egg cut in half, and let them all be of an equal size: sift some sugar over them, and blow off the sugar that may have fallen on the paper; next lay your slips of paper on a board, and bake them in an oven moderately hot.
to be fair, such a dismal  bateriological showing doesn't necessarily mean that a food is leaving the  factory in filthy condition.
" ---"live to eat in macy's food festival,"new york times, april 22, 1954 (p. 7) [1954] "petite foods corporation, brooklyn...its line of frozen food specialties, one of which rejoices in an unlikely name, of little bo-pizzas, a miniature frozen pizza product.
roll out plain or standing paste as for other pies, put a sheet of it over a large buttered patty-pan, or deep plate, put in smoothly a thick layer of the potato pulp, and bake it in a moderate oven.
they are sometimes called refrigerator pies.
" ---"powches, puffs and profiteroles: early choux paste receipts,"  david potter,petits propos culinaires 73
a spiced pie made with vinegar, common in the north and midwest since the nineteeth century.
it is possible the name derived from the look of the final product.
divide the butter into thin slices and spread them out over the bottom of the quiche.
the two pieces are  sandwiched together and warmed in the oven, then decorated with sugar and  preserved lemon.
"i take it out of the cardboard box as soon as i bring it home from the store," said sally lewis of miami.
col. s." ---housekeeping in old virginia, marion cabell tyree [1879] (p. 406) [1882] "lemon pie (no. 3) 3 eggs 1 great spoonful butter 3/4 cup white sugar juice and grated peel of lemon bake in open shells of paste.
drain and sprinkle with confectioners' sugar.
calsones with reshteh were a famous jewish dish in aleppo, syria.
since i wrote about this pie some years  ago, readers have occasionally queried its status as a raised pe.
" --- the virginia house-wife, mary randolph, with historical notes and commentaries by karen hess [university of south carolina press:columbia] 1984 (p. 154)
also nice served with salads or cold cuts for luncheon; and ideal for bridge or canasta nibblers.
pumpkins seem to have skipped this honeymoon period.
but it was not really until the late nineteenth century that it  achieved any sort of general currencey in english.
more  inquiries were made about pizza than any other food with the exception of the  "corny dog," the dressed-up hot dog on a stick... ...
the housewife of the philippines takes considerable delight in placing before you a nice grasshopper pie or cake.
bake in a very slow oven of about 250 degrees f. until very lightly browned.
the concept was brought here in the late 1700s and early 1800s with the influx of miners from wales...once the pasties were established in this country, it did not take long for the non-welsh of the region to take to them with relish and add a distinctly american touch..." ---craig claiborne's the new york times food encyclopedia, joan whitman compiler
seleccted textiles and groceries: lemons: unit=box imports (in thousands) 1846-1850=3.1 1851-1855=5.9 1856-1860=9.9 source: western prices before 1861 , thomas senior berry [harvard university press:cambridge ma] 1943 (p. 320) how much did lemons cost?
ask your librarian to help you find a copy of this book.]
the pairing ofpork and apples is ancient.
stew it one hour and a half, or two hours.
neither does it show up in richardin [1913].
there were no ingredients for the pizza dough itself; instead, the reader was told that the dough "can be purchased in any italian bake shop.
sweet fillings are also popular.
about apples in england
[george schumway:york pa] 1966 (p. 130) [note "civell" are oranges from seville, spain].
it is to be observed, that meringues, to be well made, require the eggs to be fresh, and that you are not to break them till the very moment you are going to use them.
neither water nor bone should be put  into pork pies, and the outside pieces will be hard unless they are cut small  and pressed closely together.
cut cold baked sweet potatoes into quarter-inch slices, and put them in an earthen dish.
lemon juice was favored by the early spanish explorers as an antiscorbutic, and dutch and english voyagers also included it in their ships' stores, although it was more likely to find a place among the medicines than as a regular article of diet....
pierogi/pirogi made with choux pastry (buttery, flaky crusts) are 19th century recipes.
traditionally, these nuts are connected with the american south where they have been incorporated into many sweet treats, especiallypecan pie and candy.
early pizza prices are  extremely difficult to research.
but the pizza remained a local delicacy until the concept crossed the atlantic in the memories of immigrants from naples who settled in the cities along the eastern seaboard, especially in new york city.
craig claiborne sums this topic nicely: "turnovers, which are festive and are almost infinate in their variety, also pinpoint to a degree the migrant influences in america.
" ---an a to z of food & drink, john ayto
this may be made by adding to a nicely made and baked tart, a nice whip, made as follows: to the white of a fresh egg, add two tablespoons of finely pulverized white sugar; flavor with lemon, vanilla, or any other flavor, which may be liked, whip the same as for kisses, then with a knife lay it on the top of the tart, and whape it nicely off at the edges, then set it into an oven and close it for a few minutes until it is delicately browned." ---mrs.
, it was arguably worse in 1964, when the word "square" was widely used to mean "nerdy."
as one would expect, these early meat pies were quite different from ones we know today.
take 1 quart of this sweet potato 1 quart sweet milk 1 pint granulated sugar 8 eggs, yolks only, well beaten an mix well together.
lay a good puff paste pretty thin in the bottom of a china dish and pour in your pudding.
put 10 whites of egg in a whipping bowl, and whip them very firm; add 1 lb. of pounded sugar; mix; and, with a spoon, set the mixture at intervals on sheets of paper, in portions of the shape and size of an egg; dredge some pounded sugar over the meringues, and, after a minute, shape off the superfluous sugar; cook the meringues in the oven of some baking boards; and, when they assume a pale yellow tinge, take them off the paper; remove some of the inside with a spoon,--being careful not to spoil the shape of the meringues; dredge a little sugar over, and put them on a baking-sheet, in a slack oven, to dry; reduce 1/2 pint of very stron coffee with 3/4 lb. of sugar, to obtain a syrup registering 38 degrees f. on the syrup gauge; when cold, mix this syrup to some well-shipped double cream; fill the meringues with the cream, reversing one, meringue over the other, and pile them up on a napkin on a dish.
but choux paste, though by other names, can be found in even earlier books and manuscripts.
the had already developed several apple varieties, with fruits smaller than those of today but larger and sweeter than those borne by britain's indigenous wild crabs...
we do not, however, find the recipe in crisco's cooking brochures.
the dish is a welcome addition to italian menus that  usually offer pizza and pasta.
---mastering the art of french cooking, simone beck, louisette bertholle, julia child [alfred a. knopf:new york] 1963 (p. 146) [1972] "quiche lorraine," (cream and bacon quiche) 6 to 8 pieces thick-sliced bacon an 8-inch partially cooked pastry shell placed on a buttered baking sheet 3 eggs (u.s. graded "large")
" ---america's founding food: the story of new england cooking, keith stavely & kathleen fitzgerald
these fruits were expensive and usually preserved (dried) then used in cakes reserved for special occasions.
from the end of fourteenth century the consignments became more frequent, coming in from spain or portugal, or on the italian spice ships.
thus, '90s chiffon pies are likely to contain no eggs at all.
"according to john egerton (southern food, 1987), key lime pie was known in the florida keys "as far back as the 1890s."
they are stuffed with a variety of fillings such as cheese, cheese and egg, minced meat with herbs and spices, vegetables such as potatoes, etc.
in ancient  iraq there was sanbusaq.
but for the times when a less rich and elaborate creation is in order, good cooks of 1933 have opened up a whole new bag of tricks.
in a large bowl, thoroughly mix three-fourths cup of the flour, the quarter-cup sugar and undissolved dry yeast.
why are they called pork pies when they have no pork?
initially, pizza was made by italians for italians, but thy the late 1930s after the great depression many americans were eating pizza in italian restaurants and pizzerias on the east and west coasts...over time, two basic and distinct styles of american pizza appeared.
the grashopper pie is the most wonderful dish, as the big hoppers are prepared in such a way that they do not lose their form.
sprinkle on the sugar, then blend in the egg and milk.
general mills' marcia copeland, director of betty crocker foods and publications, recalls that "we first saw the recipe for (crustless) coconut custard pies in southern community cookbooks."
" "timbales are part of classic french cuisine, and there are numerous specialized recipes...by the end of the nineteenth century it was firmly in place on the best victorian and edwardian tables.
in an electri blender, at high speed, whirl together until smooth the milk, biscuit mix, mayonnaise, chili sauce and eggs--about 15 seconds; pour into pie plage.
remove it from the fire and add the gelatin.
these cooks often used "perfumed waters" (such as rosewater) to flavor their foods and for medicial purposes.
with a little imagination, a round cooked choux bun, or fritter, resembles the shape of a small cabbage.
let stand about 5 minutes and serve at once.
---a historical dictionary of indian food, k. t. achaya
they were similar to "old world" gourds and squash, and superior in flavor.
for the crust to this pie, use either vanilla wafers or gingersnaps.
according to the food historians, filo/phyllo was of turkish origin.
dave's frozen key lime pie 2 graham cracker pie crusts 8 ounces key lime juice 1 14-ounce can sweetened condensed milk 2 8-ounce tubs frozen whipped topping, defrosted bake pie crusts following package instructions and cool.
how much did the first pizzas cost?
brush over with well-beaten egg, and bake in a slow oven, as the meat is solid and requires to be soaked thorugh.
thus, chicken pie became huhner-pastete.
like dumplings, portable pies are a true universal recipe, spanning all periods and points of the globe.
---oxford companion to food, alan davidson [oxford university press:oxford] 1999 (p. 774-5) shakespeare's sweet potatoes "all recipes for potatoes were for sweet, or spanish potatoes.
food historians laud clarence birdseye for launching the american frozen food industry.
the main uses of pecans are in sweet dishes and confectionery, although they are also used in a stuffing for turkey.
gastronomy flourished in the nineteenth century...
this book also contains recipes for french meringues (2 cups sugar, whites 5 eggs, 2/3 cup water, 1 teaspoon vanilla), mushroom meringues (meringue mixture shaped like mushroom caps & stems, topped with grated chocolate or cocoa), turkey meringues (ice-cream filled meringues shaped like turkeys served on spun green sugar), nut meringues (any kind of chopped nutmeats) and cocoanut meringues (whites of 2 eggs, 1/2 teaspoon vanilla, 1/2 cup fine granulated sugar, few grains of salt, 1/2 cup cocoanut shredded).
nonetheless, a quiche lorraine is perceived as something with only a slight meat content.
most pecans now some from cultivated trees, although many old, wild trees continue to produce nuts which are gathered and marketed.
because french pizzas are so difficult to find outside france--and are  among the easiest of all pizzas to make--it makes sense to try them at  home.
"traditional" shoo-fly pies are made with either a "wet bottom" (soft filling and crumb topping) or "dry bottom" (crumb topping is mixed into the filling), which is commonly served for breakfast."
"" ---oxford companion to food, alan davidson [oxford university press:oxford] 1999 (p. 197) "meringue.
you can examine several 19th century american recipes courtesy of michigan state university.
beat at high speed two minutes, scraping bowl occasionally.
the authentic quiche lorraine contains only smoked bacon in adition ot the cream-and-egg custard, but many alternative versions have grown up that include cheese and onion.
a very light, sweet fluffy filling for a pie, cake, or pudding.
the stromboli is a specialty of philadelphia, though similar to an italian confection called the calzone...
importantly,  the second cooking of these pastries results in the formation of a pouch or  pocket--ideal for filling with savoury of sweet mixture.
stir all very hard together.
the larousse gastronomique explains that the name commemorates the tatin sisters, who popularized it in their restaurant at lamotte-beuvron, to the south of orleans, in the early 20th century.
it  was, however the most successful.
roman pastry does not appear to have included many innovations over and above what the greeks had already invented."
lemon meringue pielemon meringue pie
advertisements also consisted of the full brand name and the slogan "drop em into the toaster-or eat em just as they are." printed across the side of the toaster with pop-tarts popped up.
there are frozen pie crust shells, each the 9-inch size, packed in foil pans, all rolled and ready for a favorite filling.
john wardlow" ---key west cook book, woman's club, key west florida [1949] (p. 215-218) recipe for the breakers key lime pie?
and place in the refrigerator to set.
slice bacon into 1/4-inch pieces and brown lightly in a frying pan; drain and spread in bottom of pastry shell.
season the whole with pepper and salt, half a dozen young sage-leaves finely shred; or a tea-spoonful of dried and powdered sage, one ounce of salt, two and a quarter ounces of pepper, and a pinch of cayenne, may be allowed for a pie containing three pounds of meat.
according to sturtevant.
here pizza evolved into a large, sheet-like pie, perhaps eighteen inches or more in diameter, reflecting the abundance of the new country....
according to the food historians, lemon flavored custards, puddings and pies have been enjoyed since medieval times.
the lemons are being used as perfume in linen closets an the island.
product introduction and marketing strategy
cut your lamb, or veal, into little pieces, make a good puff-paste crust, lay it into your dish, then lay in your meat, strew on it some stoned raisins and currans clean washed, and some sugar; then lay on it some forced-meat balls made sweet, and in the summer some artichoke-bottoms boiled, and scalded grapes in the winter.
"in 1943 ike sewell, a liquor-company executive and former  all-american guard from wills point, tex., and ric riccardo sr., an artist,  seaman, apache dancer, and tavernkeeper born in biella, italy, decided to team  up and open a mexican restaurant in chicago.
its most typical application is in the making of small round buns (as  used for profiteroles) known in french as choux, literally cabbages, from their  shape--hence pate a choux, the pastry used for making them.
natchitoches meat pies 3 tablespoons bacon fat or corn oil 3/4 cup finely chopped onion 1 1/2 teaspoon finely minced garlic 1/2 pound ground lean beef 3/4  pound ground lean pork 1 cup finely chopped scallions 1/3 cup finely  chopped parsley salt to taste, if desired freshly ground pepper to  taste 2 teaspoons finely chopped hot red or green pepper or use tabasco  souace or cayenne pepper to taste corn, peanut or vegetable oil for deep  frying 1.
but there'll be no harm done if you want to make this pie the night before.
the year before, two companies rolled out new frozen pie crust products.
[prospect books] 2003 (p. 25-40) "choux pastry is a thick batter made from flour, milk, butter, and  eggs.
---encyclopedia of american food and drink, john f. mariani [lebhar-friedman:new york] 1999 (p. 182)
beat in water and salt.
at  that time there was some doubt whether these pizzas were to be used as shingles  or munched.
"the pizza...first made its appearance in chicago around 1912.
the raised  pie recipe referred to above (p. 785+) is too long to transcribe.
fill the shell generously full and with a spatula pyramid to the center of the pie, making the center higher than the sides.
we received dozens of replies from readers.
by the mid-1950s, thanks to the popularity  of spaghetti and tomato sauce, a taste for a white farinaceous base slathered  in thick and salty tomato sauce had become an integral part of the american  palate.
" ---oxford companion to food, alan  davidson [oxford university press:oxford] 2nd edition, 2007(p.
another article from 1971, describing the meeting of the north american pizza association, clearly indicates home pizza delivery was a long established and popular activity.
it was regarded as an ideal family food, equally acceptable to all ages and both sexes.
theoxford english dictionary traces the term "eclair" in the english language to 1861 "vanity fair [magazine]2 feb 50/1 a waiter, whereon, stood..a plate of macaroons, eclairs and sponge cake."
when done, cover with meringue made of the remaining whites well beaten with five tablespoonfuls of pulverized sugar, and flavored with vanilla.
the practice of encasing sweet or savory minced contents in pastry  (aka"pie" dates to medieval times.
the determined mr. field devoted days to making lemon meringue pie after another until he eliminated the "weeping" common to meringues that sit around on counter; his trick was to use a little calcium phosphate powder, a food-grade phosphate product available in drugstores and suggested by dr. buck.
to safeguard the distinction, many pennsylvania dutch use the term boi, from english pie; for any sort of meat pie, hence hinkelboi...
is not only delicious, but is capable of being made a 'real state pie,' as an enthusiastic admirer said.
can frozen limeade 1/4 teaspoon vanilla 3 or 4 drops green coloring combine crumbs and butter; reserve 1/4 cup of mixture and press remaining mixture and sides of buttered refrigerator tray and chill.
the food industry oohed and aahed; the business press buzzed; grocers waited  expectantly.
fold the pie crust and set it in the ice box until time to serve.
[1960s] "de luxe pecan pie (a traditional southern favorite) 2 eggs, slightly beaten 1 cup karo syrup, blue label 1/8 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon vanilla 1 cup sugar 2 tablespoons melted butter or margarine 1 cup pecans, whole or chopped 1
spread pecan halves in unbaked pie shell.
well dry the flour, mince the suet, and put these with the butter into a saucepan, to be made hot, and add a little salt.
" ---"turnovers: a dish with an international heritage, craig claiborne,new york times, may 5, 1982 (p. c8) pasties these traditional welsh meat-filled pies often served as a miner's lunch.
[prospect books:devon] 1995 (p. 98)
lisa van riper, spokeswoman for kraft general foods, said the company's well-advertised recipe for amazing coconut pie, "was developed as a result of a creative adaptation of the bisquick impossible pies.
my family was sharecroppers,' said lasyone, who started lasyone's meat pie kitchen with a one-eyed gas stove and a single iron pot.
" --- ibid (p. 182) usa recipes 19th century american recipes, courtesy of michigan state university's feeding america digital cookbook project (search recipe name: timbale): vinegar pie from pioneer times through wwii, vinegar was a handy substitute for lemons.
but most frisbee historians agree that the modern era began after world war ii when the clientele of the now-defunct frisbie baking co. of bridgeport conn., found that the tin plates holding mother frisbie's pies were great for soaring.
"do you realize," continued mr. decker, "that the pizza has made terrific infroads on the hot dog market?
for we just peered into the refrigerator and mother is baking a pie!
in the new world hogs were plentiful.
[wiley:new york] 1979 (p. 148) [note:
dissolve the cornstarch in 2 tablespoons of coconut liquid if you have it, or water.
the explanation offered in favour or this is that the magpie collects a variety of things, and that it was an essential feature of early pies that they contained a variety of ingredients....
but post was slow getting country squares onto store  shelves.
they got to the supermarket frozen, rolled in waxed paper and packed in light cardboard.
" ---the british housewife: cookery books, cooking and society in  eighteenth-century britain, gilly lehmann
filling: beat egg yolks, add milk, limeade, vanilla and green coloring.
general history notes from the food historians: "there is reason to believe that [sanbusak] is the progenitor of the  empanada and calzone.
pop tarts the concept of fruit-filled pastry is thousands of  years old.
fruitcake, great bride's cake, gallette du roi are examples.
shape the 'ears' by pleating one side of each round piece of dough.
meat, or  savoury pasties, form the princial food of the agricultural classes in  cornwall; but a mixture of meat, potatoes, and turnips is more generally used  for their pasties.
cool thoroughly, then cut into wedges and serve.
in september 1964, just six months after the public unveiling of country squares, kellogg introduced pop-tarts in several test markets around the country.
1825 s. r. in hone every-day bk.
sufficient for one  dozen and a half.
heat the oil to 360 degrees.
mix it as before, make it to the shape of a pudding, and bake it; pour butter, sack and sugar over it."
in part this was because it fit so well in the culture of the times.
(despite the striking similarity, there does not appear to be any direct etymologial link with italian pizza.)
chill the pie thorougly.
one day, just as she stepped into the dining room, marie tatin dropped the pan.
this book also offered "american" recipes for indian pudding, mush, buck-wheat cakes, pumpkin pie, dough nuts, sausages, blood puddings, cranberry tarts, pickled peppers, pickled beets, peach sweetmeats,, quince sweetmeats, green gage sweetmeats, maple sugar, maple molasses, maple beer, "famous" thieves vinegar, spruce beer, eel pie, pork pie, raised pork pie, bath pudding, short gingerbread, waffles & crullers.
this is normally the base for various toppings, and it is safe to assume that since early classical times people in the general region of the mediterranean were at least sometimes putting a topping on their flat breads [ie foccacia]...the word pizza itself was used as early as the year 997 ad in gaeta, a port between naples and rome...
the ingredients are quite similar to those of neighboring italy.
if fresh, about half a teaspoonful would be enough to flavour the above for most people.
in most cases it referred to a casserole dish topped with a pastry crust rather than to a mixture of ingredients baked in a pastry crust, so that the casserole could easily be hung above the fire or set on a grid to be baked by indirect heat.
about eclairs the food history encyclopedias (including the larousse gastronomique) and reference books all describe eclairs but provide little if any details regarding their origin.
its origins go back to the 16th century; in nancy, where it is a specialty, its local name is feouse.
the tomato is a new world food and was  first introduced to europe by returning spanish and portuguese explorers in the  16th century.
one of the most popular foods made with this kind of dough isbaklava.
the earliest reference we find for frozen pie crust, as a stand-alone consumer retail product, appears in the mid-1950s.
[note: this book also instructs  the reader to refer to recipes for fruit pasties.]
put some ice water in bottom of double boiler and set the top part into it.
he painted out the cockfights and bullfights and left to vacation in italy.
lombardi's was by most accounts the first new york pizzeria, and mr. lombardi,  who hired and trained a series of other immigrants, became the sturdy tap root  of a tree of family and acquaintances that would go on to define great new york  pizza.
put in the mixture, and bake it about half an hour in a moderate oven.
in fact, mixtures of beaten egg white and sugar cooked in a slow oven had been popular since the early seventeenth century (they were called "italian biscuit"), and it was the great increase in the proportion of egg white which marked the inception of the superlight meringue towards the end of the century.
italian meringue made with cooked sugar whisk 8 egg whites until very stiff whilst 500 g (1 lb 2 oz) sugar is cooking to the hard ball stage.
presumably there is a connection.
[tn] on june 4, 1954 and published december 6, 1955.
"...popular abruzzi dishes are...
e. de salvi, president of pizza-pro corp. of chicago, who  claims to do 95% of the frozen pizza business in the windy city, is now trying  to line up distributors in st. louis, nashville, rockford, indianapolis and  surrounding points.
the stromboli is a  specialty of philadelphia, though similar to an italian confection called the  calzone...
a headnote to the eggnog chiffon pie recipe inwoman's day old fashioned desserts (1978) says that "chiffon pies were invented in 1921 by a professional baker who lived in iowa.
by the 19th century, lemon cakes were standard fare in american cookbooks.
essentially that source was the bisquick impossible pie.
put it into an oven, and bake it till the meat is thoroughly warmed, and the potatoes brown.
try this texas favorite" 3 eggs, slightly beaten 1/8 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon vanilla 1 cup sugar 2/3 cup pecan meats, coarsely chopped mix together all ingredients, adding nut meats last.
" mrs. beeton's book of household management, isabella beeton [1875] "pork pies.--pork pies are generally made of the  trimming taken from a hog when it is cut up.
another early written recipe for sanbusaq appears in the  thirteenth-century cookbook attributed to ibn al-adim (d. 1262, the kitab  al-wusla ila l-habib fir wasfi al-tayyibat wat-tib, where it is described as a  small half-moon of puff pastry stuffed with cheese, chopped meat, or  qaymaq...
its taste hardly departed  from the tried and true, yet its form could be readily accomodated to the era's  newer, more casual way of eating: children's parties and snacking in front of  the television set.
crust: make crust in ice cube trays.
on page 135 appears this recipe attributed to magdelena hoch keim of lobachsville, pennsylvania.
but the pizza remained a local delicacy until the concept crossed the  atlantic in the memories of immigrants from naples who settled in the cities  along the eastern seaboard, especially in new york city.
can eagle brand condensed milk 1 16-oz.
"betty winton says: now you can make perfect pies
upside-down desserts were all the *rage* in the early years of the 20th century.
remove the pie from the freezer no more than 5 minutes before serving.
[cambridge university press:cambridge] 2000, volume two (p. 1831) "pecan.
countries sharing common borders likewise share similar dishes, ingredients, and flavors.
crumb shells can be made of dry, crisp cereals, vanilla wafers, graham crackers or dry cake crumbs.
orange refrigerator pie first soak 1 1/2 tablespoons gelatin in 3 tablespoons cold water.
in poland, pierogi are more like ravioli; in russia they are more like pie.
think lemon chess pie and lemonade.
kellogg's pop tarts descend from the venerable culinary tradition of  personal-sizedportable pies.
there you can wath tom granato, for  sixteen years the proprietor of chicago's only pizzeria, concoct the delicacy  and carefully deposit it in his big brick oven slipping it off long handled  shovels of well sandpapered wood onto the hot bricks.
the bottom of each crust is pierced with holes to allow the heat to penetrate and crisp the batter.
countries sharing common borders  likewise share similar dishes, ingredients, and flavors.
this usa patent. was filed by billie hamilton armstrong
filling should appear slightly less set in center.
mould the rest with both hands into the shape of a cone, and make the sides smooth and firm.
then turn in the fruit mixture.
robert may'saccomplist cook
this is not an advantage to be scoffed at; microwave a pop-tart and it resembles nuclear waste.
seethe them all with sugar, cinnamon and ginger, cloves and mace.
a rim of crust was left  around the bread to serve as a kind of handle..." ---the pizza  book: everything there is to know about the world's greatest pie, evelyn  slomon [times books:new york] 1984 (p. 3) note this book has much  more information on the the history of pizza...ask your librarian to help you  find a copy or obtain reprints of pages 3-13.
" ---food in early modern europe,
chill the tart for several hours.
one has no topping, one whipped cream, and one meringue."
work into crumbs with your hands.
it was inexpensive, domestically made & easily transported.
it was  introduced by a man who went around with a pizza filled basket on his head...
" --- the oxford companion to food, alan davidson [oxford university press:oxford] (p. 602-3) american pies "as a favored dish of the english, pies were baked in america as soon as the early settlers set up housekeeping on dry land.
slice and cube  the pork, them put in a layer.
some medieval recipes for members of the curcurbit family (gourds, calabash, cucumbers, melons) are more palatable to contemporary tastes if you make them with pumpkin.
post seems to  have been more confused.
the first recorded instance of pecan cultivation is said to have been when thomas jefferson carried the trees from the mississippi and gave them to george washington.
but judges by cu's test of 41 products, it isn't apt to be very good.
1 lb parboiled potatoes.
they make delicious desserts.
cheshire pork pie cheshire pork pie descends from the long and venerable line of english meat pies.
although it is not a fashionable pie for company, it is very excellent for family use, with cold sweet milk."
it does, however, confirm the propularity of this dessert in the time frame established by the food historians: "grasshopper pie crumb shell: 1 1/4 cups chocolate wafer crumbs 1/4 cup sugar 1/3 cup melted butter 1.
the oranges that reached england in those days were always bitter, of the type of the seville orange.
creamy recipes combining orange vegetables with sweeteners, spice and cream were known in medieval europe.
as soon as the pie is hot through and brown, it should be served.
minced meat pies were favored during the tudor years.
" ---"petritz family treats now shared by millions,"los angeles times, october 16, 1980 (p. s8)
top with the crumb mixture.
but even the college's official version is disputed by one of the middlebury students, who said he had participated in the fateful event.
it's name is generally taken to be an allusion to the fact that it is so attractive to flies that they have to be constantly shooed away from it, but the fact that it originated as a pennsylvania-dutch specialty suggests the possibility that shoofly is an alteration of an unidentified german word.
then beat with rotary beater with rotary beater.
[prospect books:devon] 1994 (p. 232) [1747] "to make a very fine sweet lamb or veal pye.
[charles scribner's sons:new york] 1937 (p. 653) [1946] "gelatine chiffon cream pies the following rules are for baked pie shell or crumb crusts filled with gelatin mixtures and cream.
and sometimes no gelatin.
the word originated in french as a diminutive form of profit, and so etymologically means 'small gains'--and indeed it may to begin with have denoted a 'little something extra' cooked long with the master's main dish as a part of the servants' perks.
despite world war ii sugar shortages, chiffon pies surged into popularity during '40s, driven perhaps by the joy of cooking, which devoted a special section to them.
pumpkin pie & carrot cake.
by the time [eliza] smith was writing, they had a long an honourable past, and were thus less susceptible to foreign influences than the made dishes at which the french were held to excel.
" ---"something's cooking," denton record-chronicle [tx], june 24, 1971 (p. 13) sawdust piesawdust pie
it is a favorite of the american south, as are pralines and other pecan infused foods.
"lemon meringue pie has been around a long time in the south and most likely grew out of the vast repertoire of puddings, whose popularity pies eclipsed in the late nineteenth century.
combine one cup sugar and pecans.
" ---"grasshoppers for the table,"new york times, march 27, 1904 (p. sm8) the earliest nyt recipe for grasshopper pie, as we americans know it today, was published in 1963.
later in the book she gives  instructions for a cheshire pork pie to be made at sea, with salt pork, and  potatoes instead of apples; and this pie is clearly a double crust pie made in  a dish.
" ---encyclopedia of american food and drink, john f. mariani [lebhar-friedman:new york] 1999 (p. 182) elizabeth coane goodfellow (1767-1851) is credited for introducing lemon meringue pie to america in her philadelphia shops [the larder invaded: reflections on three centuries of philadelphia food and drink, mary anne hines, gordon marshall & william woys weaver, historical society of philadelphia, philadelphia 1987 (p. 66)
when ready, throw the nuts into boiling milk, and let them boil while you are preparing a rich custard.
this states sweet of itself, and something like ginger biscuits.
by beating egg whites with a fruit-flavored syrup until the mixture was light and fluffy, he achieved a filling that his mother said looked like a pie of "chiffon."
one hazards a guess that it originated independently of queen catherine's popelin, or that it derived from an earlier common source...
these spicy turnover were once referred to as hot-ta-meat pies, but now they're simply called natchitoches meat pies.
bake pie shell for 10 minutes at 350 degrees f. do not brown.
savvy food manufacturers discovered that powdered egg whites, cream cheese, whipped toppings, and marshmallow cream could double nicely for raw egg whites.
when marie carried the newly invented upside-down tart into the dining room, it we recieved with acclamation.
if you need extensive historic research materials on ny pizza (or other ny  foods) contact these organizations: the new york public library extensive culinary history collection, esp.
because it lacks gobs of cheese congealing on top, it retains its appeal even  when cool.
" ---"midwestern big 'apple'," william rice, washington post, september 9, 1976 (p. f2) [note:
the crust of thick- or double-crust pizza, also called "west coast" style, serves as a foundation for a larger number of toppings...
my research tells me that these fluffy unbaked pies debuted in the early 1920s as "souffle" or "gelatin" pies.
boil and peel some sweet potatoes, and when they are cold, weigh a quarter of a pound.
[prospect books:devon] 2000 (p. 244) 18th century cookbooks often contained recipes for puddings that would be classed today as tarts: " an orange pudding.
[1957] "frozen pizza crust ready for you to top with  anything that pelases the whimsey or taste of your family, is the newest twist  in the pizza craze.
the frisbee pie company was its name, and somewhere between 1871 (when william r. frisbie started the business) and 1920 (when somebody saw the fun in tossing the empty tins), frisbee started on its way to becoming one of america's rare native sports.
the name of this mint-chocolate pie corms from the after-dinner drink, which is made by shaking 1/2 ounce cream, 1/2 ounce white creme de cacao, and 1 ounce creme de methe together with ice cubes, then straining.
the pecans must be very carefully hulled, and the meat thoroughly freed from any bark or husk.
stir in: 4 lightly beaten egg yolks, 1/2 cup sugar chill these ingredients until they are about to set.
" ---oxford encyclopedia of food and drink in america, andrew f. smith editor
according to the food historians the introduction of pizza to new york city is attributed to gennaro lombardi when he opened up his pizzeria at 53 1/2 spring street in 1905.
within a few months, it was being copied all over the sologne region.
" ---"vive la pizza: an italiam classic gets a french  makover," mark bittman,new york times, sept. 23, 1998 (p. f1) first pizza delivery?
claudia roden...quotes a poem by  ishiq ibn ibrahim al-mausili (9th century) praising sanbusaj...
" ---oxford companion to food, alan davidson [oxford university press:oxford] 1999 (p. 449)
many places are known for this particular pie.
our survey  of historic newspapers confirms stromboli piqued the palates of mainstream  america in the 1990s.
it the grotto is a $.75  snack--the famous pizza tichinese, somewhat similar to the pizzas of southern  italy.
in  india triangular and cone-shaped samosas are popular.
carol greiltzer, a new york city councilwoman, does it at every opportunity....
mr. bucci's patent can be viewedonline.]
in fact, the pizzas of france and  italy, despite having different tendencies in herbs and cheese, have more in  common with each other than they do with most of those produced here...
optional items such as cheese trips are added and the whole is then  frozen.
these  are served with drawn butter, meat gravy, or sour cream.
a ragoo is to be made..with which the  potage is to be garnish'd, the profitrolle-loaf being laid in the middle.
"artistically considered, the ornamental earthenware of the dutch potteries follows the lines of earliest known european potteries, and its 'slip-decoration' or 'sgraffito' which was developed in southern europe, particularly in engalnd and in italy.
the learned authors of the ile-de-france volume listed under ipcf (1993) explain why they regard the matter as an unsolved mystery.
both recipes are generally considered "food of the people," as they are traditionally inexpensive and filling.
there was no time to bake another.
there you can wath tom granato, for sixteen years the proprietor of chicago's only pizzeria, concoct the delicacy and carefully deposit it in his big brick oven slipping it off long handled shovels of well sandpapered wood onto the hot bricks.
measure liquid and stir into the saucepan.
"if ike was the godfather of deep dish pizza, she was the godmother," wirtz said.
of course, most recipes exist long before they appear in print.
consumable products (p.  309-310) [note: this book contains a list of sources for further study.]
we know the two "generals" took a basic formula and then developed variations to showcase their respective products.
pare and  quarter apples, and boil them in sugar and water, and a stick of cinnamon, and  when tender, put in a little white wine, the juice of a lemon, a piece of fresh  butter, and a little ambergrease or orange-flower water; stir all together, and  when it is cold put it in puff-paste, and fry them>" --- the  complete housewife: or accomplish'd gentlewoman's companion, e. smith,  facsimile reprint of 1753 edition [literary services and production  ltd.:london] 1968 (p. 154) [1792] "apple puffs.
technically, a proper german pastete must have an upper crust; otherwise, to the pennsylvania dutch, it would fall into the category of a tart of kuche, like pumpkin pie.
once  the pasties were established in this country, it did not take long for the  non-welsh of the region to take to them with relish and add a distinctly  american touch..." ---craig claiborne's the new york times food  encyclopedia, joan whitman compiler
if you have the opportunity to taste one of these special lemons, go for it!
sanbusak,an arabic word that comes from  the persian sanbusa, means anything triangular, was first described as a  stuffed pastry in the early ninth century by isaq ibn ibrahim (d. 851), a  well-known author from iraq.
1880 ouida moths i. 25 eating her last morsel of a truffled timbale.
you may make a lemon pudding the same way but putting in a lemon instead of the orange.
this pie today, is made in a crumb shell, which is much easier.
however, we can find several receipts recognizable as choux paste in the german cook sabina welserin's manuscript of 1553.
according to present practice, richard briggs [w. spotswood, r.  campbell, and b. johnson:philadelphia] 1792 (p. 382) [1841] "puffs.--roll out puff paste nearly a quarter of  an inch thick, and, with a small saucer, or tin cutter of that size, cut it  into round pieces; place upon one side raspberry or strawberry jam, or any sort  of preserved fruit, or stewed apples; wet the edges, fold over the other side,  and press it round with the finger and thumb.
both recipes are generally considered "food of the people," as  they are traditionally inexpensive and filling.
( food and drink in britain: from the stone age to the 19th century, c. anne wilson, page 273).
[routledge:london] 1996 (p. 157) "it has been argued that the italians did not "invent"  pizza.
it can be eaten hot or cold...pissalat.
first grease a deep baking dish with some of the melted fat from the tin.
it can be  eaten hot or cold...pissalat.
according to the book rare bits, unusual origins of popular recipes, by patricia bunning stevens (p. 262) shoofly pie was created when "the pie-loving pennsylvania dutch ...found themselves short of baking supplies in the late winter and early spring...all that was left in the pantry were flour, lard, and molasses.
in fact, i could if no cookbooks printing pecan pie recipes before the early twentieth century.
aboutmince and mincemeat pies.
---"it all started with pie tins in the air,"new york times, july 9, 1989 (p. 31) food historians generally agree gateau saint honore belongs to paris (because st. honore is the patron saint of patisserie and has a street name in paris after him), but are collectively vague regarding the period.
they were similar to yams ("old world" foods) and quickly incorporated into the local cuisine.
tracing early cookery  receipts is beset with difficulties, not least because authors heedlessly  repeat foundation-myth andedotes.
fold white and limeade mixture together.
" ---encyclopedia of american food and drink, john f. mariani [lebhar-friedman:new york] 1999 (p. 318)
a 1655 recipe for cream with snow suggested a cleft stick, or a bundle of reeds tied together and roll between your hands standing upright in your cream....at the turn of the [17th] century a still lighter creation was introduced from france, in which the proportion of frothed egg white to sugar was greatly increased.
spread above mixture into pan but do not spread too close to rim of pan.
if a mould is not to be used, cut off as much apstry as will make the cover, and wrap it in a cloth to keep warm.
stephenson's recipes are in great demand.
sanbusak are possible, although not as likely, the origin of the turkish borek and therefore the origin, too, of the savory pastries, the tunisian brik, algerian burak, moroccan briwat, and the armenian beoreg, as well as spanish, greek, italian, and sicilian versions.
bake in a moderate oven one hour, serve in the same dish.
---encyclopedia of american food and drink, john f. mariani [lebhar-friedman:new york] 1999 (p. 184) here are the 1949 recipes referenced above: "key lime pie 4 eggs 1 can condensed milk 1/2 cup lime juice break eggs in bowl and beat lightly.
" "key lime ice box pie 1/3 cold water 1/2 tablespoon gelatine 4 eggs 3 tablespoons lime juice or more.
" ---siren feasts: a history of food  and gastronomy in greece, andrew dalby
a new variety, as large as grape fruit and sweet enough to eat without sugar, has been developed by growers in porto rico, it is reported.
first use in commerce: 19640714 mark drawing code (1) typed drawing serial number 72198180
early pizza prices are extremely difficult to research.
with huge  revenue from its cereals at its disposal, kellogg was sponsoring a whole zoo of  kids' shows, includng yogi bear, woody woodpecker, huckleberry hound, atom ant,  bugs bunny, mighty mouse and secret squirrel.
however, not having their own term for meat pies, the germans borrowed pastete from the french as early as the fourteenth century.
natchitoches meat pies pastry for deep-fried turnovers 3 tablespoons bacon fat or corn oil 3/4 cup finely chopped onion 1 1/2 teaspoon finely minced garlic 1/2 pound ground lean beef 3/4 pound ground lean pork 1 cup finely chopped scallions 1/3 cup finely chopped parsley salt to taste, if desired freshly ground pepper to taste 2 teaspoons finely chopped hot red or green pepper or use tabasco souace or cayenne pepper to taste corn, peanut or vegetable oil for deep frying 1.
she should bear in mind that it must not be allowed to get cold, or it will  fall immediately: to prevent this, the operation should be performed as near  the fire as possible.
plum cobbler [note: the end of this recipe references peaches, both canned and fresh.] according to the records of the us patent & trademark office, wham-o introduced its iconic frisbee flying disc june 17, 1957.
---food and drink in britain: from the stone age to the 19th century, c. anne wilson [academy chicago:chicago] 1991 (p. 325-6) about oranges in england
a dish, often with pasta or rice, made in a form and unmolded.
that queen of pies, the grasshopper.
we don't have ready access to this volume, but your librarian may be able to locate/borrow a copy.]
by the thirteenth century, sanbusak appears in spain, almost as the same recipe, a triangular fried pastry.
bake in a buttered dish, and eat cold."
it was baked by men called pizzaioli, who worked in  small shops called laboratori.
why a savory palmier?
chocolate (as a glaze or filling) was an 18th century addition.
the second good housekeeping recipe, pineapple gelatin pie, contains gelatin and heavy cream...but no egg whites.
like col. sanders and others who found a recipe for success, lasyone is tight-lipped about exactly what goes into his product.
both squash and pumpkin were baked, usually by being placed whole in the ashes or embers of a dying fire (in the case of squash, the acorn and butternut varieties were preferred) and they were moistened afterwards wtih some form of animal fat, or maple syrup, or honey; and both were also made into soup.
[1931] "an innovation in cookery, which offsets every possibility of failure and offers a light, dainty, fluffy dessert, fit to be set before the most fastidious taste, is the sunshine ice box pie.
this  can be either savoury or sweet, but by far the commonest manifestation of the  profiterole is with a cream filling and a covering of chocolate sauce, and  piled in large quanitities, in the more ambitious type of restaurant, into a  sort of pyramid.
top each serving with generous dollop of whipped cream and several banana slices.
empanadas empanadas are considered part of the gastronomic  history of spanish galicia.
" ---oxford companion to food , alan davidson [oxford university press:oxford] 1999 (p. 785) "tart...in america, the word tart tends to indicate a small individual open pastry case with a sweet, usually fruit filling.
yet ann amernick, who has held pastry chef positions with michel richard and white house pastry chef roland mesnier, chose to include, amid her eclectic assortment of pastries, a rendition laced not with sugar but a sharp, salty blend of parmigiano-reggiano and aged dutch gouda cheeses.
the potatoes must be nicely cooked and mashed while hot...
it wasn't until american soldiers returned from wwii that pizza became a national phenomenon.
almost daily some imaginatie and enterprising woman phones to ask why her gelatin will not congeal, after hs she has put fresh pineapple in it.
having made your crust, lay a layer of butter in the bottom, and having boiled your potatoes tender, lay them in, and upon them may marrow, yoks of hard eggs, whole spice, blanched almonds, dates, pistachoes, orange, lemon, and citron -peel candy'd; then lay in a layer of butter over all, close up your pye, bake it; and when it comes out of the oven, cut up the lid, and pour in melted butter, sutagr, wine, and the yolks of eggs.
[oxford university press:oxford] 1999 (p. 611)
press around the edges with the tines of a fork to seal well.
stir the sugar and butter to a cream.
french palmiers & funnel cakes.
reesman insists country squares were superior, but he says, "we  could see the handwriting on the wall."
pie crusts prepared from dough made by her method, which is protected by patent 2,726,156, "have uniformly superiour characteristics," mrs. hamilton says, "combining the essential factors for exceptional flakiness and delactable taste.
lay them in watter 2 days shifing them often in a day, for 2 days and one night, civell orenges so pyle them in a suger and lay them in patty pans making the crust of puff past, sprinkell suger on every row, laying not too much watter, but as they presarve them, for the syrup that is left you may put it in the pyes and use less suger--" ---penn family recipes: cooking recipes of willaim penn's wife, gulielma, edited by evelyn abraham benson
" ---oxford companion to food, alan davidson [oxford university press:oxford] 1999 (p. 333) [note:
the following version is based on a method worked out in the 1960s by the late michael field in collaboration with dr. paul buck, a food scientist at cornell university.
let it rest for 1 hour.
northern europeans generally had to import lemons, but eventually a way to grow them indoors was devised.
melt butter and let it continue cooking until it starts to brown, then add it to the custard mixture and pour it all over the bacon and cheese.
[mccurdy printing company:nova scotia] tenth printing may 1977 (p.  164) portable pies (a random global history): italian calzones,  spanish empanadas, louisiana natchitoches, cornish pasties, polish-russian  pierogi, kellogg's pop tarts, middle-eastern/indian sanbusaq (aka samosa),  italian-american stromboli & english turnovers.
then the confectioners make up grasshoppers with sugar, chocolate trimmings, and colored candies in such a way a very nice tasting piece of confectionery is obtained.
" ---"ike  and ric: they were the first with the thickest,"chicago tribune,  august 1, 1976 (p. g16)
bring to boil and cook about 5 minutes.
fold egg whites into lime mixture.
tracing early cookery receipts is beset with difficulties, not least because authors heedlessly repeat foundation-myth andedotes.
[three mountaineers::asheville nc] 1938 (p. 38) [1941] "surprise the folks with karo
the crust is rich and sweet--a yeasted dough made with butter and sugar,  and rolled nearly flat.
pizza-type foods are  popular throughout the mediterranean region.
quiches used to be made from bread dough, but now shortcrust or puff pastry is used.
place on greased baking sheets.
the ultimate flexible food application.
sprinkle over flour mixture, a tablespoonful at a time, mixing in with a fork.
---the joy of cooking, irma s. rombaurer, facsimile 1931 edition [scribner:new york] 1998 (p. 217)
it had a crust  two fingers thick and a generous layer of seasoned tomato puree that was dusted  with grated romano cheese just before it went into the oven...chicago-style  deep-dish pizza came into being in 1943 when two savvy entrepreneurs, ike  sewell and ric riccardo, opened pizzeria uno on the corner of wabash and ohio.
a grasshopper pie is made with green creme de menthe, white creme de cacao and cream.
await applause modestly.
roll up, starting with the 16-inch side.
1859, american english, but perhaps ultimately related to, or even developed from unrecorded use of cobeler, n. 1385, a kind of wooden bowl or dish."
some have special names.
then it goes on to urge the reader to be "devil-may-care.
"yams existed at least as far back as the beginning of the jurassic era, when dinosaurs had not yet been succeeded by mammals and s. america and asia were still joined.
" ---"favorite recipe," the democrat-american [sallisaw ok], february 19, 1931 (p. 3) [1938] "white house pecan pie 1 cup unbroken pecan meats 1 cup dark table syrup 2 tablespoons butter 2 eggs 1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla cream the butter and sugar, add the table syrup, the beaten eggs, the pecans and vanilla.
pecan pie tonight...it's wonderful!
this mixture was mainly baked in the form of thin round cakes and in the form doughnuts and fritters...
"timballo di riso is very simply made, with butter stirred carefully into the rice until each grain is glistening, the timbale then being served with meat, fish, or vegetable sauce."
line a pie tin with rich crust, fill with the mixture and bake until done.
book contains recipe, no date.]
either will provide a hot, cheap meal in a short time.
when it is minced season it with pepper, cinnamon, ginger, cloves, mace, prunes, currants, dates and raisins, and hard eggs, boiled and chopped very small, and throw them on top.
, it  was arguably worse in 1964, when the word "square" was widely used to  mean "nerdy."
[1957] "frozen pizza crust ready for you to top with anything that pelases the whimsey or taste of your family, is the newest twist in the pizza craze.
this was known as pissala (presumably a derivative of latin piscis, 'fish'),  and gave its name to the pissaladiere.
deep dish, or  "chicago style," pizza originated at pizzeria uno...in  1943...
in st. louis, mr. de salvi  found a local tavern owner who was freezing the italian specialty during slack  times at the bar.
a ball holds no mystery, they contend, has a slavish attachment to the earth and falls quickly if missed in the initial attempt to catch it.
he said that his delivery men had wrecked six cars in the last six years and that his insurance had been cancelled.
if this  is true, then the calzone, not to mention the empanada, is related to the old  fried pastry of the medieval arab world, sanbusak....sanbusak, an arabic word  that comes from persian sanbusa, meaning anything triangular, which was first  described as a stuffed pastry in the early ninth century by ishaq ibn  ibrahim...a well-known author from iraq.
[note: this book has much more information on the history of lemons than can be paraphrased here.
tarts food historians tell us tarts were introduced in medieval times.
the nomenclature of of  cookery is complicated not only by difficulties in establish early usage, but  also by the lack of conformity of usage, not helped by the idiosyncrasies of  early-modern spelling.
though mass production is no friend to the palmier because the slicing and sprinkling go largely unpoliced, a notable exception is the downtown washington location of fresh fields/whole foods market, whose elephant ears put most palmiers to shame.
the original pies were made with a pastry crust, but a crust made from graham crackers later became popular and today is a matter of preference, as is the choice between whipped cream and meringue toppings.
our survey of historic newspaper & magazine articles suggest desserts named "sawdust pie" (a super sugary concoction featuring pecans, coconut & egg white meringue) bubble up in the deep south/texas in late 1990s.
have ready against it comes out of the oven a caudle [thick drink] made thus: take a pint of white wine, and mix in the yolks of three eggs, stir it well together over the fire, one way, all the time till it is thick; then take it off, stir in sugar enough to sweeten it, and squeeze in the juice of a lemon; pour it hot into your pye, and close it up again.
"" ---oxford encyclopedia of food and  drink in america, andrew f. smith editor
the vintage recipe calls for separated eggs in the filling, which makes it more involved but airier in texture.
the natives usually sweetend the grasshopeer more by using a sprinkling of brown sugar.
[e.p. walton and sons:montpelier vt] 1845 (p. 56) [1877] chicken pot pie, buckeye cookery,
add three tablespoons flour.
combine sugars and cinamon.
unbaked 9-inch pastry shell mix eggs, karo syrup, salt, vanilla, sugar and butter.
certainly the idea of cooking a paste of flour, butter and liquid and then adding eggs to produce a small puffed pastry cake was known to some french cooks at the start of the seventeenth century...
the nuns of lima had a great reputation after the sixteenth century, and chocolate owes a great deal to the convents.
pizza was certainly known to  chicago for several decades before the sewell's opened shop.
prices of lemons had been steadily advancing for over a week, until an advance of $1 per box was reached, and a story was started that a storm in the mediterranean had shaken down a very large number of lemons from the trees at messina, and that consequently there was a scarcity of that fruit, as the shaken lemons had rotted on the ground.
recommended reading: "small sweet cakes eaten by the ancient egyptians may well have included types using pastry.
finally, these cultivars are important as case studies the diffusion of plant species as they moved around the world through contacts between different human populations..." ---cambridge world history of food, kenneth f. kiple and kriemhild conee
there is some speculation, based on the fact that chicago-style pizza is thickly-topped and sometimes served in square pans, that the recipe was influenced by sicilian cuisine.
california or "gourmet" pizza originated in 1980 at chez
this recipe was sent to us by lanceine frizzel of claremont, n.h. "elephant ears 3 egg yolks 1 whole egg 6 tablespoons cold water 1 teaspoon salt 2 cups flour confectioners' sugar beat eggs until fluffy.
remove the beaten egg whites from the cake machine bowl and place them in a round-bottom mixing bowl.
" ---bamburger's cook book, mabel claire
what they do is fly frisbees, and they have lots of company.
the lemon can be successfully grown in florida and california--products which are receiving great attention.
athough ubiquitous throughout france, the proper palmier is hard to find here.
kellogg appreciated that kids were the primary target audience for pop-tarts because they had yet to establish breakfast habits of their own.
they were also quite popular in medieval europe.
[the 2008 online oxford english dictionary confirms the earliest englis print reference for meringue dates to 1706: 1.
of meat allow 1 oz. of salt, 21/4 oz. of pepper, a small quantity of cayenne, 1 pint of water.
dresser en timbale in modern culinary parlance often means to heap the food on a platter in a pyramid shape, usually garnished.
the twelfth-century  dietetic manual, the liber de ferculis et condimentis, which was translated  from the arabic...
pictures of  pop tart boxes from the 1960s & 1970s/courtesy  of dan goodsell's imaginary world (scroll down).
these cheese-based pastes can be traced back  to at least the thirteenth century where similar receipts for fritters appear  in anonymous andalusian cookbooks...
the recipe combines potatoes with the brains of cock robins, among other ingredients, making it clear to elizabethans that it was a dish with aphrodesiac possibilities.
[1828] "dry meringues.
it is garnished with choux pastry puffs, and choux pastry is also used in making eclairs and choux a la creme, and a kind of chocolate eclair known as the religieuse (nun), though no one knows why.
bluestein longone [dover publications:mineola ny] 1996 (p. 85)
paducah ky] (p. 267-8) a peach pot-pie a peach pot pie, or cobler, as it is often termed, should be made of clingstone peaches, that are very ripe, and then pared and sliced from the stones.
the cooks  closest to french culinary practice removed the sugar entirely...e. smith gave  pies with chicken and with lamb in both savoury and sweet versions, but allowed  the confustion of flavours to persist in her vegetable and mince pies--in other  words, those where the sweet-savoury association lingered the longest.
up until the 20th century, lard and suet were common  ingredients in pies and pie crusts.
it is now naturalized in the west indies and other parts of tropical america...
most are creative  iterations of existing dishes.
beat egg yolks slightly with 1/2 cup sugar, lime juice and salt.
" ---the accomplisth cook, robert may, facsimile 1685 edition
in 1955, a process for making frozen pie crust (rolled) was patented.
by 1648 the colonists in virginia were cultivating them.
the actual phrase "shepherd's pie" dates back to the 1870s, when mincing machines made the shredding of meat easy and popular."
fold in the whipped cream and turn mixture into chocolate crumb shell.
samosas are usually eaten as a snack, often as a street food.
timballo...based on pancakes, built up in layers with fillings between each two pancakes, built up in layers with filling between each two pancakes of previously fried tiny meat balls, small pieces of chicken, peas, mushrooms which have been pre-fried in butter, diced milk with beaten eggs in it, meat-and-tomato sauce, and nutmeg..."--- ibid (p. 532)
tasty rounds of a special dough blended with imported type aged cheese, spices, olives and tomatoes, little bo-pizzas are ideal for a party canape tray.
"the barnhart dictionary of etymology/barnhart adds: "a kind of pie baked in a deep dish,.
e. de salvi, president of pizza-pro corp. of chicago, who claims to do 95% of the frozen pizza business in the windy city, is now trying to line up distributors in st. louis, nashville, rockford, indianapolis and surrounding points.
fine caster sugar and 8 egg whites into a copper bowl and mix together.
boil the potatoes and peel them, rub throguh a colandar, and to every pint of potatoes take a cupful of rich milk or cream, four eggs beaten separately.
the other was general foods of white plains, n.y., marketer of angel flake processed coconut...
" ---an a-z of food and drink, john ayto
time to bake, about two hours for a pie  containing three pounds.
slip-engraving is...a treatment consisting of entirely covering the outer surface of the utensil with the slip of clay, and then etching on it the design.
top with a few crumbs.
perhaps sawdust pie is a twist on this particular southern/appalachian regional theme?
add the scallions, parsley, salt, pepper and chopped pepper.
but even in the area of pies, the distinction between  sweet and savory was beginning to operage and was visible in english texts  before 1700.
in britian, this usage survives in the particular context of jam tarts, but on the whole tart refers to a larger version of this, with jam, fruit, or custard filling, that is cut into slices for serving, or to a similar fruit-filled pastry case with a crust--in other words, a fruit pie.
<  middle french, french profiterole (although this is first attested later in the  sense relevant to sense 1: 1549; 1881 in sense 2) < profit profit n. +  -erole, diminutive suffix (extended form of -ole -ole suffix1).
casts considerable doubt on the story.
pour into 9-inch pie pan lined with your favorite pie crust.
"by the middle of the seventeenth century, pies had become a  peculiarly engish specialty; even the french were prepared to concede  superiority.
the meat should be packed in firmly, and the lid put on after the inner edges have been egged over; the edges should be crimped with the paste nippers (opage 741), and leaves put round the side and on the lid; make a hole or two, and put a centre ornament of paste or not, as preferred.
the calsones and reshteh were mixed  together, dressed with melting butter, and served with yoghurt.
" ---joy of cooking, irma s. rombauer and marion rombauer becker
plain old quiche lorraine--with cheese, of course--was still around, but it was generally considered much too boring...
sad to say, pot pies seem a relic of an age of family restaurants where a cook actually took his time to make such items--before such restaurants were conglomerated and homogenized.
if your pie is large, you must put in  a pint of white wine.
pie plates and bake at 350 deg.
add some of the hot liquid to the cornstarch to cook at the simmer 3 or 4 minutes.
heat the oil to 360  degrees.
although it is usually  spread with fromage blanc, bacon and onion before baking, there are many  variations.
[oxford university  press: delhi] 1998 (p. 224)
note: some have "lids" (top crusts); others do not.
place the yolk mixture in a double boiler, stirring constantly until the liquid is thickened and creamy.
pour into pastry shell.
today some of the most popular market varieties include "centennial," goldrush," "georgia red,"...
the company settled on a food of taste and  convenience, the toaster pastry.
when paired with "country," it seemed to  describe a food for middle-age rubes from the sticks...
in afghanistan, where the name is sambosa, and in the turkish-speaking nations, where is its called samsa...it is made both in half-moon shapes and triangles.
chill 12 hours or more.
vegetables were sometimes employed.
i do make a pecan pie that is not a confection, like the other, not as good, if one is all set for a confection, but that i consider very pleasing and definately reasonable.
mincemeat pies are closely related.
note: the proportion of whites used in the making of meringues is variable and it is posible to use as many as 12 egg whites for 500 g...of sugar.
dictionary of italian food and drink, john mariani [broadway books:new york] 1998 (p. 197) pizza in america: new york traditions & chicago-style pizza was imported to the united states by italian immigrants.
take the skin of a loin of pork, and cut it into steaks.
this is a festive dish in all three of the southern-most provinces, sometimes under the alternative name of timballo di maccheroni."---ibid
where did lemons originate?
while renaissance european cooks used whisked egg-whites in several dishes, it was not until the 17th century that they perfectedmeringue.
stir in enough additional flour to make a soft dough.
theain-i-akbari lists, among dishes of meat cooked with wheat, the qutab, 'which the people of hind call the sanbusa'.
a good pissaladiere should have a layer of onions half as thick as the  base if bread dough is used; if flan is made with shortcrust pastry (basic pie  dough), the layer of onions should be as thick as the flan pastry.
since i wrote about this pie some years ago, readers have occasionally queried its status as a raised pe.
the real mystery: where did this recipe originate?
to make the filling, separate the yolks and whites of 4 eggs.
"the first pizza delivery was in 1889, by raffaele esposito owner of the famous pizzeria pietro il pizzaiolo in naples.
the oxford english dictionary confirms the 1798 date reference  above: "5.
"fancy sunkist lemons, 29 cents dozen.
traditional global perspective "it was probably slave traders who introduced the sweet potato to africa, where it was called igname or nyam, which simply means yam'.
each wedge is  rolled from the wide crust end to its point, and the rolls are eaten end to  end.
these portable pies were introduced to the "new world"  by spanish explorers and missionaries.
the early english use of the word "pompion" (french for "pumpkin") may imply these recipes originated in france.
you may leave out the currants if you please.
these are often topped with pulverized sugar.
" ---an a to z of food and drink, john ayto [oxford university press:oxford] 2002 (p. 211)
for the filling: about 200 grams (7 ounces) of lean bacon; 50 grams (1 3/4 ouces, 3 « tablespoons) of butter; a good 1/2 liter (generous 2 cups) or ordinary cream, completely fresh; 5 medium eggs; 2 nice pinches of salt a tart pan with fluted sides about 25 centimeters (10 inches) in diameter procedure.
[oxford  university press:new york] 2004, volume 2 (p. 286) "one of the first pizza sold in the united states was baked some  fifty years ago by a 13-year-old pizzaiuolo named gennaro lombardi at 53 1/2  spring street in little italy section of new york...pizza may never replace hot  dogs as the great american "bite," but their amazing acceptance in  recent years prompts a question: why pizza and not, say, mexican enchiladas?
and  yet it was so much more.
we also find no attribute to the first person/restaurant credited for cooking/serving this cookie.
bake in hot oven (400 degrees f.) 15 minutes; reduce heat to moderate (350 degrees f.) and bake 30 to 35 minutes longer or until a silver knife inserted in center of filling comes out clean.
fifteen lemons and seven oranges, together with two hundred and thirty pomegranates and some dried fruits were brougth from a spanish ship at portsmouth in 1289 for queen eleanor...
frist pie-tin throwers.
dear knows, this is deadly enough.
pour the sugar on to the whites in a continuous thin stream whisking vigorously intil it has all been absorbed."
recipe for traditional afghani goash-e-feel (iced with nuts) here: "goash-e-feel (elephant's ear pastry)compare with this sampler of modern american elephant ear recipes makes 8 elephant's ear pastry is the literal meaning of goash-e-feel, a name given because of the shape and size of these crisp, bubbly, sweet pastries.
choux pastry is said to have been invented in 1540 by popelini, catherine de' medici's chef, but the pastrycook's art only truly began to develop in the 17th century and greatest innovator at the beginning of the 19th century was indubitably [antonin] careme...
chantilly creme (sometimes referred to as chiboust) was also "invented" in the 17th century.
ther eare many...kinds of timbale which are not filled until after the crust has been cooked...
cream the sugar and butter, stir in the beaten yolks and the lemon, and bake.
chiffon pies were very popular at that time.
when cool fill  with the following: filling 1 1/2 cups  brown sugar 1 cup water lemon juice simmer the above ingredients  until the dates are of a soft consistency.
" ---food and drink in britain: from the stone age to the 19th century, c. anne wilson [academy chicago:chicago] 1991 (p. 332-3)
once pop-tarts were in the markeplace, kellogg threw its full marketing muscle behind them.
the windy city's first pizzeria opened at 907 taylor st. in 1924: "the only place in chicago where you can buy italian pizza is at a little restaurant on taylor street near halsted.
refrigerator pies usually have crumb crusts.
just  consider their backgrounds: there are cornish pasties, which indicate the early  presence of welsh miners in michigan, the mexican-influenced empanadas and  empanaditas of the west and southwest, and the curiously named hot-ta-meat pies  of louisiana that indicate a borrowing from the spanish.
arab cookery books of the 10th and 13th centuries refer to these pastries as sanbusak (the pronunciation still current in egypt, syria, and lebanon), sanbusaq, or sanbusaj, all reflecting the early medieval form of this persian word: sanbosag.
"" ---"cold  war looms: pizza pie vs.
about condensed milk about key (mexican) limes frozen lime pie is an interation of key lime pie.
holton's pizza crusts are partly cooked, ready to brown and serve.
the amazing coconut pie recipe also forms its own crust--with the baking mix sinking to the bottom of a custard mixture--and has been used ever since 1976, according to van riper.
[mccurdy printing company:nova scotia] tenth printing may 1977 (p. 164) portable pies (a random global history): italian calzones, spanish empanadas, louisiana natchitoches, cornish pasties, polish-russian pierogi, kellogg's pop tarts, middle-eastern/indian sanbusaq (aka samosa), italian-american stromboli & english turnovers.
some folks say the "original shoofly recipe" is descended from centennial cake.
the original prototype?
the breakers' key lime pie crust: 5 tablespoons shortening 7 tablespoons cake flour 2 tablespoons sugar 1 egg 3 tablespoons milk filling: 3 egg yolks 5 ounces (10 tablespoons) lime juice 2 14-ounce cans, minus 4 tablespoons, sweetened condensed milk garnish: lightly sweetened whipped cream lime slices to make the crust: cut the shortening into the flour.
shape a loaf-size portion of dough into 15 ovals or rounds, roll out until 5 1/2 inches round and 1/8 inch thick.
the oldest recipe we have for eclairs in an american cookbook was published in 1884: "cream cakes 1 cup hot water 1/2 teaspoonful salt 1/2 cup butter 1 1/2 cup pastry flour 5 eggs, yolks and whites beaten separately boil the water, salt, and butter.
mexican fillings are highly seasoned with chilli peppers.
there are a number of household uses of lemon juice for removing rust, ink or fruit stains, polishing aluminum ware and piano keys.
most empanadas contain lots of onion and green or red pepper, in combination with meat or fish.
[ahrens publishing:new york] second edition, 1951(p. 161) [note:
compare these 18th & 19th century recipes: [1747] "a cheshire pork-pye.
her instructions are vague, but it is placed among the dish pies (raised pies start six recipe later).
the wonders of the frisbee," new york times , july 5, 1978 (p. d5) "it's one of richard burton's favorite forms of exercise.
this will take about 4 hours.
add softened gelatin, stirring until gelatin is dissolved; cool until mixture begins to thicken.
4 eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately.
like pies, they could be savoury or sweet.
add lime juice slowly mixing well.
in sixteenth- and seventeenth-century england there were other words that sometimes (but by no means always) denoted a choux paste product, including 'benets'...'puffs' and certain types of 'fritters'...
add to them half a pound of cold butter, the yolks of ten eggs, the juice of a large lemon, half the rind grated fine, work them in a marble mortar or wooden basin till they look white and light.
after the experience, you will know why.
the ball is dead, as far as frisbee freaks are concerned.
these timbales are filled before cooking with forcemeat and meats of various sorts...
legend likes to claim the first pizza  delivery took place in italy, 1889: "the first pizza delivery was in 1889, by raffaele esposito owner of  the famous pizzeria pietro il pizzaiolo in naples.
the pie is popular in the south, where it is customarily served with a cookie crust, and probably dates from the 1950s.
[oxford university press:oxford] 2002 (p. 237) "palmier.
the meat pie, after all, is nothing more than a stew or casserole in a crust, hence the infinite variations.
take a fork, and rough the surface all over, because it will brown better than if left smooth.
but it is surprising sturdy.
" --- the accomplisht cook, robert may, facsimile reprint of 1685 edition
" ---new york pizza, the real thing, makes a comeback, the  new york times, june 10, 1998, section f; page 1; column 2 (this article  includes a list of notable historic pizzarias includingtotonno's in coney  island andgrimaldi's in brooklyn.
(see the directions for raised pies, page 785).
you might call it a kind of deep-dish one-crust fruit pie.
i'm selling everything for 5 cents," says brescio [manager of lombardi's].
in spain a mixture of minced meats and  sausage is common, but in writing about empanadas in galicia janet mendel [ traditional spanish cooking, garnet publishing, 1996] lists no fewer than  18 examples of fillings, ranging from clams to rabbit, sardines to pigeon, and  octopus to ham.
" ---"turnovers: a dish with an international  heritage, craig claiborne,new york times, may 5, 1982 (p. c8) pasties these traditional welsh meat-filled pies often served  as a miner's lunch.
[1958] "frozen pie crust, pgk.
the regrettable loss of the greattreatise on baking, by chrysippus of tyranus, which included detailed reicpes for more than thirty cakes, each entirely different, leaves us somewhat short of information on this important subject.
carefully cut and fold in vanilla and remaining sugar.
serve warm or at room temperature.
a survey of sweet potato pie recipes through time
" ---the virginia house-wife, mary randoph, with historical notes and commentaries by karen hess [university of south carolina press:columbia] 1984 (p. 284-5) [note:
add melted butter, sugar, flour and milk and beat again unti well blended.
recipes for meringue through time: [1604] "to make white bisket bread take a pound & a half of sugar, & an handfull of fine white flower, the whites of twelve eggs, beaten verie finelie, and a little annisseed brused, temper all this together, till it bee no thicker than pap, make coffins with paper, and put it into the oven, after the manchet is drawn.
the pastrycooks had begun by making pies--meat pies, fish pies...romans had known how to make a kind flaky pastry sheet by sheet, like modern filo pastry, but the new method of adding butter, folding and rolling meant that the pastry would rise and form sheets as it did so.
there are other areas of spain known for their pies, but these are called pasteles instead of empanadas.
the nut of the tall hickory tree native to america, ranging from illinois down to mexico...
" ---the compleat housewife: or, accomplish'd gentlewoman's companion, e smith, facsimile reprint 15th edition 1753
" ---"advertising news,"new york times, december 19, 1951 (p. 56) [1953] "pizza, not undergoing a curious gustatory vogue,  is a hot freezing item in new york and chicago with at least a half dozen local  concerns in action.
in la varenne'sthe french pastry cook of 1656, the reader is told of 'the manner how to make a little puff-paste  bunns, called in french choux.'
by leaving the pie for 24  hours, you wil find that the flavours blend together in the most delicious way.
the practice of encasing sweet or savory minced contents in pastry (aka"pie" dates to medieval times.
[oxford university press:oxford] 1999 (p. 592) "pecan.
so i returned to hannah glasse.
[alfred a. knopf:new york] 1990 (p. 270) "coconut filling (for japanese fruitcake) 1 medium coconut 1 1/2 c. sugar 2 tb.
in america, where far more households had baking ovens than in europe, the tart became known as the pot pie by the end of the 18th century, and was a fixture of american kitchens.
one of the most interesting of all turnovers is  the pastry-filled fried food that i dined on in a town in louisiana called  natchitoches (the name is pronounced nacky-tosh).
the bottom of each crust is pierced with holes to allow the heat to  penetrate and crisp the batter.
after he shapes the pizza shell out of dough, mr. bucci spreads on a "sealing agent" such as tomato puree, and bakes it.
otherways for the liquoring or garnishing of these pies, for variety you may put in them boil'd skirrets, bottom of artichokes boil'd, or boil'd cabbidge lettice...whole onions being baked...or bake them with candied lettice stalks, potatoes..." --- the accomplisht cook, robert may, facsimile 1685 edition
six big tarts in each handy package.
for each person provide 1 individual-size frozen pizza..." ---"the fast gourmet," poppy cannon, chicago daily defender, june 1, 1967 (p. 24) [1972] "if your taste runs to pizza, we have some good news and some bad news.
we call 'em  kellogg's pop-tarts.
rorer's new cook book, sarah tyson rorer
baked and sealed in foil envelopes to stay fresh without refrigeration.
legend has it variously that it was named after the town of meringen in central switzerland of after the saxon town of mehringyghen, seat of the operations of the swiss pastrycook gasparini who supposedly invented it there in 1720.
some were plainly starchy and others markedly fibrous...
all begin with a gelatin "custard," are fluffed with stiffly peaking egg whites, and, in the case of the pineapple, with whipped cream as well.
inexpensive metal pie plates.
"my reasonable pecan pie i have nibbled at the utterly deadly southern pecan pie, and have served it to those in whose welfare i took no interest, but being included to plumpness, and having as well a desire to see out my days on earth, i have never eaten a full portion.
the quintessential pirog in russian culture...were round, but molokhovets (elena molokhovets as the author of an important 1861 russian cookbook titled "a gift fo young housewives") preferred rectangular ones.
it is very important that the cooked portion of the mix be thickened after the egg whites have been properly beaten, and they must then be folded together immedatiely.
quite the mystery, yes?
" ---oxford companion to food, alan davidson [oxford university press:oxford] 1999 (p. 273) natchitoches personal portable pies, louisiana-style!
mr. gibson had to satisfy his healthy english appetite on badly-made omelettes, rissoles, vol-au-vents, croquets, and timbales.
it is served in a tin pie  plate, cut into four sections, and eaten with the fingers.
pet's expertize in making pie crust for fruit pies made pie crust shells a natural line extension.
[cambridge university:cambrdige] 2000, volume one(p. 207) [note:
there are many 16th century recipes for coloured tartstuffs'.
the primary meaning of eclair in french is lightning', and  one (not very convincing) explanation advanced for its application to these  cream-filled choux-pastry temptations is that it was suggested by the light  gleaming from their coating of fondant icing.
when cool, split and fill with cream.
chiboust (for whom the creme used in this recipe was named) was a mid-19th century patissiere.
shape the dough, and get it into the oven while it is warm.
lay some butter on the top,  close your pie, and send it to the oven.
" ---blytheville courier news [ar], december 13, 1956 (p. 20) [1957] "pet-ritz fruit pies, frozen, ready to bake.
samosas/sanbusaq "samosa...are small, crisp, flaky pastries made in india, usually  fried by sometimes baked.
---the food of italy, waverly root [vintage books:new york] 1991 (p. 440)
ironically, such a delicacy originated as a means for resourceful pastry chefs to salvage leftover puff pastry dough.
a specialty of the nice region, consisting of a flan  filled with onions and garnished with anchovy fillets and black olives.
we are sometimes reluctant about serving it in warm weather bcause we dislike to heat the oven.
but the european explorers were interested only in the sweet kinds, and it is these which have been spread by european influence while the others have largely died out...
some franchise french bakeries, such as la madeleine, have "palmiers" that are far inferior to the "elephant ears" offered by fresh fields/whole foods market.
" ---"walking truck-boat just puts one pontoon before the other: frozen pizza...," stacy v. jones, new york times, feburary 6, 1954 (p. 23)
the dutch in america added new values to the art, including the use of a vivid green by means of copper or verdigris...
by 1967, toasted pastries were a $45 million market, most of which belonged to kellogg.
the guess is that a growing number of americans of italian origin aided by advertising and refrigeration, have made pizza as delectable as such other postwar imports as lollobrigida.
but post was slow getting country squares onto store shelves.
recent editions also add that until the early 19th century, meringues cooked in the oven were shaped with a spoon; it was careme who first had the idea of using a piping bag.
"...the curiously named hot-ta-meat pies of louisiana that indicate a borrowing from the spanish...
of  flour, 1/2 lb. of butter, 1/2 lb. of mutton suet, salt and white pepper to  taste, 4 lbs.
"toaster pastries joined the breakfast  line-up in 1964 as kellogg's pop-tarts," according to a company pamphlet.
this particular pie, simply known as 'pork pie', is of a form distinct from other pies which merely happen to be made with pork.
"pecan pie #2 3 eggs 1/2 cup sugar 1 cup light karo syrup 1 pinch salt 1 tsp.
mrs. sewell married ike, a liquor company executive, in 1939, and in the 1940s and '50s helped him with recipes and decor for his pizzeria uno, pizzeria due and su casa restaurants.
the french  pizza is one example.
he had never tasted tht stuff, never even heard of it, but agreed with riccardo that it should serve as a meal not just an appetizer as it was in italy.
for filling the pies, to every 3 lbs.
" ---"chef wyman's suggestions for tomorrow's menu," los angeles times, march 4, 1927 (p. a5)
chill, or freeze as desired.
during the late 19th/early 20th century marshmallows were very trendy.
we have no way to know how the first frozen crusts were packaged: rolled & destined for homemaker's own pie pans or pre-shelled "ready to fill" in disposable tins.
[university of north carolina press:chapel hill] 2004 (p. 67-8) [note:
[1651] contains several savory and sweet tarts.
[cassell and company:london] 1894 (p. 512-3) "tinned meat, shepherd's pie required: two pounds of meat, half-a-pint of canned tomatoes, half-a-pound of fried onions, salt and black pepper, and any herbs preferred, four pounds of potatoes, and some gravy.
there are other areas of spain  known for their pies, but these are called pasteles instead of empanadas.
its extreme  similarity to the provencal pissaladiere, a dough base covered generally with  onions, olives, and anchovies, would make it tempting to assume that italian  somehow acquired the word from french, were it not for the fact that italian  pizza actually denotes a far wider range of items than what english-speakers  would recognize as pizza.
put a paste over the top, and bake it with moderate heat, raising the lid occasionally, to see how it is baking.
a typical, four-ounce serving would provide 220 to 304 calories.
s.v. carp, they likewise make a pottage of profitrolles  with carp flesh minced."
(cooking of the british isles, adrian bailey, pages 156-7)
seethe well your pumpkin, so that it will be more thickened than ordinary, then fry a chibol with butter, and put it in with salt, and serve with pepper."
a quarter of a pound of powerered white sugar.
about fifty yearsl later ibn  battuta calls it a samusak, describing it a s 'minced meat cooked with almonds,  walnuts, pistachios, onions and spices placed inside a thin envelope of wheat  and deep fried in ghee'.
"by the middle of the seventeenth century, pies had become a peculiarly engish specialty; even the french were prepared to concede superiority.
the mixture is rather thin when poured into the pan but after baking and cooling, cuts clean.
ice  with butter icing." ---out of old nova scotia kitchens, marie  nightingale
take the price of a dozen, divide by 12, and add extra (round up for profit).
the original larousse gastronomique (1938) contains information on apple tarts but does not make reference to tarte tatin.] "...how these tatin girls accidentally inventd the famous tart involves a small sally into french social history.
if liked, some pork can be added, and apple sauce used instead of the tomatoes.
it is remarkably similar ot the queen of puddings."
it was introduced by a man who went around with a pizza filled basket on his head...at that time there was some doubt whether these pizzas were to be used as shingles or munched.
example?pear tart 17th century french tarts la varenne's cuisiner francaise
bake in hot oven (400 degrees f.) 15 minutes; reduce heat to moderate (350 degrees f.) and bake 30 to 35 minutes longer.
" ---new york pizza, the real thing, makes a comeback, the new york times, june 10, 1998, section f; page 1; column 2 (this article includes a list of notable historic pizzarias includingtotonno's in coney island andgrimaldi's in brooklyn.
" ---the encyclopedia of new york city , kenneth t. jackson editor
" ---tower ticker," savage, chicago daily tribune , february 7, 1953 (p. 23) [1951] "giuseppi's frozen pizza pie, philadelphia." ---"advertising news & notes," new york times, december 7, 1951 (p. 50) [1951] "del buono frozen pizza, camden nj.
time for fruit pasties, twenty minutes.
cobblercobbler cobbler is an amalgam of european tradition and american ingenuity.
[alfred a. knopf:new york] 1982 (p. 52) [note: ms. casas mentions on p. 64 of this book that empanada de lomo (pork pie) is the most commonly prepared galician pie.] "empanada.
" ---pie marches on, monroe boston strause
they never published it or even wrote it down, so an "authentic recipe" does not exist, only hundreds of different interpretations by other cooks.
when mixed, this is spread 'as thick as a finger', baked in two pieces and, once cooked, spread with butter, sugar and rosewater.
time to bake, fifteen to twenty minutes.
impossible pieimpossible pie is it possible to mix up several ingredients, pour it into a baking recepticle and have the layers naturally settle into a pie formation (crust on the bottom; filling on the top).
beeton's book of houeshold management, isabella beeton
a seventeenth century oneida recipe specified that pumpkin should be "boiled with meat to the consistency of potato soup."
most of these tiny inns are owned and run by women who are also superb game cooks...
"how about a rubber car?" one man jokingly suggested from the rear.
the meat should be fairly fat, and is best from a bacon pig, but the loin or neck of pork may be used; the foreloin is preferred by many.
during the middle ages lemons were rare and expensive in n. europe, and available only to the rich...
canadian english, a real mouthful [1977] "cape breton pork pies how these little  tarts got their name remains a mystery to us.
if you notice, these references are usually found in medieval cooking books with modernized recipes.
theain-i-akbari lists, among dishes of meat  cooked with wheat, the qutab, 'which the people of hind call the sanbusa'.
in the plays of aristophenes (5th century bc) there are mentions of sweetmeats including small pastries filled with fruit.
alsace is french, of course, but the food, language and appearance are quite german in character.
sugar and chocolate had now  arrived on the scene; from the time of louis xiv onwards those delicacies  became extremely popular...
the pastry may be baked or deep fried.
fold in 2 stiffly beaten egg whites.
" --- encyclopedia of american food and drink, john f. mariani [lebhar-friedman:new york] 1999 (p. 144) "grasshopper pie.
cook these ingredients over hot water, stirring them constantly until they are smooth and thick.
what sewell and ruccardon began has been imitated, perhaps improved upon...and occasionally ripped off.
similar recipes, however, using oreos or famous chocolate wafers, might have been on a box.
mince the meat, add the jelly from it, and the tomatoes, with a little more stock or plain gravy of any sort; pile this in the centre of the dish; put the remainder of the potatoes thickly on the top; rough the surface with a fork, and bake until well browned in a moderate oven about three-quarters of anhour.
"if ike was the godfather of deep dish pizza, she was the godmother,"  wirtz said.
movie people claim it all started in hollywood in the 1940s when film editors relaxed at lunch by scaling empty film tins.
continue beating until whites are very stiff.
our tests centered on the four most popular pizza styles.
hoping to appeal to grown-up baby boomers as well as today's children and adolescents, kelloggs continues to direct marketing schemes for pre-sweetened cereals and pop-tarts to all age groups..." ---"pop-tarts,"encyclopedia of consumer brands, janice jorgensen editor [st. james press:detroit] volume 1:
shakespeare mentions potatoes twice, both times with lecherous connotations.
the fruit, now on top, looked very neat, but a bit pale.
we took a bisquick impossible pie and did a creative twist by adding coconut, raisins and some other things.
the most famous in town are served at a small  restaurant called lasyones.
"in america, sweet potatoes were grown extensively in virginia, georgia, and the carolinas, but there were a luxury in the north before 1830.
cook until the meat loses its raw look.
what is your favorite?," marian manners,los angeles times, june 10, 1932 (p. a7)
it is likely that it was during the 13thc century ad that the sweet potato was taken westward to easter island and hawaii, and in the next century to new zealand...
" ---"'round the food stores: for a look at the latest ideas," lois baker,chicago daily tribune, july 12, 1957 (p. b17) [1966] "for a teenage get-together or a family supper, you can't go wrong when you serve miniature pizzas.
" --- biscuits, spoonbread, and sweet potato pie, bill neal
"q. i would like to make a good key lime pie.
"there are homemade dishes, but for holidays and other festive occasions the family may resort to store-bought macaroni, the nearest baker's oven and perhaps even to a professional cook for a mess of maccheroni al forno, oven-baked macaroni, for which the pasta is combined with buffalo cheese, sausage and meat balls into a sort of pie.
fee-based research service available.
it was a deep-dish thick, quick crust filled with whatever fruit (fresh, canned, dried) was on hand.
" ---display ad, karo, big spring daily herald [tx], april 17, 1941 (p. 8) [1942] pecan pie true southern pecan pie is one of the richest, most deadly desserts of my knowledge.
[prospect books:2001] cream puffs & eclairscream puffs & eclairs choux a la creme, profiteroles and cream puffs are said to have originated in renaissance france and italy.
robert may'saccomplisht cook
the "grasshopper" name is borrowed from a popular green-colored cocktail, also *invented* about this time.
" --- pizza today, june 2005 [note: page no longer connects, 10 april 2009] french pizza?
in part this was because it  fit so well in the culture of the times.
when melted, mix it up  into a stiff paste, and put it before the fire with a cloth over it until ready  to make up; chop the pork into small pieces, season it with white pepper, salt,  and powdered sage; divide the paste into rather small pieces, raise it in a  round or oval form, fill with the meat, and bake in a brick oven.
mind that the spoon is to be filled with sugar to the brim, for the sweeter the meringues are, the better and crisper they are; but if, on the contrary, you do not sugar enough, the meringues are tough.
pet-ritz is generally credited for introducing shelled frozen pie crust products to the american public.
essentially it means 'pie', and this can cover for  example a cloased fruit pie as well as the open pizza.
if you'd just see one  laying there on the plate, you wouldn't think it was that much trouble.'...
there is, however, a variety cultivated in the south of europe, the juice of which is very sweet.
eat what you  are: people, culture and food traditions, thelma barer-stein
if your pie is large, you must put in a pint of white wine.
"as a good daughter of the south practically weaned on pecan pie, i had always assumed that it dated back to colonial days.
culinary evidence reveals a variety of different ways for making these pies.
now you can bake your family a real fruit-country pie--a pet-ritz pie with juicy, sun-sweet fruit heaped high in a delicately tender crust, fir shiw golden butter!
the carefully turn it out on a large dish; or you may, if more convenient, send it to table in the dish it was baked in.
[notes: although the type of potatoes is not specified (white, sweet), the recipe is strikingly similar to that of modern-day sweet potato pie.
parmigiano, from abruzzo.
a north american nut (actually a kind of hickory nut) sometimes said to be a native of oklahoma, the pecan...is really indigenous to an area extending from the u.s. midwest throughout the south and southwest into mexico--a region where it still grows wild today.
as well as their game specialties, they had a dessert that was quite popular with regular visitors.
they are more explicit than any contemporary french manuscripts and  indicate long-standing familiarity with the technique.
then add an additional half pound of sugar to the beaten egg whites and continue beating the whites until this last part of the sugar is thoroughly dissolved.
take one pound of puff pastes; cut it  into as many pieces as you require pasties; roll out in a circular form, and  put the fruit on one half, turn the other half over on the fruit, and pinch the  edge, which should first be wetted with white of egg.
---ibid (p. 125) [1817] "cheshire pork pie.
empanada' means covered with bread'; and bread dough may be used, but the usual covering is shortcrust pastry.
originally from the foothills of the kashmir, the lemon did not reach china...until around 1900bc.
there were about a hundred pastrycooks in paris at the end of the 18th century.
"whites of eggs produced the elizabethan dishful of snow, a spectacular centrepiece for the banquet course following a festal meal...
every beauty shop uses lemons in some of its preparations, and many housewives make it a rule to use the juice of a lemon on their hands after washing the dishes or on their hair after a shampoo.
the french pizza is one example.
there was, however, a perceptible trend towards sweet tarts.
but pop-tarts continue to  dominate the toaster-pastry category, although significantly lower-priced  generic brands are widely available.
a pie dish should then be greased, and the potatoes put at the bottom, to form a layer from half to an inch in thickness.
note: fresh uncooked pineapple will not congeal in gelatin mixture.
here too, the crusts are the standard pastry, baked and cooled (crumb-crusted cvhiffon pies come later--with pies such as grasshopper...and black bottom..).
reduce heat to 350 degrees f. and bake for 40 minutes more, or until a knife inserted in center comes out clean.
riccardo returned  having stumbled upon a better idea--pizza.
" unfortunately, there's no date on the leaflet.
originating on lorraine (the name comes from the german "kuchen," meaning cake), it has become a classic of french cuisine and is also widely enjoyed in other countries.
marshmallows were incorporated into cakes, pies, gelatin desserts, hot chocolate, candies, and the like.
if the cooked portion of the mix is allowed to stand waiting for the egg whites to attain the proper stiffness, a skin will form, and on folding this mix into the egg whites, a lumpy filling will result.
grated lemon rind 2 or 3 drops lemon color
these recipes have been imitated by many, but seldom equaled.
combine fruit, juice and sugar, cook about 5 minutes.
" ---the encyclopedia of american food and drink, john f. mariani [lebhar-friedman:new york] 1999 (p. 340-1) "vinegar pie.
[1747] "to made different sorts of tarts
the dough was topped with salt and pepper, scamozza (scamorza) cheese, tomatoes, grated parmesan cheese, and olive oil in that order.
beast the eggs as for an omelet and salt them, then gradually mix the cream into them.
---america's cook book, compiled by the home institute of the new york herald tribune
according to the food historians, cobbler (peach, apple, plum, cherrry, etc.) originated in the american west during the second half of the 19th century.
the most famous cooks in the family were the tatin sisters marie and jeanne, who ran the auberge about 40 years ago.
topped with anything you choose to mix, match or even  scramble, these make-ahead finger foods are fun.
set in a warm oven until the meringue is set and colored a good cream color.
" ---an a-z of food  and drink, john ayto
remove the mixture from the heat and stir in the creme de menthe and cognac.
" ---cassell's dictonary of cookery with numerous illustrations [cassell, petter, galpin & co.:london] 1874?
the sweet potato has long been associated with southern and soul cooking..." ---encyclopedia of american food and drink, john f. mariani [lebhar-friedman:new york] 1999 (p. 318-9)
pop tarts the concept of fruit-filled pastry is thousands of years old.
in england one of the several  meanings of the words 'chou' and 'puffs' is amost identical to that of la  varenne's and massailot's 'choux' paste.
180 issue 5, p44, 4p, 7c "bravo!
"the confusion with the true yam came from the habit of slaves calling the american sweet potato by an african word (either gullah njam, senegal, nyami, or vai, djambi) meaning "to eat."
refrigerator pies can be made in a pastry shell, which, of course, is baked before the filling it put in.
[image graphics:paducah ky] (p. 268) the dictionary of americanisms traces the first instance of the word cobbler (as it applies to a pie dish) in print to 1859: "cobbler...a sort of pie, baked in a pot lined with dough of great thickness, upon which fruit is placed." "another kind of cobbler is a western- deep-dish pie with a thick crust and a fruit filling.
there is reason to believe that this preparation is the  progenitor of the empanada and calzone.
if necessary, add water to make up 3/4 cup liquid and stir into the saucepan with 1 1/2 \ cups sugar.
take a pound of pumpion and slice it, a handful of thyme, a little rosemary, and sweet marjoram stripped off the stalks, chop them small, then take cinnamon, nutmeg, pepper, and a few cloves all beaten, also ten eggs, and beat them, them mix and beat them all together, with as much sugar as you think fit, then fry them like a froise, after it is fried, let it stand till it is cold, then fill your pie with this manner.
in st. louis, mr. de salvi found a local tavern owner who was freezing the italian specialty during slack times at the bar.
within a few years, it was a favorite all over france.
then in the 1980s when salmonella began compromising the wholesomeness of our eggs, they fell from favor.
as far as taste goes, we think most would do well to buy a freshly cooked pizza at a pizza parlor they know to be good and freeze it themselves..." ---"frozen pizza,"consumer reports, june 1972 (p. 364-367) [1976] "coming to chicago [and other markets] shortly as a part of a national roll-out is stouffer's french bread pizza, a frozen prdouct in test in four markets including indianapolis, through a good part of 1975.
seasonable from september to march..." little raised pork pies.
we have buses booked year-round.'...
this lead to pastrycooks, bakers, and restauranteurs all claiming the same products as their own specialties, and various disputes arose when one trade encroached upon the other...another order, in 1440, gave the sole rights for meat, fish, and cheese pies to patisseries, this being the first time that the word appeared.
" ---fitchburg sentinel [ma], december 6, 1961 (p. 34) [1962] "pet-ritz frozen pie crusts and are introduced by pet milk, which has created an entirely new product category.
the food served in the first  italian restaurants in the city was adapted from recipes of naples and sicily,  the home of many italian immigrants.
pie was made by ancient cooks.
eveyln's 'french fritters.'...
serve on a dish covered with a neatly-folded napkin.
sift the flour with a pinch of salt, add it to the egg and milk mixture, and mix well to form a firm dough.
used night and morning it will make a remarkable change in tightening up loose gums and improving the circulation and cleanliness of the mouth.
melted butter 1 cup pecan halves 1 unbaked 8-inch pie shell beat eggs until lemon-colored, then add sugar, karo, vanilla, salt and melted butter.
stir in salt, vanilla and pecan meats.
remove from the paper and press the bottom lightly with the thumb to make a slight impression.
" ---"cold war looms: pizza pie vs.
" ---"ike and ric: they were the first with the thickest,"chicago tribune, august 1, 1976 (p. g16)
now butter and other shortenings are used, thus rendering the moniker "pork pies" a delicious relic of times past.
[applewood books:bedford ma] 1997 (p. 138) [1824] "pumpkin pudding stew a fine sweet pumpkin till soft and dry, rub it through a sieve, mix with the pulp six eggs quite light, a quarter of a pound of butter, half a pint of new milk, some pounded ginger and nutmeg, a wine glass of brandy, and sugar to your taste.
to serve, put two of these meringues together with ice cream of any desired flavor.
she should bear in mind that it must not be allowed to get cold, or it will fall immediately: to prevent this, the operation should be performed as near the fire as possible.
we never met with these pies elsewhere, but can recommend  them.
< middle french, french profiterole (although this is first attested later in the sense relevant to sense 1: 1549; 1881 in sense 2) < profit profit n. + -erole, diminutive suffix (extended form of -ole -ole suffix1).
" culinary evidence confirms turnover-type recipes precede their appellation in both british and american culinary texts.
according to the oxford english dictionary, profiteroles entered  the englsih language from french in the 16th century: "app.
the pizzas, which are kept under refrigeration but not frozen, are ready to pop into the oven...one pizza (about nine inches in diameter) yields two generous servings, or three for not quite such ambitious appetites...though mr. giuffre's roma pizza company, inc. has been operating in long island city for only a little more than ten days, it is already turning out 3,000 of the delectable pastries daily."
although it is usually spread with fromage blanc, bacon and onion before baking, there are many variations.
it's a rolled bread filled with ground veal and pork, swiss chard, cauliflower, provolone, and black olives, shaped like a crescent to recall the arab domination of sicily.
in principle, choux paste requires only four ingredients: water, fat, flour and egg.
stir until mixture thickens and tint pale green.
yet the tatin girls deeply resented all the imitation of their tart.
38 then there was god knows what à l'allemande,..timballe, and salpicon.
it just brought a lot of happiness and joy to people at a time when the world was getting ready for world war ii...
"in fact, the first quiche recipes to become popular in america were those for the egg-onion-and-bacon tar called "quiche lorraine," which was extremely fashionable in the 1970s as a luncheon, brunch, or appetizer dish in the united states."
there are three recipes for key lime pie inthe key west cook book (1949), only one of which refers to a graham-cracker crust, and two of which do not require the pie to be baked.
early potato pie recipes are included with savory/vegetable dishes; 19th century recipes are grouped with desserts.
cook until the mixture is stiff enough to pile up well on the spoon, then turn into a baked pastry shell.
pies hit big time in america," james d. schacter,washington post, march 9, 1954 (p. 25) "a war cloud, no bigger than a press agent's mind, is hanging over chicago, if you are going to believe folger s. decker, a man of his word--thousands of them, in fact.
'that fall in middlebury the air was filled with flying pans, every size and shape,' said a story in middlebury's alumni newspaper in the spring of 1976.
meat, or savoury pasties, form the princial food of the agricultural classes in cornwall; but a mixture of meat, potatoes, and turnips is more generally used for their pasties.
many of them are in the south.
many people assume pizza originated in italy.
roll out in a sheet half an inch thick;  cut with a biscuit cutter into circles.
gradually add dry ingredients and beat two minutes on medium speed of electric mixer, scraping bowl occasionally.
these are southern california lemons.
our survey of historic newspapers and us patent office records confirm toaster pastries were introduced to the american public in 1964.
just before serving spread the top of the pie with a thin layer of whipped cream.
there is some speculation, based on the fact  that chicago-style pizza is thickly-topped and sometimes served in square pans,  that the recipe was influenced by sicilian cuisine.
very frequently, the inexperienced cook finds much difficulty in raising the crust.
these are served with drawn butter, meat gravy, or sour cream.
about fifty yearsl later ibn battuta calls it a samusak, describing it a s 'minced meat cooked with almonds, walnuts, pistachios, onions and spices placed inside a thin envelope of wheat and deep fried in ghee'.
it all began when we pubished a letter from ann mehr of schaumberg, who wanted a recipe for the elephant ears sold at wisconsin county fairs.
cover: let rise in warm place, free from draft, until doubled in bulk, about one hour.
as for the  origins of calsones, claudia roden [in her bookthe book of jewish food,  1996] suggests that they came to the aleppo community with the italian jews who  left italy at various times, beginning in the 16th century, when there was a  mass emigration eastwards following the expulsion of jews from italy.
cotgrave, as early as 1611, describes  'petit chou' as 'puffe-cake, or loafe, made of butter, cheese, fine meal, and  yolks of egges.'
1706 phillips's new world of words (ed. 6), meringues (fr. in cookery), a sort of confection made of the whites of eggs whipt; fine sugar, and grated lemmon-peel, of the bigness of a wal-nut; being proper for the garnishing of several dishes.
dictionary of italian food and drink, john mariani [broadway books:new york] 1998 (p. 257)
each wedge is rolled from the wide crust end to its point, and the rolls are eaten end to end.
then, as today, the industry was plagued with bad drivers having accidents while on company time: "during a discussion on pizza delivery, one man asked his fellow pizzamakers what he could do about his high accident rate.
pour into crust and freeze six hours or overnight.
pies  hit big time in america," james d. schacter,washington post, march  9, 1954 (p. 25) "a war cloud, no bigger than a press agent's mind, is hanging over  chicago, if you are going to believe folger s. decker, a man of his  word--thousands of them, in fact.
dishing out the history of pork pies is quite the challenge for any food historian.
considerpineapple upside down cake!
the pie stayed in the pan, but the crust cracked badly right across its center.
feldeisen says he doesn't make a profit on the palmiers.
some are layered (similar to contemporary lasagne); others are vertical presentations (similar to vol-au-vent).
from faye bean of friend, neb.: "here's the elephant ears recipe (my father used to call them 'shoe soles').
cooking methods (baked or fried in ancient hearths, portable colonial/pioneer dutch ovens, modern ovens),pastry composition (flat bread, flour/fat/water crusts, puff paste, milles feuilles), and cultural preference (pita, pizza, quiche, shepherd's, lemon meringue, classic apple, chocolate pudding?)
gennaro lombardi seemed to be the man to turn to.
pecan butter is also made." ---oxford companion to food, alan davidson
mix together eggs, flour, salt, and nutmeg, and combine with the milk.
a careful examination of  ingredients and method bear witness: [1753] "apple pasties to fry.
---cassell's dictionary of cookery with numerous illustrations [cassell, petter, galpin & co.:london] 1875 (p. 610) "pork pies, pastry for.--put a quarter of a pound of finely-shred beef suet--or five ounces of lard, or a quarter of a pound of mutton suet--and an ounce of fresh butter into a saucepan with half a pint of boiling water and a pinch of salt.
[1951] "lemon chiffon filling first place on the stove and bring to a boil: 1 quart water 12 oz.
" ---"ten history courses: there are some interesting stories behind nyc restaurant names--just ask jimmy," sunny lee,daily news [new york], february 16, 2003 (p. 17)
when pies are made small they require  a quicker oven than large ones.
season them with pepper, salt, and nutmeg, and  make a good crust.
cultivators of the new fruit claim that the flavor lasts as long as two months.
a tart differed from a pie in that it was baked open, a distinction that did not always hold true, however.
it is  traditionally coated with a condiment pissalat before being cooked, hence the  name.
but until i opened  my kitchen here, people made them in their homes and sold them in their homes.'
originally, german meat pies were commonly made of fish for consumption during times of religious fasting, but gradually, beef and pork pies gained in popularity.
boil or steam the potaotes, mash and season them ...and put them in an inch thick at the bottom and sides of the dish.
the new york historical society contact the library for item availability.
the taino word batata was soon transformed into several european words, including the spanish patata, french patate, and english "potato."
make and shape the pies according to the directions given in the following recipe, and remember that the pies must be moulded while the paste is warm, and that they are much more easily made with a mould than without one.
from afhgan national cuisine to usa country fair fare.
by the mid-'60s, frozen pie shells were ubiquitous.
several readers wrote with suggestions for those who suffer from the hard brown sugar blues.
"how about a rubber car?" one man jokingly  suggested from the rear.
'grade-point averages dropped, football atttendance suffered and all stores were out of pie pans.'
put in unbaked pie shell and bake in a slow oven (275 degrees f.) for about 30 minutes.
" ---warm springs receipt book , e.t.
when pumpkin was made into a soup, it often underwent some enriching which converted it into something more like a stew.
a type of savoury cake or dumpling, (perh.) baked in ashes.
"in 1943 ike sewell, a liquor-company executive and former all-american guard from wills point, tex., and ric riccardo sr., an artist, seaman, apache dancer, and tavernkeeper born in biella, italy, decided to team up and open a mexican restaurant in chicago.
her pirogs tended to include pieces of meat, fish, or  poultry with grains and vegetables and almost no forcemeat (stuffing)..." ---classic russian cooking, elena molokhovets' "a gift to young  housewives," 1861, translated and introduced by joyce toomre
as a mould is not always at hand, those who are note particularly expriernced in the work (and it requires skill) may mould the pie round a jelly-pot or bottle, which has beeen made warm by beining immersed for some time in warm water.
cold sweet potatoes may be cut in slices, warmed in milk, and seasoned with butter and salt, or browned in butter.
they were also just as easy to cultivate.
culinary history sleuthing is often the result of careful reading and research.
at some american bakeries the frisbee-size confection is as sweet as saccharin and dubbed the "elephant ear."
the pie plate, or poi schuessel was the most general article of sgraffito work, and the most widely distributed.
add the juice and grated rind of 1 lemon.
time.—if made small, about 1–1/2 hour.
italian immigrants built commercial bakeries  and backyard ovens to produce bread they had eaten in italy.
fruits, veggies, fish were first offerings.
---the africa cookbook: tastes of a continent, jessica b. harris [simon & schuster:new york] 1998 (p. 6) "the yam spirit was a powerful force present in much of oceania and in nigeria as well.
the version now well known, which includes bacon (and sometimes cheese) in the filling, was originally a variant known as quich au lard.
they could be baked head and reheated or warmed over the next day.
this 20th century novelty recipe took some parts of our country by storm.
[1954] "feast on frozen foods from famous houses...
this suggests an italian-american genesis.
the incorporation of an egg into what is effectively hot-water paste--and a fairly obvious innovation for an inquisitive cook--would produce a kind of choux paste.
there is speculation this recipe was invented by food/drink companies to promote their products.
[william morrow:new york] 1976 (p. 41) a survey of pumpkin pie recipes through time
art of cookery made plain & easy, hannah glasse
the story goes that it took six months of experimentation to produce that "cheese, tomato, and meat pie" called deep-dish pizza.
it derives its name from the green color of the cordial.
" ---"home service bureau conducted by marian manners timeline suggestions...
that was developed in june 1976 by our test-kitchen's task force from a recipe submitted by various sources.
[bobbs-merrill:indianapolis] 1946 (p. 590) [note: this book offers recipes for chiffon pies flavored with maple sirup, rum, pumpkin, fruit, coffee, lemon, lime, strawberry, pineapple, and orange.]
this tart may be made a day in advance."
recent editions of this book do not reference the 1720 date and they attribute the invention of meringue to gasparini, a swiss pastrycook who practiced his art in a small the small german town of meiringen.
"believe me," says pastry chef, bruno feldeisen.
a mispelling early in the game changed an 'i' to 'e' a man on the west coast (w. fred morrison) began manufacturing aerodynamically improved version of the disk in 1957.
in a thirteenth-century arabic cookery book of al baghdadi, sanjusaj is described as a stuffed triangular pastry fried in sesame oil...
else would call hamburgers the enemy?," judy klemesruds,new york times, march 31, 1971 (p. 38) frozen pizza the earliest print reference we find to manufactured frozen pizza (in the usa) is patent 2,688,117, "method for making frozen pizza," filed by jo bucci, philadelphia pa, august 10, 1950.
it is curiously reminiscent of the patina apiciana from classical rome, in which layers of laganum, an early version of lasagna, alternate with layers of chicken, fish, or songbirds.
bijv, to tost white sheuers, and to make prophytrolles and after talkyng, oftymes to fyll the bolles.
bake in pans lined with rich pastry.
the delicate backbone--if one day apply such a sturdy name to such a quivering creating--is gelatin.
they're perfect when you make them.
just substitute the same amount of berries and juice.
guts frisbee is played by two five-man teams standing about 15 yards apart.
i am certain these pies are very much related to empanadas and came about through the influence of spanish settlers in the state.
as considerable dexterity and expertness are necessary to raise the crust with the hand only, a glass bottle or small jar may be placed in the middle of the paste, and the crust moulded on this; but be particular that it is kept warm the whole time.
the ingredients are  quite similar to those of neighboring italy.
place in plate, prick bottom and sides, weight with beans or rice and bake about 6 minutes at 375 degrees, or until pastry is a light brown.
per serving: 338 calories (40 percent from fat), 15 g fat (8.1 g saturated), 11.3 mg cholesterol, 4 g protein, 45.4 g carbohydrates, 0.5 g fiber, 214 mg sodium.
[oxford university press:oxford] 2002 (p. 353)
you can use any dinner-roll or bread recipe if you want to make them from scratch our you can use frozen dinner rolls instead of frozen bread.
a good pissaladiere should have a layer of onions half as thick as the base if bread dough is used; if flan is made with shortcrust pastry (basic pie dough), the layer of onions should be as thick as the flan pastry.
[note: the ad also mentions smuckers brand jelly and preserves was used for the  filling.]
wardens were a particular kind of pear.
shortcrust pastry 1 kilo (2 lb) boned loin of pork 4 rashers (2 lb) streaky green bacon, chopped 250 g (8 oz) chopped  onion salt, pepper, nutmeg 275 g (12 oz) cox's orange pippins, or  similar dessert apple brown sugar 150 ml (1/4 pt) white  wine, dry cider or light ale beaten egg or top of milk, to glaze line a 1 1/4 litre (about 2 pt) capacity pie dish with pastry.
..molokhovets' pirogs encased the  filling in pastry; with a few exceptions, her pates just had a top layer of  pastry or none at all.
the  tarte flambee of alsace may be the world's northernmost indigenous and  legitimate pizza.
the usual course  suggested for it is vulgar latin *picea, a dervative of latin pix, 'pitch' (in  which case it would be an amost directly parallel formation with english  pikelet), but it could also be related to greek pitta.
the first pies were very simple and generally of the savory (meat and cheese) kind.
the twelfth-century dietetic manual, the liber de ferculis et condimentis, which was translated from the arabic...
ike sewell,  along with partner ric riccardo sr., is credited with inventing deep dish pizza  in 1943, but mrs. sewell also helped concoct the pizza that put chicago on the  map, according to chicago blackhawks owner bill wirtz, a family friend.
pizza alla margherita?
it flourishes in the balmy southeast region of the country.
a flour thickening should be put in five minutes before you take it up.
line deep pie plates with puff pastry and fill with this mixture; put into the range and bake.
they hurl the plastic disks at each other with awesome force, scoring points when an opponent fails to catch a throw one-handed...
about cornish pasties.
time to bake, about two hours for a pie containing three pounds.
a box of lemons which would sell in ordinary seasons for $2.50, is now worth between $5 and $6.
he painted out the  cockfights and bullfights and left to vacation in italy.
the ingredients for 'benets' or  "bennets'( a kind of fritter) are practially identical to those fo john
theoxford english dictionary traces  the term "eclair" in the english language to 1861 "vanity fair
perhaps edward johnson reflected this emerging attitude in the 1650s when he offered as a sign of new england's progress toward prosperity the fact that in most households people were eating "apples, pears, and quince tarts instead of their former pumpkin pies."
" --- martha washington's booke of cookery and booke of sweetmeats, transcribed by karen hess
by 1956 it had shunted aside hot dogs as the most popular item in both.
then place another layer of pork, and put in a half a pint of white wine.
[literary services and production:london] 1968 (p. 153-4) colonial american fruit tarts these were very similar to european fare.
it is unlikely this was a "corporate kitchen" product.
after the continents separated at the end of the cretaceous era, the evolution of american yams proceeded separately, but they are still not much different from their old world relatives.
about 8  minutes, serve.
cook over boiling water until very thick.
such etymological considerations--a focal point for most investigations by cookery historians--bear upon choux...pastry...historically, we find at least two pastries referred to as 'choux'.
instead of making these desserts always in the form of the deep loaf cake, they are making them in pie plates to be cut exactly like pies.
beat egg whites until they stand in soft peaks.
according to the records of the u.s. patent & trademark office, pop tarts (a kellogg's trademark) were introduced to the american public july 14, 1964:
boil two pounds of white potatoes, peel them, and bruise them find in a mortar, with half a pound of melted butter and the yolks of four eggs; to it into a cloth, and boil it half an hour; then turn it into the dish, pour melted butter, with a glass of sweet wine and the juice of a seville orange mixed over it, and strew powder sugar over all.
fold them into the gelatin mixture.
hannah glasse'sart of cookery made plain and easy classified "pot pie" in a special section titled "several new receipts adapted to the american mode of cooking," this print evidence cements the "american-ness" of the pot pie.
there is a peculiar convention in tarte flambee:
by the late 1960s, american were consuming two billion pizzas annually.
canadian english, a real mouthful [1977] "cape breton pork pies how these little tarts got their name remains a mystery to us.
per serving: 431 calories (30 percent from fat), 14.5 g fat (5.6 g saturated), 75.8 mg cholesterol, 8.2 g protein, 69.4 g carbohydrates, 0.5 g fiber, 271 mg sodium.
fold into lime mixture and pour into chilled tray.
seasonable from september to march.
add condensed milk and beat until well blended.
tips: if you are making your own graham cracker crust, try brushing egg white on the top just before baking to keep the crust crisp.
cost, about  7d. per pound.
our research confirms kellogg's was not the first to bring a toaster pastry to market.
happy accident or stroke of genius?
10 apr. 7/5 chicken timbales with sauce.
fill the flan with a mixture made of 4 dl (14 fl oz or 1 3/4 u.s. cups) cream, 3 eggs and a pinch of salt.
in principle, choux paste requires only  four ingredients: water, fat, flour and egg.
sewell was a lover of  and an expert on mexican cuisine.
originally pissalat was made from the fry of sardines and anchovies, but because this is not readily available outside the mediterranean area, anchovies in brine may be used instead.
1 1/4 to 1 1/2 cups heavy cream 1/4 tsp salt pinch of pepper and nutmeg 1 to 2 tb butter (preheat oven to 375 degrees.)
" ---"it's new," washington post and  times herald, february 18, 1955 (p. 67)
although both yams and sweet potatoes edible starchy tubers, they evolved from two totally different plant species.
they later learned of the frisbie pie company...'as to the documentation on who cast the first one without a blueberry pie in it, that's a bit of a challenge,'...
"visitors to the truman library in independence, mo., often follow the path the trumans themselves took once when mrs. lyndon johnson came to visit them.
there are dozens of recipe variations.
it was so thick that it  required the use of a knife and fork -- which brought down another wall of  pizza tradition: pizza had always been something that you ate with your hands.
also nice served  with salads or cold cuts for luncheon; and ideal for bridge or canasta  nibblers.
versions of impossible pie were also named mystery pie or amazing coconut pie.
the recipes are identical except for the nutmeats.]
chill this while you make the filling.
moisten all around the edges of the circle of dough.
karo kookery , 1956, offers a recipe for "de luxe peanut pie," but no pecan pie.
when the crust is brown, and the peaches very soft, invert the crust on a large dish, put the peaches evenly on, and grate loaf sugar thickly over it.
if desired, with additional whipped cream.
with one recipe you get 30  pizzas--to bake and serve or store in the freezer for a spur-of-the-moment  gathering.
however, the fact that the word had even entered the english language before this (it is first mentioned in edward phillip's dictionarythe new world of english words, in john kersey's 1706 edition)
[1886] "shepherd's pie 1 pound of cold mutton 1 pint of cold boiled potatoes 1 tablespoon of butter 1/2 cup of stock or water salt and pepper to taste
" ---paradox of plenty: a social history of eating in modern america, harvey levenstein [university of californa press:berkeley] 2003 (p. 229-30) more on american pizza: new york style pizza
why call it cobbler?
pot pie recipes the oldest recipe we know (so far) specifically titled "pot pie" was published in the 1805 american edition of a classic english cook book.
stir into this the yolks of 2 eggs, well beaten.
" ---encylopedia of american food and drink, john f. mariani [lebhar-friedman:new york] 1999 (p. 74) "chiffon pie.
remember, however, that you are not to use articles that are very sweet, the meringues being sweet in themselves.
but not the frisbee, which exists just to fly.
lemons reached the new world...in 1493, when columbus, on his second voyage, established a settlement on haiti.
press the edges closely, ornament them in any way, and brush the turnovers with white of egg.
" ---"florence sewell, 95, chicago philanthropist," art golab,chicago sun-times, april 10, 2000 (p. 56) "what is this pizza called chicago deep-dish, and what makes it so different from other pizzas?
to the whites add 1/2 cupful of sugar and beat until very stiff.
in place of so much cream, for instance, they are using mixtures that depend more on eggs and cornstarch and gelatin and marshmallows for the thickening ingredient.
leave the most part in the middle.
sweet potatoes (like pumpkins) were introduced to europe in the 16th century.
david iovanne, director of the new haven convention and visitor bureau, said it is part of new haven lor that yale students were the first pie-tin tossers...
many people assume pizza originated in  italy.
a small pastry made of a sugared and double-rolled sheet of puff pastry cut into slices, the distinctive shape of which resembles the foliage of a palm tree.
however, it was widely used from the middle ages onwards.
[william morrow:new york] 1999 (p. 573)
makes 2 pies, 16 servings.
the family originally operated a roadside stand, selling cherry pies to michigan tourists.
ingredients.—for the crust, 5 lbs.
but similar claims have come from princeton and other easter colleges and universities.
cook, turning the pies in th hot fat until nicely broaned and cooked through, about eight minutes.
overlap slices of broiled bacon and cheese over the bottom of the pastry.
like col. sanders and others  who found a recipe for success, lasyone is tight-lipped about exactly what goes  into his product.
the aphrodesiac reputation of cock robbins' brains and sweet potatoes was accepted by educated people as well as by the medical profession.
take the pumpkin and peel the rind off, then stew it till it is quite soft, and put thereto one pint of pumpkin, one pint of milk, one glass of of malaga wine, one glass of rose-water, if you like it, seven eggs, half a pound of fresh butter, one small nutmeg, and sugar and salt to your taste.
[simon & schuster:new york] 1995 (p. 317) about the gastronomy of the lorraine region lorraine region of france.
roll out this dough to the same thickness, and cut it ito six-inch circles.
fill the pie, put on the cover, pinch the edges, fasten securely with white of egg, ornament the outside in any wan thay may suit the fancy, brush over with yolk of egg, and bake in a slow oven if the pie be large, in a quicker one if it be small.
corn flake crumbs are excellent for this purpose.
accordingly, cu's food technologists  evaluated from three to six samples of each frozen pizza fro flavor, aroma,  texture and appearance...
perhaps the earliest extant english receipt if found ina book  of cookrye (1591) first published in 1584.
---ibid (p. 268) [1845] "pot pie or soup scraps and crumbs of meat make a very good dinner, when made into soup.
all figure prominently into the complicated history of this particular genre of food.
english books of the eighteenth century contain many receipts for meat pies with sweet and sour elements...
---"news of food: pizzas now offered here ready-to-cook,"new york times, june 28, 1950 (p. 34) [1951] "with almost every jobbing musician in the local working at another trade or business during the day, it remained for emil de salvi, band man about town, to finally shelve his music vocation when his odd-hour avocation paid off highter than the union scale.
a louisiana slave named antoine was the first successfuly to graft and cultivated pecan trees in 1846.
this does not preclude the possibility of other people hurling similar objects in other parts of the country (world?)
many pennsylvania dutch also call the pot pie noodles botboi, which adds a layer of confusion to the evolution of this dish.
" ---oxford companion to food , alan davidson [oxford university press:oxford] 1999 (p. 586-7).
another cornish specialty?
cover with pastry in the usual way, and brush with beaten egg or top of the milk.
let stand till mixture starts to set.
1 tablespoon gelatin 1-4 cup cold water 1 1-2 cups diced fruit 3-4 cup fruit juice 1-2 cup sugar 1 tablespoon lemon juice 1-8 teaspoon salt 1-2 cup whipping cream sprinkle gelatin over cold water and allow to soften.
registration date june  22, 1965 owner (registrant) kellogg company corporation delaware 235 porter st.
the indian version is merely the best known of an entire family of stuffed pastries or dumplings popular from egypt and zanzibar to c. asia and w. china.
[prospect books:devon] 1995 (p. 72) "cheshire pork pye fo sea take some salt pork that has  been boiled, cut it into thin slices, and equal quantity of potatoes, pared and  sliced thin, make a good crust, cover the dish, lay a layer of meat, seasoned  with a little pepper, and a layer of potatoes; then a layer of meat, and a  layer of potatoes, and so on till your pye is full.
missionary nuns took their talents as pastrycooks to the french colonies.
still, i find it difficult to believe that some good plantation cook didn't stir pecans into her syrup pie or brown sugar pie.
bake in a 425 degrees f. oven for 10 minutes.
when the pennsylvania dutch hausfrau baked her bread on the dutch oven hearth, she was able, without any additional fuel cost, to bake pies also in the same oven at the same time.
take six large lemons, and rub them very well with salt, and put them in water for two days, with a handful of salt in it; then change them into fresh water without salt every other day for a fortnight; then boil them for two to three hours till they are tender; then cut them in half quarters, and then cut them...as thin as you can; then take pippins pared, cored and quartered, and a pint of fair water, and let them boil till the pippins break; put the liquor to your orange or lemon, half the pippins well broken, and a pound of sugar; boil these together a quarter of an hour; then put it in a gallipot, and squeeze and orange in it if it be lemon, or a lemon if it is orange; two spoonfuls are enough for a tart; your pattipans must be small and shallow; put fine puff-paste, and very thin; a little while will bake it.
"empanadas, meat and fish pies from galicia, are rarely found  elsewhere in spain.
billie hamilton armstrong of hohenwald, tenn., has found a good proportion to be about two parts "soft" flour from summer-ripening wheat and one part "hard" flour from the winter vareity.
cut into dice (by means of a mincer, or by hand), the pieces bieng even in size, the fat and lean mixed will, and the seasoning thoroughly blended with the meat; the meat should be sprinkled with a spoonful of water or stock during the mixing, as it tends to bind it.
the meat goes next, and should be put in the centre of the bottom layer, leaving a little space all around.
(if bacon is very salty, parboil it and drain before broiling.)
as you remove the pastries from the pan, shake off the excess oil gently, then sprinkle them on both sides with a mixture of sifted icing sugar and ground pistachio.
cotgrave, as early as 1611, describes 'petit chou' as 'puffe-cake, or loafe, made of butter, cheese, fine meal, and yolks of egges.'
we then got a letter from linda mao or rocky mount, n. c., who said, no, no, a thousand times no!
(despite the striking similarity, there  does not appear to be any direct etymologial link with italian pizza.)
winter squash or pumpkin soup...
it is  garnished with choux pastry puffs, and choux pastry is also used in making  eclairs and choux a la creme, and a kind of chocolate eclair known as the  religieuse (nun), though no one knows why.
although it is most often known as a pissaladiere, it is what it is: a round, flat bread, crisp on the bottom, simply garnished on top, rustic and yet urbane.
" --- the oxford companion to food, alan davidson [oxford university press:oxford] 1999 (p. 856) african yams enjoy a rich and interesting history, figuring prominently in cultural traditions.
as was the custom of the day, these holes were variously filled with  sweet or savory fillings.
in england one of the several meanings of the words 'chou' and 'puffs' is amost identical to that of la varenne's and massailot's 'choux' paste.
the meat pie kitchen in an old downtown strip along the cane river has become  something of a landmark in recent years--a haven for busloads of tourists, as  well as for travelers armed with ice chests for long-distance takeout orders.
" ---food and drink in medieval  poland: rediscovering a cuisine of the past, maria dembinska
you see it everywhere, although it is most common in the north, around strasbourg.
the oldest reference we find for sawdust pie is a recipe published in bon appetit, may 1983 ("letters to the editor, p. 8).
having pared and sliced from the cores some fine cooking apples, nearly fill the oven with them; pour in enough water to cook them tender, put pieces of paste on the top, or put a paste all over the top, and bake it with moderate heat, having a fire both on and under the oven.
did the early cooks use "sweet potatoes" or were white potatoes that were sweetened?
amernick's savory rendition is best appreciated when taken home and warmed in the oven.
the company settled on a food of taste and convenience, the toaster pastry.
our taste-tests indicated though, that  liberality or stinginess with any given ingredient wasn't a reliable guide to  eating quality...chemical analysis indicated that the samples averaged roughly  half water, about 30 per cent carbohydrate, 10 per cent protein and, depending  on pizza variety, anywhere from 6 1/2 to nine per cent fat.
" ---larousse gastronomique, completely revised and updated [clarkson potter:new york] 2001 (p. 899) "a pissaladiere is in effect a provencal version of the pizza.
dictionary of italian food and drink,  john mariani [broadway books:new york] 1998 (p. 197) pizza in america: new york traditions & chicago-style pizza was imported to the united states by italian immigrants.
one of the most interesting of all turnovers is the pastry-filled fried food that i dined on in a town in louisiana called natchitoches (the name is pronounced nacky-tosh).
who wasfrank meyer? "the meyer lemon is not a hybrid but is a distinct citrus species found only a few years ago in a remote region of china by one of the famous plant explorers of the united states department of agriculture, mr. fred meyer.
compare these recipes "sawdust pie.
fruit is of medium size, thin-skinned and smooth.
"it will save a lot of tempers."
this preliminary sheet is returned to pat form and rolled in a machine into pre-formed pie crusts about twelve to sixteen inches one-sixteenth of an inch thick.
they are titled "pompion."
another early written recipe for sanbusaq appears in the thirteenth-century cookbook attributed to ibn al-adim (d. 1262, the kitab al-wusla ila l-habib fir wasfi al-tayyibat wat-tib, where it is described as a small half-moon of puff pastry stuffed with cheese, chopped meat, or qaymaq...
lime juice 1/8 tsp salt 1 pint whipping cream.
we call 'em kellogg's pop-tarts.
it is served in a tin pie plate, cut into four sections, and eaten with the fingers.
press the top down with the knuckles of the right hand, and with the left press the outside closely to keep it firm and smooth.
the recipients were visiting king umberto i and queen margherita.
pour cold water or a cold, weak meat stock over the chicken.
more important, though, was how pies could stretch even the most meager provisions into sustaining a few more hungry mouths...no one, least of all the early settlers, would probably proclaim their early pies as masterpieces of culinary delight.
legends about the origins of frisbee are many--all probably apocryphal.
its widening use is no doubt due in part to its pleasantly bucolic associations, in part to the virtual disappearance of mutton and lamb from such pies in favour of beef...
at first glance, amernick bakery in cleveland park may seem an unlikely source for a palmier.
this is to be a gustatory grapple, mr. decker  said, with the pizza pie on the one side, and the hot dog, weiner or tepid  puppy, on the other.
the filling is of fresh pork without other major ingredients, seasoned with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of herbs, especially sage.
when the crust is cold, very carefully take it out, and fill it with what fruit you please, ay on the lid, and it is done; therefore if the tart is not eat, your sweet-meat is not the sorse, and it looks genteel.
you will win instant fame as a cook when you sevre this one, and you can take the bows with a chuckle up your sleeve knowing it is easier that "pie."
more inquiries were made about pizza than any other food with the exception of the "corny dog," the dressed-up hot dog on a stick... ...
[times books:new york] 1984 (p. 3) note this book has much more information on the the history of pizza...ask your librarian to help you find a copy or obtain reprints of pages 3-13.
[j. hodges:london] 1753 (p. 161) [1792] "potatoe pudding.
although meat and other relishes were seen earlier in greece as accompaniments to cereal, the cereal had taken other forms.
after it is well sod, pass it through a straining pan, and leave not much broth in it, because of the milk which you must put in it.
decorate with whipped cream.
they came up with a balance of cheese and sausage and spices and decreed  that it should be used in abundance.
calzones are more apt to take the form of individual pizza-dough turnovers.
let them boil till they be tender.
i think the version at the breakers in palm beach is outstanding.
next stir in 4 tablespoons sugar.
it went in soft and soupy.
beat the whites of 4 eggs until they are stiff, and fold them into i. and ii.
as snack foods go, frozen pizza is remarkably nutritious.
the ingredients and method of gateau saint honore date the possibility of this recipe to the 17th century.
of flour, milk,  and water.
mode.—well dry the flour, mince the suet, and put these with the butter  into a saucepan, to be made hot, and add a little salt.
dopn't be fooled by their simplicity because the simplest things often gove the best results.
then lay them in your coffins of paste with lofe suger, & bake them not to hard.
the refined french name for these french friters is 'beignets souffles'...
hoping to appeal to grown-up baby boomers as well as today's  children and adolescents, kelloggs continues to direct marketing schemes for  pre-sweetened cereals and pop-tarts to all age groups..." ---"pop-tarts,"encyclopedia of consumer brands, janice  jorgensen editor [st. james press:detroit] volume 1:
what is perhaps the best-known english  mixture of meat and sugar, the mince-pie, retained this combination until well  into the nineteenth century, and survives, without the lean meat but with beef  suet, to our own day.
[1653] "potage of pumpkin.
it is much hardier and easier to grow than the commercial lemons of california.
calabria made pitta or petta, apulia pizzella or pizzetta, sicily sfincione.
brush over with well-beaten egg, and bake in a slow oven, as the meat is  solid and requires to be soaked thorugh.
fillings  may be of meat, mushrooms, cheese, cabbage, or potatoes--all seasoned.
our survey of historic meringue recipes indicates flour was never a traditional ingredient.
"at first," sewell said, "we had to cut it into little  slivers and give it away to people who were drinking at the bar."
easy as pie, the newest in pie crusts.
it requires a lot of time and careful handling.
chocolate (as a glaze or filling) was an  18th century addition.
fold in half and roll out again into a 16-by-12-inch rectangle.
it had a crust two fingers thick and a generous layer of seasoned tomato puree that was dusted with grated romano cheese just before it went into the oven...chicago-style deep-dish pizza came into being in 1943 when two savvy entrepreneurs, ike sewell and ric riccardo, opened pizzeria uno on the corner of wabash and ohio.
" ---tower ticker," savage, chicago daily tribune , february 7, 1953 (p. 23) [1951] "giuseppi's frozen pizza pie, philadelphia." ---"advertising news & notes," new york times,  december 7, 1951 (p. 50) [1951] "del buono frozen pizza, camden nj.
tinned ox-tails, ox cheek, kidney, &c., may take the place of the beef or mutton.
you can make an excellent facsimile back home using a frozen pizza for a  base.
add egg and another quarter-cup of the flour, or enough flour to make a thick batter.
pizza was a neapolitan food uncommon in  most of italy but popular in new york city after g. lombardi opened a pizzeria  on spring street in 1905.
of flour, milk, and water.
mr. brown, however, denied that there had been any storm about messina, and said that the advance in price was owing to the light receipts and the warm weather.
an open tart filled with a mixture of beaten eggs, creme fraiche and pieces of bacon, served hot as a first course or hors d'oeuvre.
as such, pumpkins (aka pompions) were embraced almost immediately.
but the old world knew neither the winter squash (curcurbita pepo) nor the pumpkin (curcurbita maxima), both of which were brought from the americas.
riccardo knew nothing about it, and there was no decent place in chicago (according to sewell) to taste it.
"the first american cookbook recipe for pizza appeared in specialita culinarie italiane, 137 tested recipes of famous italian foods, a fund-raising cookbook published in boston in 1936.
(p. 1017) "fruit pasties or turnovers.--boil down fruit of any kind with a little sugar, and let it grow cold.
the lemon cakes we know today trace their roots to medieval european cooks.
" ---kentucky housewife, lettice bryan, facsimile reprint 1839 edition
back when quiche was trendy, the impossible pie formula called for ingredients similar to those for quiche yet eliminated the need to make a separate pastry crust...
[1933] "those gorgeous creations of lady fingers and whipped cream and nuts and macaroons known as refrigerator cakes have long been great favorites...
there are several uniquely american pizzas.
it could be none other than impossible pie, one of the most successful corporate recipe projects in the u.s. food-marketing history.
we tend to associate meat pies with english cookery, but they were also known in medieval germany.
nor were they *worthy* of recognition by mainstream newspapers  or menu collectors.
measure the liquid from the coconut.
gelatin isn't the only way we have of putting standupableness into the new era of refrigerator pastries.
we were disappointed by the crusts, taste or high bacteria counts on all but four brands, and we could rate those bands only fair.
art of cookery made plain and easy, mrs. [hannah] glasse, a new edition with modern improvements, facsimile 1805 edition printed by cottom and stewart and sold at their book-stores in alexandria and fredericksburg 1805, introduction by karen hess
" ---larousse gastronomique, completely revised and updated [clarkson potter:new york] 2001 (p. 1198)
" ---"no shortening cuts in fine pastry," dorothy white,los angeles times, february 15, 1968 (p. f20)
for a small chicken pie, use 2 ounces of butter, a little flour, cover with a light pastry dough, and let it bake 1 hour in the oven.
put two tablespoonfuls of stewed apples on one-half the dough; fold over the other half, pinch the edges together; place these in a baking-pan, brush with milk, and bake for twenty minutes." ---mrs.
milk 1/4 cup dark rum, or brandy 3 eggs, lighly beaten pecans whipped cream 10-inch pie shell, unbaked mix all ingredients together and our into the prepared pastry shell.
" ---"letters get to 'sole' ear debate," daily herald [chicago il], june 3, 1997 (p. 78)
" ---the international dictionary of desserts, pastries and confections, carole bloom [hearst books:new york ] 1995 (p. 210)
brush with melted margarine.
recipes and cooking methods vary according to place and expectation.
natchitoches personal portable pies, louisiana-style!
besides, knox gelatine's 1915 booklet, dainty desserts for dainty people, features gelatin "sponges," "marshmallow puddings," and "marshmallow creams"--the airy mixes that would one day emerge as chiffon fillings...
whip the whites of two eggs with two tablespoonfuls of sugar until stiff, spread over the top of the pie and brown slightly in the oven, sprinkling a few chopped nuts over the top." ---"tried recipes," christian science monitor, march 24, 1914 (p. 6) [1931] "karo pecan pie by: mrs. frank herring 3 eggs, 1 cup karo (blue label), 4 tabpesloons corn meal, 1/2 cup sugar, 1/2 cup chopped pecans or less if desired, 2 tablespoons melted butter, pastry.
rareness and expense, besides that quality henry viii appreciated, lent it chic.
fillings vary from  one country or region to another.
the original recipes simply call for squash or gourds.
he said is would be cold war, of course, as many of these pizza pies are frozen. ...
glazed profiteroles are stuck to the ring of choux.
" ---encyclopedia of american food and drink, john f. mariani [lebhar-friedman:new york] 1999 (p. 236) about pecans related food?
" ---"to frisbee fans, it's the ultimate," parton keese,new york times, august 7, 1977 (p. cn1) "students at yale university insist they were the first to pick up a frisbie pie company plate and fling it into the air.
elizabeth david, writing about the florentine cooks that catherine medici was said to have brought with her to france in 1533, states, "those cooks...are part of a myth originating in mid-nineteenth-century france, perhaps in the imagination of of of the popular hsitorical novelists who flourished at that period, and certainly without existence in historical fact...
pet-ritz took marketed their product nationally; oronoque orchards remained local.
[crown:new york] 1961 (p. 959) english/anglo definition
advertisements also consisted of the full brand  name and the slogan "drop em into the toaster-or eat em just as they  are." printed across the side of the toaster with pop-tarts popped up.
short on cash while on the road, the men took frisbie fruit pies with them to eat, the story goes.
the oldest recipe we have for something called "shepherd's pie" is dated 1886: [1596] "for to make mutton pies mince your mutton and your white together.
fauvel, a chef working for the famous pastry cook chiboust, invented the genoese sponge and also had a hand in the creation of the gateau saint-honore, so called in honour of the patron saint of pastrycooks.
nevertheless, both hineklboi baked in a pot and chicken botboi have a common ancestor.
by the middle of the 19th century the word pizza had become common parlance for the food item..."
beat filling once again and pour into partially baked pie shell.
these generally still relied on medieval flavors: pepper, salt, nutmeg, orange juice, lemon, chestnuts, mace, sugar, gooseberries, barberries, grapes etc.
season them with pepper, salt, and nutmeg, and make a good crust.
" ---"q & a,"new york times, december 21, 1983 (p. c11) "grasshopper pie.
it's really a big thing.
combine with sweetened condensed milk.
[firefly books:buffalo] 1999 (p. 373) "pirogs and pates...pirogs (filled pastries) have always been essential for russian festivities.
beat the potato in by degrees, to a light paste; then the brandy, lastly the whites.
1 cup sugar 1 cup chopped pecans melted margarine
however, it was the crusaders who gave a decisive impetus to patisseries, by discovering sugar cane and puff pastry in the east.
already the cheese and tomato-topped "pies," which made their debut in bean town three months ago, are available for 49 cents each in a few stores here, including kaboolian's market, 389 avenue of the americas, and philip's quality market, 80-28 thirty-seventh avenue, jackson heights, queens.
---ibid (p. 518) [1929] "meringues or kisses whites 4 eggs, 1 cup fine granulated sugar, 1/2 teaspoon vanilla beat whites until stiff and add, a spoonful at a time, two thirds cup sugar, beating vigorously between each addition, and continue to beat until mixture will hold its shape.
take sliced apples sliced thin round ways, and lay a layer of the froise, and a layer of apples with currants betwixt the layers.
this is no longer an excuse for not having it because there are the uncooked varieties, the ones which require no heat.
panisse, a restaurant in berkeley, california.
hot dog," thomas morrow,chicago daily tribune , august 3, 1954 (p. 18) [1955] "it's new--a new frozen food product, little  bo-pizzas are the first miniature pizzas to make their apperance.
and since it is not possible for us to discuss flour without dealing with cakes, the moment has come to pose the question of what pastry consisted of in antiquity, what it looked like and how it was made.
---the good housekeeper, sarah josepha hale, facsimile reprint 1841 edition with new introduction by janice (jan) bluestein longone [dover publications:mineola ny] 1996 (p. 85)
raw fruit may be used, but in this case the paste must be thicker, and not quite so rich.
row after flawless row of compact, perfectly wound palmiers are nestled against one another.
garnish with pecans and whipped cream flavoured with rum or brandy.
add: 1 teaspoon vanilla beat them with a wire whisk until they are light.
" ---an a-z of food and drink,  john ayto [oxford university press:oxford] 2002 (p. 269)
sift one cup sugar and cream of tartar.
press the mixture against the bottom and sides of a nine-inch pie plate.
the late frank meyer, plant explorer of the united states department of agriculture, did california a great service when he found this lemon in the door-yard plantings of china.
these pastries were still made in iran as late as the 16th century, but they have disappeared from most of the country today...
remove from stove and fold in gelatine.
boil the rind of a seville orange very soft, beat it in a marble mortar with the juice.
cut bacon slices in two and broil them.
then place another layer  of pork, and put in a half a pint of white wine.
then gently stir in the beaten whites of the eggs.
apples were introduced to england by the roman conquerors.
[crown:new york] 1988 (p. 777-8) these are the facts: "the real creation of choux paste is complex and cannot be  established with any certainty, not least because its manufacture is a  relatively simple process and it is possible that it was independently created  in many places and at various times.
combine in the top of a double boiler the gelatin, half the sugar and salt.
a survey of newspaper/magazine articles suggests this recipe originated in the south (where coconut custard pies are popular).
lay fine sugar at bottom, then your fruit, and a little sugar at top; that you must put in at your discretion.
food historians confirm the popularity of limes (a gift from 16th century spanish explorers), presence of pies (an "old world" recipe), and eager acceptance of condensed milk (mid-19th century).
tasty, tender pastries--four kinds--each ready-filled with a different and luscious flavor...
the crusts were often heavy, composed of some form of rough flour mixed with suet.
[oxford university press:oxford] 2000 (p. 331) [note:
[1796] "apple tarts.
the name may derive from the italian island of stromboli, but more probably refers to a very big, strong character in the fairy tale the adventures of pinocchio (1882) by carlo lorenzini, whose pen name was "collodi."
[1685] "to make a pumpion pie.
pirojok is the singular, but is never used because who eats just one?
ingredients, cooking methods and size vary according to place and period.
it seems likely that the earliest use of the  term in england was by was of imported translations of french  seventeenth-century cookery books.
" ---"vive la pizza: an italiam classic gets a french makover," mark bittman,new york times, sept. 23, 1998 (p. f1) first pizza delivery?
combine slightly beaten egg yolks, 1/2 cup sugar, salt, lemon rind and juice, add remaining 2 tablespoons water; cook over boiling water until mixture thickens, stirring constantly.
although meat  and other relishes were seen earlier in greece as accompaniments to cereal, the  cereal had taken other forms.
general history notes from the food historians: "there is reason to believe that [sanbusak] is the progenitor of the empanada and calzone.
where is lemon meringue pie considered a *traditional* dessert?
add the beef and pork and cook, stirring and chopping down with the sides of metal spoon to break up any lumps.
the most famous timballo is the sicilian timballo di anellini, made with ring-shape dried pasta, balsamello, ground beef and chicken, peas, and vegetables, all wrapped in lettuce leaves and baked in a mold.
"---vidette-messenger
(p.  1017) "fruit pasties or turnovers.--boil down fruit of any kind with  a little sugar, and let it grow cold.
these timbales of the new type were used chiefly to serve vegetables and food in sauce.
baked and sealed in  foil envelopes to stay fresh without refrigeration.
the story  goes that it took six months of experimentation to produce that "cheese,  tomato, and meat pie" called deep-dish pizza.
one was the minneapolis-based general mills, home of mythical betty crocker and maker of bisquick all-purpose baking mix.
mix remaining ingredients together, adding pecans last.
it's a cookie, nothing more than flour, water, salt, a light sprinkling of sugar and immoderate amounts of butter.
place the mixture over boiling water, stirring constantly until gelatin is dissolved and mixture thickens slightly, four to five minutes.
like  "little bo-pizzas," delightful miniature hors d'oeuvres pizzas from  the petite food corporation.
by the early eighties americans had been served too many quiches...even craig claiborne, quiche's early promoter, decared that he wouldn't be caught dead serving it." ---fashionable food: seven decades of food fads, sylvia lovegren
chill this combination and just as it starts to thicken add the whipped cream, graham cracker crumbs, and the sugar.
pat the mixture firmly over the inside, bottom, and sides of a ten inch pie pan.
and many of them are served at room temperature.
"greek pistores had mastered the art of giving their bread the most extravagant forms, shaping it like mushrooms, braids, crescents, and so on...thus illustrating in advance careme's observation a thousand years later: "the fine arts are five in number, namely: painting, sculpture, poetry, music and architecture, the principal branch of the latter being pastry."
a pastry whose crisp, caramelized exterior gives way at the slightest pressure to countless crisp layers.
seeth them with water and sugar; after they are well sod, put in a little of some very fresh butter, beat all together and put it in your sheet of paste very thin.
in early cookbooks, "pot pie" was generally described the cooking method.
" ---larousse gastronomique, jenifer harvey lang, editor
dorothy ligush of pompano beach advocates using the same method.
game pie, pot pie and mutton pie were popular and served in pastry "coffyns."
" ---the potato: how the humble spud rescued the western world, larry zuckerman
it is traditionally coated with a condiment pissalat before being cooked, hence the name.
press long pieces into the sides, and fasten thesee  to the top and the bottom with white of egg.
?1515 a. barclay egloges iv. sig.
it only reached the mediterranean towards the end of the 1st century ad, whemn the romans discovered a direct sea route from the sourthern end of the red sea to india.
by way of  comparison, we also bought and tested at least one sample of fresh pizza in  each of those four styles.
it is usually served at room temperature as  often as not because in provence, and throughout france, pizza is snack bread.
on average, our frozen pizzas contained a bit more  dough than a fresh pizza of the same type, and a bit less cheese.
tarte flambee is a bit puffier and less flat than most pizza.
thenapoletana, i.e. pizza of naples, can indeed be seen, and has been so far seen for over a century, as the archtype of modern pizzas..." ---oxford companion to food, alan davidson
peel your potatoes, wash them clean, slice and stew them in a very little water till quite soft, and nearly dry; then mash them fine, season them with butter, sugar, cream, nutmeg and cinnamon, and when cold, add four beaten eggs, and press the pulp through a sieve.
by the mid-1950s, thanks to the popularity of spaghetti and tomato sauce, a taste for a white farinaceous base slathered in thick and salty tomato sauce had become an integral part of the american palate.
as they may be prepared well in advance they have a practical value that is desirable in many instances... "gelatine chocolate chiffon pie with bananas 1 nine inch pie prepare: a baked pie shell soak: 1 tablespoon gelatine in: 1/4 cup cold water combine and stir until smooth: 6 tablespoons cocoa or 2 ounces melted chocolate 1/2 cup boiling water stir in the soaked gelatine until it is dissolved.
then you send them up to table, fill them with creme a la chantilli, or with something acid.
page 1; column 1 "pizza a la mode,"the new york times, feb. 12 1956 vi 64:3 (profile of gennaro lombardi) "the pizza with an attitude," travel holiday, jun97, vol.
in the truest sense, deep-dish pizza  (pizza-in-the-pan is the alternate nom de pizza) is a first-generation  descendant of what italian-americans commonly referred to as "tomato  pie."
the food served in the first italian restaurants in the city was adapted from recipes of naples and sicily, the home of many italian immigrants.
if a mould is not to be used, cut  off as much apstry as will make the cover, and wrap it in a cloth to keep warm.
" ---elinor fettiplace's receipt book, original recipes published in london, 1604; edited and modern notes added by hilary spurling [elisabeth sifton books:london] 1986 (p. 118) [note:
so here the term 'choux' seems to apply to both paste and to the small buns made from this paste.
[oxford university press: delhi] 1998 (p. 224)
"...there is no earlier evidence than third century macedonia for the  use of a flat loaf of bread as a plate for meat, a function which bread  continued to perform in the pide of turkey, the pita of greece and bulgaria,  the pizza of southern italy and the trencher of medieval europe.
also called palm leaves, palmiers are small pastries made from sugar-encrusted puff pastry.
when rolled too loosely or baked at excessive temperatures, the pastry becomes brittle and shatters upon touch.
the editor of this book states this recipe produced meringues.
empanadas empanadas are considered part of the gastronomic history of spanish galicia.
place 4 egg yolks, slightly beaten, in a double boiler, add the rind and juice of 1 large lemon and 1 1/8 cups sugar.
g & s: fruit preserve filled pastry bakery product.
---the good housekeeper, sarah josepha  hale, facsimile reprint 1841 edition with new introduction by janice (jan)
presumably, the "inspiration" for key lime pie islemon meringue.
going down,"new york times, june 15, 1888 (p. 8) [1895] "there has been a considerable advance in the price of lemons, owing partly to the increased demand for them, caused by the hot weather and partly to a shortage in the sicilian crop.
these pies were cooked for hours in a slow oven, and topped with rich aspic jelly and other sweet spices.
" ---"toasting of an icon the pop-tart marks 30 years as part of american life," steve hymon, chicago tribune, september 25, 1994 (p. 1)
a glass of mixed wine and brandy.
serves 6 to 8." --- the wide, wide world of texas cooking, morton gill clark [funk & wagnalls:new york] 1970 (p. 349) related desserts?
cream puffs, as we know them today, are usually  filled withcustard or french cremes.
some are simple; others are ornamented.
season it with pepper; when it is full, lay some butter on the top, and fill your dish above half full of soft water.
176 an  old woman..preparing her turnovers, commonly called apple-pies.
key lime piekey lime pie certainly, such a popular pie would have much available in the way of history.
with a cutter six inches in diameter, cut out circles.
sir thomas elyot in hiscastle of health, does not mention robins, but notes that 'sparrowes be hard to digest, and are very hot, and stirreth up venus, and especially the brains of them.'
one of riccardo's bartenders, a chap named raoul, offered to cook up a fine mexican meal.
once pop-tarts were in  the markeplace, kellogg threw its full marketing muscle behind them.
"the lemon...owes its name entirely to the botanists, for it was unkown to classical writers.
according to the oxford english dictionary, profiteroles entered the englsih language from french in the 16th century: "app.
then put them in a thin tart crust, & give them with theyr syrrup halfe an hours baking; or if you pleas, you may serve them up in a handsome dish, only garnished with suger & cinnamon.
we accordingly analyzed duplicate samples of  every product for viable microbes.
close you pye up, and bake it in a gentle oven." ---ibid  (p. 125) [1817] "cheshire pork pie.
this may account for the reputation it acquired in some english-speaking countries, where it only became familiar in the latter part of the 20th century, as a dish not suitable for "he-men" or " real men."
an equally laudatory stick version is also available..." --- "a palmier by any other name . . .
"a turnover is a sort of small, typically individual pie or pasty, in which the filling is placed on one side of a piece of rolled-out pastry and the other side is then turned over' to cover it, forming a semicircular shape.
by the thirteenth century, sanbusak appears in spain, almost as the  same recipe, a triangular fried pastry.
spread it with: whipped cream.
" ---"frozen foods: nation eats mountain  tonnage of them as competition cuts prices,"wall street journal,  march 5, 1953 (p. 1)
with this bun shape--choux being french for cabbage--we can see (literally) the reason for the name of the paste.
this is no more japanese than the fruitcake of that name, but is simply the cake's coconut filling turned into a custard pie.
heap with meringue, and return to oven till meringue is brown.--mrs.
lemon meringue pie, as we know it today, is a 19th century product.
and only in th 1940s did "fannie" and "joy" begin offering recipes for it.
neither water nor bone should be put into pork pies, and the outside pieces will be hard unless they are cut small and pressed closely together.
" ---the southern cook book of fine old recipes, lillie s. lustig compiler
you'll call 'em the most convenient, tasty change-of-pace breakfast idea that's come along to brighten you your mornings in a long, long time.
" ---"rolling stromboli," james scarpa, restaurant business, may 20, 1993, (p. 107) related food?
" ---"why mourn about peaches?," john a. armstrong, los angeles times, may 6, 1934 (p. h3) "one of the best varities for back-yard production is the meyer lemon, which has proven its value since its introduction in 1908.
according to the [online] oxford english dictionary the word timbale, in the culinary sense, appeared in in english print in1824: "2.
g & s: fruit  preserve filled pastry bakery product.
it is a favorite with folk who have a sweet tooth, and fat men in particular are addicted to it.
since there were few cows on the keys, the new canned milk was welcomed by the residents and introduced into a pie made with lime juice.
bake at 400 degrees until the crust browns, about 10 minutes.
the word is from the french, meaning "rag," and ultimately the middle english word for "chip," as chiffon also refers to pieces of sheer, delicate ribbon or fabric for women's clothing.
but the result is like no gelatin dessert yet on the books...chiffons and cream pies start out the list, but lemon chiffon has now taken to itself relatives.
still,  pizza and pizzerias and, later, pizza parlors' were little known outside the  large cities of the east until after world war ii, when returning american gi's  brought back a taste for the pizzas they had had in naples along with the  assumptions that pizza, like spaghetti and meatballs, was a typical italian  dish, instead of a regional one."
art of cookery made plain & easy, hannah glasse, facsimile  1747 edition
beat until thoroughly blended.
italian food history books/cookbooks are curiously silent on this topic.
"the first englishmen to enjoy oranges, lemons...were probably the crusaders who wintered with richard coeur-de-lion in the fruit groves around jaffa in 1191-2.
if it bore no fruit at all, the meyer would still be worth planting as an ornamental in our gardens because it makes a spendid, bush, dense-foliaged shrub, growing to about eight feet and with flowers on it during almost the entire year....
our taste-tests indicated though, that liberality or stinginess with any given ingredient wasn't a reliable guide to eating quality...chemical analysis indicated that the samples averaged roughly half water, about 30 per cent carbohydrate, 10 per cent protein and, depending on pizza variety, anywhere from 6 1/2 to nine per cent fat.
it is possible the two are connected.
[oxford university press:new york]  2004, volume 2 (p. 286) "while not yet a bona fide fast food, pizza was soon giving the fast  foods run for the consumer's money.
"...on june 11, 1889, an official of the royal palace asked a local  pazaiolo named raffaele esposito to create a special pizza for the visit of  king umberto i's consort, queen margherita, to capodimonte.
at the texas state fair,  largest exhibition of its kind, pizza evoked great interest on the midway.
various combinations of cheese and flat bread [baked and fried]  were commonly eaten by ancient peoples.
missionary nuns took their talents as pastrycooks to the french colonies..." ---history of food, maguelonne toussaint-samat [barnes & noble books:new york] 1992 (p. 242-244) "although the paris pastry guild did not record its first constitution until 1440, there may well have been pastry specialties before that date.
at melton mowbray in leicestershire, long famous for its pork pies, anchovy essence was added not only for its flavour but because it was thought to give the meat an attractive pink colour, while pies from other districts were brownish or greyish.
while your pie is sitted, put in a good deal of sweet butter before your close it.
bake in hot oven (450 degrees f.) ten minutes, then reduce heat to moderate (350 degrees f.) and continue baking until a silver knife blade inserted in center of filling comes out clean.
the ingredients for 'benets' or "bennets'( a kind of fritter) are practially identical to those fo john eveyln's 'french fritters.'...
the centre of the ring is filled with a creamy mixture (creme chiboust) stiffened with gelatin and lightened with stiffly beaten egg whites.
this is the best-known  product of perouges, a well-preserved and perfectly restored medieval village  not far from lyons.
this will only take a few revolutions of the machine.
the sugar and the cinnamon recall the timbales and the torta described in fourteenth-century tuscan cookbooks; the ham and truffles sound a note of nineteenth-century france.
after the cornstarch solution has been added, cook until thick.
they experimented with pans of various sizes and shapes and came up with the "pizza-in-a-pan" (some call it "deep dish") method of cooking that yielded a crust neither neopolitan nor sicilian but something else, something brand new.
rain in 500 g (1 lb 2 oz) fine caster sugar mixing lightly with a spoon so that the egg whites do not lose their lightness.
according to the food historians the  introduction of pizza to new york city is attributed to gennaro lombardi when  he opened up his pizzeria at 53 1/2 spring street in 1905.
on a lightly floured board, roll out each of the eight balls until paper thin; they should be approximately 7" (18 cm) in diameter.
primary evidence confirms master parisian patissieres often employed choux and cream to effect grand dessert presentations.
and in case you'd like to use berries in place off oranges that'll be good, too.
the concept was brought here  in the late 1700s and early 1800s with the influx of miners from wales...
"pie...a word whose meaning has evolved in the course of many centuries and which varies to some extent according to the country or even to region....
when the oil is very hot, put in the 'ears' one at a time and fry until golden brown and bubbly, then turn and fry the other side until golden brown.
star 24 dec. 3/2 there were sweets called turnovers, in which were coins of various values.
the word was first recorded in america in 1676.
" --- ibid (p. 610-1) [1894] "pork pie, raised.--those who kill pigs of their own have no trouble in obtaining suitable pie meat; those who buy it should be careful to get the best quality, and to see that it is free from the slightest taint, every slice being carefully looked over.
set aside to cool, stirring constantly.
french profiterole is attested slightly earlier in its literal sense small profit: 1542.] .
the earliest pizza prototypes originated when neolithic tribes first gathered wild grains, made them into a crude batter, and cooked them on the hot stones of their campfires...italians may have made pizza famous, but they certainly did not invent the concept of the dish...the greeks, who occupied the southernmost regions of italy for over 600 years (from about 730b.c. to 130 b.c.), were the greatest bakers of ancient times...flat, round breads were baked with an assortment of "relishes" (in ancient greek, a relish meant anything spread or baked on bread), such as oils, onions, garlic, herbs, olives, vegetables, and cheese, on tip.
olin robinson, middlebury college's president, said both were wrong...'it started here.'
also a couple of tigers!
pop-tarts were marketed than and now as a food of convenience and a snack of nutrition...
shops around new haven, conn., for example, make "broccoli  bread" stuffed with the vegetable and italian sausage.
the hunters come with dogs and guns to spread out along the forest roads that pass isolated villages where they stay in small hunting auberges.
frank mccoy, muscatine journal [ia], july 11, 1928 (p. 3) how many kinds of lemons were available in 1928?
note.--should herbs be used, any of those named under pork sausages in a previous chapter will answer; but sage is generally liked.
" ---noshe djan: afghan food and cookery, helen saberi
some, like the galette de perouges, are sweet rather than savory.
the galette is baked in a hot oven until the sugar caramelizes and the crust becomes brittle; unlike most pizzas, this dough is not chewy but crunchy.
it is also said that its name comes from the fact that the pastrycook chiboust, who create the cream which is used in it, set himself up in the rue saint-honore in paris.
"volume of average annual imports and exports at cincinnati by canal, river, and railway for five-year intervals, 1846-1860 (years ended august 31).
..molokhovets' pirogs encased the filling in pastry; with a few exceptions, her pates just had a top layer of pastry or none at all.
festivities mark their planting and harvesting in countries like ghana and nigeria...
the solognes region is the paradise of french hunters, a wild, forested area along the upper reaches of the loire river, near joan of arc's city of orleans...
what ann is looking for is funnel cake, and she kindly sent us a recipe, which we published.
there are many different varities, ranging from dry and starchy varieties common in tropical regions...the moist, sweet version, dark orange with beta-carotene, that is popular in the united states was confusingly named a 'yam' in 1930s marketing campaigns.
timbales of this kind are simply a sort of hot pie, which instead of being made in a special mould or dish, usualy inged, are made in plain round mould with high sides.
allow 30-35 minutes for cooking." ---la bonne cuisine, madame e. saint-ange, 1927 edition translated and with an introduction by paul aratow, forward by madeleine kamman [ten speed press:berkeley ca] 2005 (p. 702) [note:
form dough into a ball, divide and roll out as usual.
uno's  "legend" here of course, few foods are truly invented.
nearly all pecan pie recipes call for karo corn syrup.
henry viii's meals also ended with fruit, although exactly what fruit is not specified apart from the fact that oranges and pippins (a variety of apples) are often included on the menu.
beyond those slivers of guidance, however, lasyone is silent...
" ---"toasting of an icon  the pop-tart marks 30 years as part of american life," steve hymon, chicago tribune, september 25, 1994 (p. 1) "after gaining market share in sales in cereal, kellogg searched for  related breakfast items that could both draw on and complement the recent  success in breakfast cereals.
1824 byron juan xv. lxvi.
"after gaining market share in sales in cereal, kellogg searched for related breakfast items that could both draw on and complement the recent success in breakfast cereals.
such  etymological considerations--a focal point for most investigations by cookery  historians--bear upon choux...pastry...historically, we find at least two  pastries referred to as 'choux'.
stir until dissolved and our into the egg-yolks beaten slightly with one tablespoonful of sugar.
kellogg had won the  toaster-pastry game in the first inning.
next fold into the mixture 1/2 cup of diced orange and 2 egg white beaten stiff.
remove from oven, invert paper and kisses, and wet paper with a damp cloth, wehn kisses many be easily removed.
when pies are made small they require a quicker oven than large ones.
in the old world beef suet was the norm.
the white, or virginia, potato so-called because sir walter raleigh brought it back to england from virginia, or so it was thought, was barely known during shakespeare's lifetime.
i talk to people that's much older  and as far back as they can remember they've had meat pies.
line pie tin with flaky pastry andfill generously with mixture.
tin pie plates being sccarce or non-existent in the early days, her need resulted in earthen pie plates; and her collection of poi schuessel became a source of pride to her.
"a pizza consists mainly of a flat disc of bread.
because french pizzas are so difficult to find outside france--and are among the easiest of all pizzas to make--it makes sense to try them at home.
a lot has happened to a frisbee since it held a pie, but a lot more has happened to the ability of frisbee tossers.
mould the rest with both hands into the shape of a cone, and make the sides  smooth and firm.
what did a frisbie pie tin look like?
it is for the "real" thing:" "big grasshoppers, such as grow fat and buzz loudly in the orient, are looked upon as table delicacies in the philippines.
a neapolitan pizzaiuolo might be startled by pizza in the united states...at a "pizza bar" in a large manhattan department store--where thousands are absorbed weekly by hungry shoppers--three kinds are for sale: plain pizza (a pie); pizzaret (a muffin), and a best-seller called the pizza-bagel, created, after some protest, by a turncoat pizzaiuolo from florida...
quichequiche the practice of baking sweet and savory dishes composed of eggs, cream, and spices in pastry shells is ancient.
line a 9-inch pie plate with pastry and fill it with the molasses mixture.
nowadays this is usually onions stewed in olive oil, or a  mixture of tomatoes and anchovies, or a puree of anchovies and garlic...all  threee decorated with black olives, but originally it would have been a mixture  of tiny fish, typically fry of sardines, anchovies, etc., preserved in brine.
a kind of tart in which the fruit is laid on one half of the  rolled out paste, and the other half turned over it; a child's sweetmeat  resembling this.
yes, according to the makers of impossible pie.
if a very savoury pie is desired, make the mince very moist, and allow longer time for baking.
the incorporation of an egg into  what is effectively hot-water paste--and a fairly obvious innovation for an  inquisitive cook--would produce a kind of choux paste.
" ---oxford  encyclopedia of food and drink in america, andrew f. smith
" ---a mediterranean feast , clifford a. wright [morrow:new york] 1999 (p. 563, 573) "calsones...a sephardic jewish stuffed pasta which is widely consumed in the middle east.
gervase markham's english huswife contains a recipe for "a warden pie."
pizza delivery & takeout frozen pizza in america the history of pizza is very  interesting.
what distinguishes the stromboli from its better-known cousin calzone is its multiple-serving loaf shape.
nip together with wet fingers, to prevent the pleats from opening during drying.
please ask your librarian to help you find a copy.] "among vegetables, the northeastern indians made particularly lavish use of squash, even more than other american indians, and especially of pumpkin.
in medieval northern europe the usual cooking fats were lard and butter, which--especially lard--were conducive to making stiff pastry and permitted development of the solid, upright case of the raised pie...
but even in the area of pies, the distinction between sweet and savory was beginning to operage and was visible in english texts before 1700.
place whole marshmallows on top and bake.
early recipes varied according to culture, cuisine, and liturgical season (lent, christmas).
so i  returned to hannah glasse.
of flour, 1/2 lb. of butter, 1/2 lb. of mutton suet, salt and white pepper to taste, 4 lbs.
read it three times before attempting to fill it." ---pie marches on, monroe boston strause
meanshile, trim the bacon of its rind, then cut into it small slices 1/2 centimeter (3/16 inch) thick.
here pizza  evolved into a large, sheet-like pie, perhaps eighteen inches or more in  diameter, reflecting the abundance of the new country....
the beauty of these self-contained foods was they were easy to cook, inexpensive, portable and could be consumed anywhere with little mess.
but 95 percent will take the meat pie  lunch and the majority are well pleased with it.'
cut into one-inch slices.
the entertainment weeklyvariety, going gastronomic the other wednesday, reported that the "extent to which the pizza pies are replacing hot dogs at drive-ins was demonstrated at the concession trade show at allied states ass'n convention which featured more pizza-making machines than frankfurter heaters."
esposito created three examples, but the one most favored by the queen was made with ingredients in the three colors (tricolore) of the italian flag--red (tomato), white (mozzarella) and green (basil) atop the pizza dough.
"legend has it that neapolitan pizzailo raffaele esposito of the pizzeria de pietro was the first to make a pie with tomato, basil, and mozzarella pizza (the colors of the italian flag) to honor the visit of queen margherita, consort of king umberto i, to naples in 1889.
it will thrive anywhere in southern california, not only producing big juicy orange-colored fruits, which can be used for all the purposes for which lemons are needed, but making a handsome ornamental plant.
this resiliant sugar-based formula is capable of adapting through the ages according to ingredient availability and cook ingenuity.
" ---ibid (p. 295) shepherd's pieshepherd's pie the english tradition of meat pies dates back to the middle ages.
it is occasionally used for savoury fillings, such as meat, but a sweet  fruit filling is the norm, and, as the above extract suggests, most turnovers  are in fact apple turnovers.
yolks of four eggs, white of one, beaten very light; grated rind and juice of one large lemon; five heaping tablespoonfuls of sugar.
how the crusty brown, overstuffed loaf became known as "stromboli" is anyone's guess, since there's no food by that name in italy.
after baking in the oven they are served piping hot, and a slav will betray his  origins by adding the crust and adding just a little more butter."
holton's pizza crusts are partly cooked, ready to brown and  serve.
"...the curiously named hot-ta-meat pies of louisiana that indicate a  borrowing from the spanish...
season your lamb with salt, pepper, cloves, mace and nutmeg, all beat fine, to your palate.
spanish potaotes, introduced by the spaniards, who found them in south america, were known in england around the middle of the sixteenth century.
karavaj...is a large, round loaf that was  part of the traditional offering of bread and salt, the russian gesture of  hospitality; rastegai is a small open-faced pastry with a fish filling htat was  customarily served with ukhas and other fish soups; kurnik is another festive  pie, one that was often served at weddings.
abruzzi had something called pizza in the twelfth century.
we wonder if this variety is related tomeyer lemons.] meyer lemons sweet, tangy, delicious and amazing.
the earliest fluffy gelatin pies that i was able to locate both appeared ingood housekeeping's book of menus, recipes and household discoveries.
the proportions for 1 pie are 1 lb. of flour and 3 lbs.
[prospect books:devon] 1995 (p. 72) "cheshire pork pye fo sea take some salt pork that has been boiled, cut it into thin slices, and equal quantity of potatoes, pared and sliced thin, make a good crust, cover the dish, lay a layer of meat, seasoned with a little pepper, and a layer of potatoes; then a layer of meat, and a layer of potatoes, and so on till your pye is full.
there seems to be some kind of belief that a highly decorated jar with a pretty ribbon helps the beautifier, but lemons are probably the most inexpensive as well as one of the most effective cosmetics obtainable.
shred your meat (mutton or beef) and suet together fine.
a sideline of italian bakeries at the turn of the century, a tomato  pie was baked in a large rectangular pan with 1-inch-high sides.
de salvi has perfected a frozen pizza pie, six fanciful fillings, for the television viewing home trade.
the origin of the word yam'...story goes the portuguese slave traders, watching africans digging up some roots, asked what they were called.
bake in hot oven (400 degrees f.) 15 minutes; reduce heat to 350 degrees f. and bake 30 or 35 minutes longer.
chess pie (aka sugar pie) & mongtomery pie, (mrs. cole's recipes, c. 1837--reprinted in the williamsburg art of cookery, helen bullock [colonial williamsburg:williamsburg va] 1937 (p. 127) sweet potato pie sweet potatoes are "new world" foods, pie is an "old world" recipe.
the first reference  to the term in english comes in the 1706 edition of edward phillips'snew  world of english words: petits choux, a sort of paste for garnishing, made  of fat cheese, flour, eggs, salt, etc., bak'd in a pye-pan, and ic'd over with  fine sugar.'
choux paste is different from other types of pastry because when cooked, it rises and the finished product has a hollow center.
a piecrust used less flour than bread and did not require anything as complicated as a brick oven for baking.
but beyond that its origins are obscure.
"the sweet potato (ipomoea batatas) and the yams (genus dioscorea) are root crops that today nurture millions of people within the world's tropics.
and a special version gained fame swiftly when it went on the menu of the lion house social center in salt lake.