the packaging is basic, but very nikon-like in it’s gold and black glory.
for a flash that costs just a hair over $100, you’d expect an awfully shoddy build.
considering how incredibly powerful this speedlight is at full power, i’m pretty impressed that it’s even that fast.
i wish there was more to say about this thing, but it really is just a great unit for an almost unbelievable price.
triggering the flash as a slave worked  perfectly, and i experienced no misfires or any issues at all.
it doesn’t have any latches that lock it into a  position, but the clicks feel very solid and i have no concern about them  wearing out over time.
not a big deal, but can be an absolute hassle at times.
by clicking our links first and then purchasing the items as we then get a  small portion of the sale to help run the website.
fortunately, that couldn’t be further from the case here.
if you would like to purchase any of the items mentioned, please do so by clicking our links first and then purchasing the items as we then get a small portion of the sale to help run the website.
the nikon sb-700 flash tagged as: nikon, speedlight, ttl, yongnuo previous post: the complete roundup of lens guides written by the  phoblographer staff next post: rumor: sony working on “uber-alpha” with square  sensor?
yongnuo claims that the yn468-ii has upgraded buttons, with a more solid click feel.
please support the phoblographer we love to bring you guys the latest and greatest news and gear related  stuff.
build quality is certainly on par with nikon and canon’s offerings.
copyright © 2008–2012 wordpress admin
while i haven’t felt the original, i will say that these feel  great, and are right in line with the quality of nikon’s own speedlights.
it comes with the speedlight in a velvet pouch, along with a snap-on diffuser and a tabletop stand.
yongnuo is currently selling the yn468-ii on amazon for $109.95, and  considering that’s $200 less than you’ll pay for nikon’s  cheapest speedlight, thesb–700, i really don’t think you can go  wrong.
they have now implemented ttl into both their canon and nikon flash units, and this yn468-ii is the first of this series to support nikon’s ittl.
for a flash that costs just a hair over $100, you’d expect an awfully  shoddy build.
it also  incorporates an improved laser-based system for autofocus assist, which worked  very well in low light and consistently allowed myd7000 to focus when it  otherwise couldn’t quite figure it out.
the ittl implementation works flawlessly, and my shots came out perfectly exposed every time.
it also incorporates an improved laser-based system for autofocus assist, which worked very well in low light and consistently allowed myd7000 to focus when it otherwise couldn’t quite figure it out.
yongnuo yn468-ii speedlight for nikon by andy hendriksen on march 24, 2012 yongnuo, a company out of hong kong, has become well known for making  pretty darn good speedlight alternatives to canon or nikon.
they  recently announced a couple new models, and i immediately ordered the very one  i’ve been waiting for them to make:the yn468-ii for nikon.
while i haven’t felt the original, i will say that these feel great, and are right in line with the quality of nikon’s own speedlights.
the speedlight feels incredibly solid in the hand, and is made with very nice  feeling plastics.
the phoblographer by andy hendriksen on march 24, 2012 yongnuo, a company out of hong kong, has become well known for making pretty darn good speedlight alternatives to canon or nikon.
considering how incredibly powerful this  speedlight is at full power, i’m pretty impressed that it’s even  that fast.
the flash will also automatically zoom between 24mm and 85mm based on the focal length of the lens attached to your camera.
the recycle speed is relatively quick, and with fresh batteries, it consistently from full power in under 4 seconds.
build quality is certainly on par with nikon and  canon’s offerings.
i wish  there was more to say about this thing, but it really is just a great unit for  an almost unbelievable price.
the speedlight feels incredibly solid in the hand, and is made with very nice feeling plastics.
pin it yongnuo introduces improved flash models
however, we can’t keep doing that unless we have your continued support.
the flash will also automatically  zoom between 24mm and 85mm based on the focal length of the lens attached to  your camera.
for some time, yongnuo flashes weren’t compatible with dslr’s  ttl metering systems, which meant you needed to use them in manual mode.
chimera softbox octa speedring for canon speedlites and nikon  speedlights review:
the ittl implementation works  flawlessly, and my shots came out perfectly exposed every time.
yongnuo is currently selling the yn468-ii on amazon for $109.95, and considering that’s $200 less than you’ll pay for nikon’s cheapest speedlight, thesb–700, i really don’t think you can go wrong.
it doesn’t have any latches that lock it into a position, but the clicks feel very solid and i have no concern about them wearing out over time.
yn560-ii and yn468-ii review: ocf gear ttl cords (canon and nikon)
not blazing fast by any means, but quick enough for most scenarios.
not a  big deal, but can be an absolute hassle at times.
i’m not a big flash user, and i almost always prefer available light  for my work, but occasionally you need one to do the job, and the yongnuo  yn468-ii far exceeds what it’s price would lead you to believe.
they’re  generally several hundred dollars less expensive, and often just as good.
if you would like to purchase any of the items mentioned, please do so
the packaging is basic, but very nikon-like in it’s gold and black  glory.
we love to bring you guys the latest and greatest news and gear related stuff.
triggering the flash as a slave worked perfectly, and i experienced no misfires or any issues at all.
it comes with the speedlight in a velvet pouch, along with a snap-on  diffuser and a tabletop stand.
they recently announced a couple new models, and i immediately ordered the very one i’ve been waiting for them to make:the yn468-ii for nikon.
for some time, yongnuo flashes weren’t compatible with dslr’s ttl metering systems, which meant you needed to use them in manual mode.
i’m not a big flash user, and i almost always prefer available light for my work, but occasionally you need one to do the job, and the yongnuo yn468-ii far exceeds what it’s price would lead you to believe.
they’re generally several hundred dollars less expensive, and often just as good.
not blazing fast by any means,  but quick enough for most scenarios.
donate to the phoblographer
the recycle speed is relatively quick, and with fresh batteries, it  consistently from full power in under 4 seconds.
however, we can’t keep doing that unless we have your continued  support.
they have now implemented ttl  into both their canon and nikon flash units, and this yn468-ii is the first of  this series to support nikon’s ittl.
yongnuo claims that the yn468-ii has upgraded buttons, with a more solid  click feel.
pin it related posts: tagged as: nikon, speedlight, ttl, yongnuo previous post: the complete roundup of lens guides written by the phoblographer staff next post: rumor: sony working on “uber-alpha” with square sensor? enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.