so those that think there's a commercial motivation to this  are simply being malicious and are spouting uninformed nonsense.
anything less just obscures and defeats whatever validity  there me be in what you have to say.
as could be expected, a number of ill-mannered individuals with an apparent  axe to grind started commenting on other discussion forums (no guts to do  so here, it would seem) ascribing all sorts of motivations to this, most  of them uncomplimentary if not downright rude and unkind.
there wasn't one on hand.
so i picked two lenses which were at least reasonably close, thenikkor  24-120mm f/3.5-5.6 vr and the canon 24-105mm f/4 is.
how to you frame the shot?
both started shipping within a day or two of each other in late november.
possibly there's a bit more shadow detail in the canon frame though (look at the iris).
rather, this move is intended to expand my abilities, coverage, and therefore audience.
in the end i said, screw it.
both of these might have done a different job on the raw files, but that's something for debate.
but a low light level / high contrast situation like this was pretty good for testing available light type shooting.
i have no idea, since we didn't have one handy that day.
the nikon d300 was also on hand, and so i did some comparison shots with it as well.
some informed sources have said that it will be 24mp and that introduction will be q1 2008, with first shipments in q2.
background regular readers will have noted that i shoot primarily with canon cameras  and lenses.
those judgments  will have to wait for me to spend more time with a d300 and d3, but will follow  in the weeks and months ahead.
how could we not resist the comparison?
they're  platform agnostic.
and, whatever you decide to do, do try and be  grown up and polite.
but a low light level / high contrast situation like this was pretty  good for testing available light type shooting.
of course the canon 1ds mkiii is a 21mp camera and the nikon d3 is a 12mp  camera.
we can't shoot with the same lens on both cameras, at least not with the lens selection we had available that day.
but with the introduction of the d300 and d3 a few months ago, and the commencement of their shipping during the last week of november, '07, i now believe that nikon is back in the game.
same image size or same resolution?
canon has enjoyed a deserved reputation for high image quality,  especially at high iso.
if you're going to disagree  with me, do so to my face.
the 1d mkiii's sensor at 10mp is closer to the d3's 12mp than the 1ds mkiii's 21mp, and the pixels of the nikon are bigger, so theoretically of lower noise.
i had few regrets at the switch through the first 7 years of this decade during the transition to digital, because it's my opinion that with its full frame sensors and superior high iso noise capabilities canon had a clear edge.
the only question is – when might it be introduced, and what will be the pixel count?
and don't lose sight of the fact that you can do so at 5 fps in 14 bit mode, and with 21 megapixel files – the previous domain of medium format.
and lets not forget that by adding nikon to the mix on a regular basis i'm  increasing my work load, not to mention the confusion factor when working in  the field.
i had few regrets at the switch through the first 7 years of this decade  during the transition to digital, because it's my opinion that with its full  frame sensors and superior high iso noise capabilities canon had a clear edge.
let's  just shoot a head and shoulder and see what we get.
it better suites my needs.
and so i did – different iso's, different lenses, different subjects.
the speeds of iso 6400, 12,800 and 25,600 are also possible on the nikon d3, but not on the canon, so there's no comparison to be made at these levels.
100% crop of image at top of this page.
the nikon exposed at 1/50th second and the canon at 1/40th second  – not identical but close enough.
nothing terribly formal, but enough tests, with enough pairs of experienced eyes, both canon and nikon users, to come to some preliminary conclusions.
the shot above and its 100% crop show what the camera is capable of at iso 3200.
if you're one of those people that takes  exception to either my tests, my methodologies, or my conclusions, do us both a  favour.
the speeds of iso  6400, 12,800 and 25,600 are also possible on the nikon d3, but not on the  canon, so there's no comparison to be made at these levels.
but be prepared to defend your  position, just as i will mine.
i don't care for canon's dpp, and haven't yet become familiar  with nikon's capture nx.
so, does this mean that the noise characteristics of the d3(?) will be similar to the d300?
oh no! not a nikon / canon comparison !
possibly, and so that's why i thought it worth including  the d300 in our little experiment.
no rebuttal is warranted, but since words on the net last forever i will make the following comments, just to set the record straight.
the d3 is also closer in price to the 1d mkiii than to the 1ds mkiii.
the nikon exposed at 1/50th second and the canon at 1/40th second – not identical but close enough.
in  about 1996 i switched from 30 years of shooting nikon because i was attracted  to lenses which nikon didn't offer at the time, the canon's t/s and is lines.
what about the nikon d300?
add 20 enthusiastic amateur and professional photographers, and what did you think everyone (including me, a canon shooter, and jay, a nikon shooter) wanted to do?
this kind of sensitivity provides the ability to capture an image when another camera would simply record soot and shadow, or be forced to use a shutter speed so low as to render an unusable image.
december, 2007 update: i forgot to mention that all images were shot raw and were processed in lightroom 1.3.1.
if you're going to disagree with me, do so to my face.
for this reason i recently purchased a  d300 and a few lenses to begin refamiliarizing myself with the current nikon  line, and mentioned this on what's new.
so, this isn't about my needing more cameras, or switching from canon to  nikon, (which i'm not), or having money burning a hole in my pocket.
the nikon d3's low noise edge is also apparent at iso 3200.
so those that think there's a commercial motivation to this are simply being malicious and are spouting uninformed nonsense.
this is where we run into trouble.
in a  16x20" print none of the artifacts seen in the 100% crop above is visible,  and noise is extremely low.
this obviously isn't about advertising, because the only ads on this site (other than my own) are from b&h photo , and they'll happily sell you whatever brand you wish.
some informed sources have said that it will be 24mp  and that introduction will be q1 2008, with first shipments in q2.
as i wrote a little while earlier, based on initial impressions of the  d300, and now their first full-frame cmos camera, the d3, nikon is now back in  the iq game.
i also did shooting at other speeds, but not in a somewhat controlled comparison like this.
the lighting in my gallery is designed to illuminate framed photographs, not for shooting portraits.
and, whatever you decide to do, do try and be grown up and polite.
and  don't lose sight of the fact that you can do so at 5 fps in 14 bit mode, and  with 21 megapixel files – the previous domain of medium format.
and unless you're a total  gearheaded pixel-peeper, getting a photograph in tough conditions is much more  important than any noise complaints.
if you're a nikon user, or thinking of becoming one and don't have the budget for a d3, the d300 is an extremely capable camera, as will be seen in my forthcoming review.
but with some one million unique readers a month this site needs to reflect from time to time the interests of a broader constituency, and in this case i felt that my lack of nikon coverage was doing a disservice to that segment of the community, especially pros for whom nikon is their tool of choice.
noise is more apparent, and though the exposure was 1/50th second vs  the d3's 1/60th second (essentially identical), the image was overall quite a  bit darker, indicating that the iso was likely not what the camera indicated it  was; maybe iso 1000 in reality, and the apparent dynamic range somewhat less as  well.
so, does this mean that the noise characteristics of the d3(?) will be  similar to the d300?
because that's the canon's highest setting without going into a boost mode.
i just had to get that off my chest.
don't do it  on some other site where you know i won't respond.
would that have been a fairer point of comparison?
possibly, and so that's why i thought it worth including the d300 in our little experiment.
as for pixel count, 24mp makes sense if you scale up the 12mp d300's 1.5x  chip.
yes, of course it is, but it's freek'n iso 25,600.
both cameras produced iso 1600 images of astonishing quality.
rather, this move is intended to expand my abilities, coverage, and
aperture was set to f/6.3 and the shots were taken in aperture priority mode at iso 1600.
come onto this site's forum and state your objections here.
regulars on my forum know that i never censor  anything other than spam or obscene language.
but, the d3 is nikon's current flagship, and the 1ds mkiii  is canon's.
i don't care that it's  noisy.
we can't shoot with the same lens on  both cameras, at least not with the lens selection we had available that day.
so nikon d3 with 24-120mm f/3.5-5.6 @ iso 25,600 attendees of the jay maisel seminar at the luminous landscape gallery
i mention this because the day before he arrived in toronto i took delivery of thecanon 1ds mkiii that i had ordered after my madagascar shoot, where i took some some 5,500 frames with a pre-production mkiiis.
i know that if we did the test with one camera at a settable iso and the other boosted i'd hear no end of it.
canon has enjoyed a deserved reputation for high image quality, especially at high iso.
put aside the use of  different lenses and the different sensor resolutions and just look at the  noise and iq characteristics.
and then, on the first day of  the seminar, one of the attendees brought in his just acquired nikon d3, among  the first to be delivered in the us.
would a canon 5d, reputed to be to date the lowest noise 35mm dslr yet, be any better at this speed?
so, this isn't about my needing more cameras, or switching from canon to nikon, (which i'm not), or having money burning a hole in my pocket.
canon 1ds mkiii @ iso 1600.
as i wrote a little while earlier, based on initial impressions of the d300, and now their first full-frame cmos camera, the d3, nikon is now back in the iq game.
possibly  there's a bit more shadow detail in the canon frame though (look at the iris).
sad to say, it's not in the same low noise league as either the d3 or the 1ds mkiii.
there's no free lunch.
nikon d3 at iso 25,600.
compare the nikon d3 and the canon 1ds mkiii, especially at high iso, since the  buzz about the new nikon is its claimed very low noise capability at high iso ( up to iso 25,600).
but now with the d3 nikon has upped the ante, producing  a camera that appears to offer lower noise than canon (at least against the  flagship 1ds mkiii), and higher available speeds as well.
in about 1996 i switched from 30 years of shooting nikon because i was attracted to lenses which nikon didn't offer at the time, the canon's t/s and is lines.
put aside the use of different lenses and the different sensor resolutions and just look at the noise and iq characteristics.
watching a video slide show.
and of course at the same magnifcation level the 1ds mkiii provides a larger image because it has more pixles.
add 20 enthusiastic amateur and  professional photographers, and what did you think everyone (including me,  a canon shooter, and jay, a nikon shooter) wanted to do?
100% enlargement nikon d3 @ iso 1600, 100% enlargement both cameras produced iso 1600 images of astonishing quality.
and then, on the first day of the seminar, one of the attendees brought in his just acquired nikon d3, among the first to be delivered in the us.
both started shipping within a day or two of each other in late  november.
mkiii that i had ordered after my madagascar shoot, where i took some  some 5,500 frames with a pre-production mkiiis.
i don't have all the answers.
would a canon  5d, reputed to be to date the lowest noise 35mm dslr yet, be any better at this  speed?
this made for a difficult if not unfair comparison in many respects.
no rebuttal is warranted, but since words on the net last forever i will  make the following comments, just to set the record straight.
many other pros apparently thought so as well, and as a consequence nikon lost some market share in this segment.
those judgments will have to wait for me to spend more time with a d300 and d3, but will follow in the weeks and months ahead.
this obviously isn't about advertising, because the only  ads on this site (other than my own) are from b&h photo , and they'll happily sell you whatever brand you wish.
before people draw any unwarranted conclusions it needs to be said that the 1ds mkiii is no slouch when it comes to high iso performance.
but now with the d3 nikon has upped the ante, producing a camera that appears to offer lower noise than canon (at least against the flagship 1ds mkiii), and higher available speeds as well.
in a 16x20" print none of the artifacts seen in the 100% crop above is visible, and noise is extremely low.
the nikon doesn't go into a boost mode until above iso 6400.
what about the  canon 1d mkiii?
a higher megapixel full frame chip is absolutely inevitable, and the d300's noise characteristics may give us a hint at what to expect from a higher resolution d3 sensor.
whichever way i do it someone in the online world with greater tribal loyalties than common sense will get pissed off and claim foul, so i'll just do a test that satisfies my curiosity, and people can natter about it one way or the other if they wish.
and what about other performance and operational aspects?
what about the canon 1d mkiii?
but with some one million unique readers a  month this site needs to reflect from time to time the interests of a broader  constituency, and in this case i felt that my lack of nikon coverage was doing  a disservice to that segment of the community, especially pros for whom nikon is their tool of choice.
show page metadata concepts: full-frame digital slr, image sensor, digital single-lens reflex camera, nikon dx format, nikon d300, camera, nikon d700, nikon d3 entities: toronto, their tool, no slouch, madagascar, us, toronto gallery, iso, michael reichmann, jay maisel, jay, d3, d300, 1ds tags: nikon, 1ds mkiii, camera, nikon d3, d300, images, canon 1ds mkiii, high iso, low noise, nikon user, new nikon, canon 1d mkiii, d3 nikon, sensor, current nikon line, consequence nikon, lower noise, noise capabilities canon, jay maisel, boost mode, madagascar shoot, nikon d300, nikon coverage, nikon shooter, nikon outfit, noise characteristics, different lenses, pixel count, resolution d3 sensor, low noise capability, high iso performance, canon cameras, noise 35mm dslr, photograph, low noise edge, low noise league, settable iso, canon shooter, stop noise advantage, canon frame
whichever way i do it
i don't care for canon's dpp, and haven't yet become familiar with nikon's capture nx.
iso 25,600 the photograph at the top of the page was shot at iso 25,600.
aperture was set to f/6.3 and the shots were taken in aperture priority mode at  iso 1600.
if you're one of those people that takes exception to either my tests, my methodologies, or my conclusions, do us both a favour.
nikon d300 @ iso 1600, 100% enlargement sad to say, it's not in the same low noise league as either the d3 or the  1ds mkiii.
i also thought it worth throwing the d300 into this comparison because  clearly the d3 is not the end of the road for nikon's flagship camera line.
the photograph at the top of the page was shot at iso 25,600.
filed under:   essays show page metadata concepts: full-frame digital slr, image sensor, digital  single-lens reflex camera, nikon dx format, nikon d300, camera, nikon d700,  nikon d3 entities: toronto, their tool, no slouch, madagascar, us,  toronto gallery, iso, michael reichmann, jay maisel, jay, d3, d300, 1ds tags: nikon, 1ds mkiii, camera, nikon d3, d300, images,  canon 1ds mkiii, high iso, low noise, nikon user, new nikon, canon 1d mkiii, d3  nikon, sensor, current nikon line, consequence nikon, lower noise, noise  capabilities canon, jay maisel, boost mode, madagascar shoot, nikon d300, nikon  coverage, nikon shooter, nikon outfit, noise characteristics, different lenses,  pixel count, resolution d3 sensor, low noise capability, high iso performance,  canon cameras, noise 35mm dslr, photograph, low noise edge, low noise league,  settable iso, canon shooter, stop noise advantage, canon frame
noise is more apparent, and though the exposure was 1/50th second vs the d3's 1/60th second (essentially identical), the image was overall quite a bit darker, indicating that the iso was likely not what the camera indicated it was; maybe iso 1000 in reality, and the apparent dynamic range somewhat less as well.
i mention this because  the day before he arrived in toronto i took delivery of thecanon 1ds
someone in the online world with greater tribal loyalties than common sense  will get pissed off and claim foul, so i'll just do a test that satisfies my  curiosity, and people can natter about it one way or the other if they wish.
the illumination in the gallery was so low  when this shot was taken that it was too low to read.
december, 2007 update: i forgot to mention that all images were shot raw and were processed in  lightroom 1.3.1.
attendees of the jay maisel seminar at the luminous landscape gallery watching a video slide show.
canon 1ds mkiii @ iso 3200 100% crop at iso 3200 before people draw any unwarranted conclusions it needs to be said that the  1ds mkiii is no slouch when it comes to high iso performance.
nikon d300 with sigma 10-20mm f/4-5.6 @ 10mm and iso 3200
let's just shoot a head and shoulder and see what we get.
but, the d3 is nikon's current flagship, and the 1ds mkiii is canon's.
jay's seminar jay maisel – toronto, december, 2007 iso 1600 over the weekend of december 1 – 2, 2007, my friend and colleague jay  maisel taught a seminar at my toronto gallery / studio.
so i picked two lenses which were at least reasonably close, thenikkor 24-120mm f/3.5-5.6 vr and the canon 24-105mm f/4 is.
the 1d mkiii's sensor at 10mp is closer to the  d3's 12mp than the 1ds mkiii's 21mp, and the pixels of the nikon are bigger, so  theoretically of lower noise.
i  know that if we did the test with one camera at a settable iso and the other  boosted i'd hear no end of it.
regulars on my forum know that i never censor anything other than spam or obscene language.
this kind of sensitivity provides the ability to capture an image when  another camera would simply record soot and shadow, or be forced to use a  shutter speed so low as to render an unusable image.
would that have been a fairer  point of comparison?
both approaches are flawed.
because i have to shoot with something – right?
because that's the canon's highest setting without going into  a boost mode.
one final comment if i may.
i also did shooting at other speeds, but not in  a somewhat controlled comparison like this.
but be prepared to defend your position, just as i will mine.
both of these might have done a different job on the  raw files, but that's something for debate.
the shot above  and its 100% crop show what the camera is capable of at iso 3200.
that means i write about the products and software that cross my desk, or which i personally own and use.
a  higher megapixel full frame chip is absolutely inevitable, and the d300's noise  characteristics may give us a hint at what to expect from a higher resolution  d3 sensor.
i see comparable resolving power and clarity (not absolute resolution, of  course), and at least a one stop noise advantage to the new nikon.
nothing terribly formal, but enough tests, with enough pairs of experienced  eyes, both canon and nikon users, to come to some preliminary conclusions.
the only question is – when might it be introduced, and what  will be the pixel count?
don't do it on some other site where you know i won't respond.
over the weekend of december 1 – 2, 2007, my friend and colleague jay maisel taught a seminar at my toronto gallery / studio.
i see comparable resolving power and clarity (not absolute resolution, of course), and at least a one stop noise advantage to the new nikon.
and, as for those that have asked why, since i'm now going to be putting together a nikon outfit to use along with my canon gear, i didn't get a d3 instead of a d300, the answer is that just as i own a 1ds mkiii rather than a 1d mkiii, i also will want a d3(?) rather than a d3.
the photograph of jay maisel above isn't terribly flattering.
as for pixel count, 24mp makes sense if you scale up the 12mp d300's 1.5x chip.
the d3 is also closer in price to the 1d mkiii  than to the 1ds mkiii.
the nikon d300 was also on hand, and so i did some comparison shots with it  as well.
i don't care that it's noisy.
all rights reserved     this site uses alchemy api for some metadata  retrieval www.alchemyapi.com username:      password:   stay logged in forum login
anything less just obscures and defeats whatever validity there me be in what you have to say.
and of course at  the same magnifcation level the 1ds mkiii provides a larger image because it  has more pixles.
this site is  designed to reflect my personal interests in photography, both the art and the  craft.
if you're a nikon user, or thinking of  becoming one and don't have the budget for a d3, the d300 is an extremely  capable camera, as will be seen in my forthcoming review.
many other pros apparently thought so as well, and as a consequence nikon lost  some market share in this segment.
and again, before anyone disses the d300, i have been doing quite a few iso  1600 and iso 3200 images during the week prior to writing this article, and  find them to be more than acceptable.
the illumination in the gallery was so low when this shot was taken that it was too low to read.
this site is designed to reflect my personal interests in photography, both the art and the craft.
but with the introduction of the d300 and d3 a few months ago, and the  commencement of their shipping during the last week of november, '07, i now  believe that nikon is back in the game.
and lets not forget that by adding nikon to the mix on a regular basis i'm increasing my work load, not to mention the confusion factor when working in the field.
as could be expected, a number of ill-mannered individuals with an apparent axe to grind started commenting on other discussion forums (no guts to do so here, it would seem) ascribing all sorts of motivations to this, most of them uncomplimentary if not downright rude and unkind.
as i found onmy madagascar shoot, you can work at  virtually any iso under any conditions and get usable, saleable images.
compare the nikon d3 and the canon 1ds mkiii, especially at high iso, since the buzz about the new nikon is its claimed very low noise capability at high iso ( up to iso 25,600).
regular readers will have noted that i shoot primarily with canon cameras and lenses.
of course the canon 1ds mkiii is a 21mp camera and the nikon d3 is a 12mp camera.
they're platform agnostic.
for this reason i recently purchased a d300 and a few lenses to begin refamiliarizing myself with the current nikon line, and mentioned this on what's new.
the lighting  in my gallery is designed to illuminate framed photographs, not for shooting  portraits.
and unless you're a total gearheaded pixel-peeper, getting a photograph in tough conditions is much more important than any noise complaints.
i also thought it worth throwing the d300 into this comparison because clearly the d3 is not the end of the road for nikon's flagship camera line.
that means i write about the products and software that cross my desk,  or which i personally own and use.
as i found onmy madagascar shoot, you can work at virtually any iso under any conditions and get usable, saleable images.
and again, before anyone disses the d300, i have been doing quite a few iso 1600 and iso 3200 images during the week prior to writing this article, and find them to be more than acceptable.
and, as for those that have asked why, since i'm now going to be putting  together a nikon outfit to use along with my canon gear, i didn't get a d3  instead of a d300, the answer is that just as i own a 1ds mkiii rather than a  1d mkiii, i also will want a d3(?) rather than a d3.