this means that autofocus will only work with af-s lenses, which are usually more expensive.
with the t3, though, canon has moved the  iso button next to the mode dial, away from its usual position on the top of  cameras.
both cameras come with features designed to help first-time dslr users.
the canon model is particularly bad, and it's  almost impossible to use it at all on autofocus in live mode.
however, a problem with the nikon d3100 is that it doesn't have a built-in af motor.
i'll take a look at the key points on each camera  to help you make a more informed decision.
i really can't understand why canon has chosen to do this, as it means  that iso can't be changed without moving the camera away from the eye.
as the users grow more confident, they can progress to the "advanced"  mode, which guides users toward either the "aperture priority" or  "shutter priority" modes.
nikon d300s nikon d7000 dslr review
which is the better buy?
both cameras are made out of plastic, with the nikon weighing slightly more  than the canon t3.
you can assign one of these functions to the customizable function button at the front of the camera, but it's only one button, unfortunately.
the d3100's system is extremely well thought out, and it is far more advanced than canon's offering.
the  nikon d3100 definitely feels more substantial in the hand.
the  included buttons are nicely laid-out, but maybe that's just because so many  obvious ones are missing.
canon's entry-level dslr offering is the t3.
despite the availability of a variety of dslr manufacturers, the canon versus nikon debate is still going strong.
resolution, controls, and body the nikon d3100 is the winner in the resolution stakes, with 14mp compared  to the canon's 12mp.
the nikon d3100's overall image quality is probably slightly better,  particularly in low light conditions and at high isos, where it performs  exceptionally well for any dslr, let alone an entry-level one.
the nikon d3100 is a hard camera to beat, and, while the canon t3 provides close competition, it doesn't quite cut the mustard!
the d3100's system is extremely well thought out, and it is far more  advanced than canon's offering.
with guide mode, when the d3100 is used in "easy operation" mode,  the user can have the camera choose the required setting for different  situations, such as "sleeping faces" or "distant subjects."
any new user to dslrs would be happy with the results.
this means that autofocus will only work with af-s lenses, which are  usually more expensive.
image quality both cameras perform well straight out of the box at their default jpeg  settings.
a part of the new york times company.
the d3100 isn't perfect,  as i've discussed here, but in terms of image quality and ease of use for  beginners, it's pretty unbeatable.
in actual terms, though, it's only a slight gap, and  you're unlikely to notice much difference between the two.
however, the canon t3 does at least have direct access toiso and white balance on the four-way controller at the back of the camera.
in this article, i'm going to take a look at the two manufacturer's entry-level cameras -- thecanon t3 and the nikon d3100.
the included buttons are nicely laid-out, but maybe that's just because so many obvious ones are missing.
however, the nikon is slightly more compact in size.
if you're not tied into a system, the choice of cameras can seem bewildering.
the canon t3 has the combination of its "basic+" and "creative auto" modes, which allow users to do things such as controlling the aperture (without having to work though technical terms) or choosing the lighting type (setting white balance).
in actual terms, though, it's only a slight gap, and you're unlikely to notice much difference between the two.
as the users grow more confident, they can progress to the "advanced" mode, which guides users toward either the "aperture priority" or "shutter priority" modes.
with the t3, though, canon has moved the iso button next to the mode dial, away from its usual position on the top of cameras.
the d3100 isn't perfect, as i've discussed here, but in terms of image quality and ease of use for beginners, it's pretty unbeatable.
since  the days of 35mm film, the two manufacturers have been close competitors.
traditionally, things seem to see-saw between the two, with each manufacturer  becoming stronger for a while, before fading away to the other.
the t3 does benefit, however, from the addition of the "q" button, which allows for quick access to the rear control screen (appearing on the lcd screen), and fast changing of most shooting parameters.
the t3  does benefit, however, from the addition of the "q"  button, which allows for quick access to the rear control screen  (appearing on the lcd screen), and fast changing of most shooting parameters.
both cameras perform well straight out of the box at their default jpeg settings.
neither camera is perfect when it comes to controls.
autofocus and af points
in this article, i'm going to take a look at the two manufacturer's  entry-level cameras -- thecanon t3 and the nikon d3100.
the nikon d3100 definitely feels more substantial in the hand.
if i was a new user with no ties to any  system, i'd put my money down on the nikon.
the t3 has nine af points, whereas the d3100 comes with 11 af points.
if you're not tied into a system, the choice of cameras can seem  bewildering.
traditionally, things seem to see-saw between the two, with each manufacturer becoming stronger for a while, before fading away to the other.
the canon model is particularly bad, and it's almost impossible to use it at all on autofocus in live mode.
however, the canon t3  does at least have direct access toiso and white balance on the four-way  controller at the back of the camera.
both are accompanied by a simplified  interface that uses the lcd screen to show the projected results when changing  these settings.
with guide mode, when the d3100 is used in "easy operation" mode, the user can have the camera choose the required setting for different situations, such as "sleeping faces" or "distant subjects."
it's a useful feature, but it's not done as well as nikon's guide mode.
canon more images (2)
both cameras are made out of plastic, with the nikon weighing slightly more than the canon t3.
the nikon d3100's overall image quality is probably slightly better, particularly in low light conditions and at high isos, where it performs exceptionally well for any dslr, let alone an entry-level one.
i'll take a look at the key points on each camera to help you make a more informed decision.
if i was a new user with no ties to any system, i'd put my money down on the nikon.
i really can't understand why canon has chosen to do this, as it means that iso can't be changed without moving the camera away from the eye.
the colors on the t3 are perhaps a little more natural than on the d3100, but the nikon's images are sharper than the canon's -- even at base iso settings.
however, a problem with the nikon d3100 is that it doesn't have a built-in  af motor.
you can assign one of these functions to the customizable function  button at the front of the camera, but it's only one button, unfortunately.
the  canon t3 has the combination of its "basic+" and "creative  auto" modes, which allow users to do things such as controlling the  aperture (without having to work though technical terms) or choosing the  lighting type (setting white balance).
the nikon d3100 is the winner in the resolution stakes, with 14mp compared to the canon's 12mp.
beginners guides both cameras come with features designed to help first-time dslr users.
in conclusion the nikon d3100 is a hard camera to beat, and, while the canon t3 provides  close competition, it doesn't quite cut the mustard!
the nikon d3100, in comparison, has no direct access to iso or white balance.
both cameras are fast and accurate in normal point and shoot mode, but both slow down in live view and movie mode.
since the days of 35mm film, the two manufacturers have been close competitors.
discuss in my forum from jo plumridge, former contributing writersee more about: canon's entry-level dslr offering is the t3.canon more images (2)
the nikon d3100, in comparison, has no direct access to iso or white  balance.
despite the availability of a variety of dslr manufacturers,  the canon versus nikon debate is still going strong.
both  cameras are fast and accurate in normal point and shoot mode, but both slow  down in live view and movie mode.
suggested reading canon 7d vs.
both are accompanied by a simplified interface that uses the lcd screen to show the projected results when changing these settings.
the colors on the t3 are perhaps a little more natural than on the d3100,  but the nikon's images are sharper than the canon's -- even at base iso  settings.