i  enjoy having quick access to functions but do you really need a dedicated  button for the d-range/auto hdr feature?
you’d think that others would get on board the sweep pano, after all most dslrs have hdr now so why not sweep pano?
what i mean by progressive features is thea55 offers users that may be new to dslrs or advanced cameras the ability to just pick up the camera and make beautiful photos.
i enjoy having quick access to functions but do you really need a dedicated button for the d-range/auto hdr feature?
testing day 1 – getting to know the a55 day 2 – special features of the a55 day 3 – tourist shooting with the a55 day 4 – shooting video and testing the kit and 35mm
thankfully,sony actually made these features easy to use but  more importantly, they are truly helpful.
while it’s not as small as amicro four  thirds camera or even the sony nex, it is one of the smaller dslrs on the  market.
but more importantly, thea55 gives users the means to grow as a  photographer.
it also makes getting overhead shots a little more difficult that it has to be.
it almost encourages the user to try different modes and use it’s different functions.
the video from the a55 isn’t perfect, but it is pretty darn good for a consumer camera.
thankfully the evf can display the same shooting information that  is available on the external screen.
- electronic viewfinder: while i’d much rather use the external screen, i’m very happy thatsony included an evf on the a55.
- the external screen: yes, i know i have the screen in the likes and
it’s small, light and more importantly it has  very good iq.
dislikes buttons and button layout: while the a55 is very easy to use, it is  littered with buttons.
i carried thea55 around for hours and i hardly noticed it was there.
several interesting blogs « sonyalphaa55 gnye speaking as a photography newbie, i’ve been very happy with my a55.
shooting with the articulating screen  makes you want to shoot from strange angles and gives you a real sense of  freedom.
pin it reasons why the sony nex-c3 may be really awesome field review: sony a55 (day 1)
thea55 on the other hand offers excellent auto settings  that help guide the user to achieve the type of shot they desire.
but more importantly, thea55 gives users the means to grow as a photographer.
my favorite of the bunch had to be  sweep panorama.
- special features: i thought some of the special features were going to be kind of gimmicky.
instead of rambling on and repeating the previous days’ posts, i’ve made a list of my likes and dislikes.
several interesting blogs « sonyalphaa55 - gnye speaking as a photography newbie, i’ve been very happy with my a55.
seeday 2 for more info on each of the special features.
- size and weight: most people do not like to take their camera with them for two reasons, size and weight.
field review: sony a55 (day 4) field review: sony a55 (day 2) tagged as: camera review, complete review, consumer camera, dslr, dslr video ,nex 5, sony a55, sony photography http://www.photoblog.ie patrick dinneen nice camera, i like the flip out screen and sweep pano.
like i said in day 1, the a55 is a feature packed camera.
i’m not sure if this can be chalked up to the fancy semi-transparent mirror or if is a software issue, butsony needs to address this issue.
please keep in mind that some of these may be a bit subjective, the following are simply my thoughts after using the camera for several days.
previous post: the complete fujifilm x100 review next post: b&h has fuji x100s in stock copyright © 2008–2012 wordpress admin
you  have way more lenses to choose from, iq is much better, you get more features,  in-body image stabilization, built in flash, and the list goes on and on.
i could see this screen getting in  the way for anyone using a tripod.
once users get comfortable shooting in auto+ the next natural step is to move to one of the pasm modes.
i think that  was well thought out.
testing - day 1 – getting to know the a55 - day 2 – special features of the a55 - day 3 – tourist shooting with the a55 - day 4 – shooting video and testing the kit and 35mm
electronic viewfinder: while i’d much rather use the external  screen, i’m very happy thatsony included an evf on the a55.
it almost encourages the user to try different modes  and use it’s different functions.
taking the fear out of photography is  key for people that are starting out or trying to get better and i think thea55  excels in this area.
- gnye speaking as a photography newbie, i’ve been very happy with my a55.
tagged as: camera review, complete review, consumer camera, dslr, dslr video ,nex 5, sony a55, sony photography - http://www.photoblog.ie patrick dinneen nice camera, i like the flip out screen and sweep pano.
the sony a55 vs. sony nex
you have way more lenses to choose from, iq is much better, you get more features, in-body image stabilization, built in flash, and the list goes on and on.
there are  certain situations where an evf is invaluable, like when shooting in the  blazing sun.
auto focus: hands down my biggest complaint with the a55 is the af.
i just want to make it clear that you may encounter the occasional af  hiccup.
f/1.8 sam - day 5 – low light shooting and iso tests likes - external screen: the bright, clear and beautiful external screen is probably my favorite part of thea55.
so i probably would have adapted to the body
i think that was well thought out.
but thea55 doesn’t stop there.
you’d think that  others would get on board the sweep pano, after all most dslrs have hdr now so  why not sweep pano?
if you would like to purchase any of the items  mentioned, please do so by clicking our links first and then purchasing the  items as we then get a small portion of the sale to help run the website.
if you would like to purchase any of the items mentioned, please do so by clicking our links first and then purchasing the items as we then get a small portion of the sale to help run the website.
even when manually selecting the af point, thea55 would struggle to focus at times.
but i can’t give up my pentax system just for those two features.
but thea55  doesn’t stop there.
please keep in mind that some of these may be a bit subjective, the following  are simply my thoughts after using the camera for several days.
on top of that,sony has included helpful shooting info and overlays which can be selected by the user when needed.
taking the fear out of photography is key for people that are starting out or trying to get better and i think thea55 excels in this area.
i’m happy to report that i was pleasantly  surprised by this innovative little camera.
so what are my overall  thoughts on the camera?
when i first received the a55 i thought, ok so why not save a couple hundred bucks and go for thenex?
now, i don’t want to scare people off by making them  think thea55 can’t focus to save it’s life because that’s not  the case.
thea55 on the other hand offers excellent auto settings that help guide the user to achieve the type of shot they desire.
special features: i thought some of the special features were going to be  kind of gimmicky.
she would most likely get discouraged and give up on the camera.
it also makes getting overhead shots a  little more difficult that it has to be.
now that i’ve spent some time with the  a55, i can now see that these are two very different cameras.
on top of that,sony has included helpful shooting info and overlays  which can be selected by the user when needed.
the complete sony a55 review by mike pouliot on may 12, 2011 sadly, my time with the a55 has come to an end.
i used thea55 for over a week and it never annoyed me to the point that i would have returned it if i had purchased the camera with my own money.
now, i don’t want to scare people off by making them think thea55 can’t focus to save it’s life because that’s not the case.
also, please follow us on facebook, flickr and twitter.
it’s small, light and more importantly it has very good iq.
who is the sony a55 for?
the external screen: yes, i know i have the screen in the likes and
the video from the a55 isn’t perfect, but it is pretty darn  good for a consumer camera.
pin it related posts: - reasons why the sony nex-c3 may be really awesome - field review: sony a55 (day 1) - field review: sony a55
if access to the shutter and aperture were  available during shooting i thinksony would have hit a home run with the a55 ‘s video abilities.
from full auto mode, you  can advance to the auto+ mode which allows you to delve into some of the  additional functions like auto hdr.
previous post: the complete fujifilm x100 review next post: b&h has fuji x100s in stock donate to the phoblographer
- progressive features: i think the real winning trait of the a55 is something i’m going to call “progressive features”.
- auto focus: hands down my biggest complaint with the a55 is the af.
chris reviewed the nex-5 a while back.
progressive features: i think the real winning trait of the a55 is  something i’m going to call “progressive features”.
i couldn’t imagine giving mycanon 5d to my mom and expect  her to be able to use it effectively.
while  it worked well most of the time, it did refuse to lock onto a subject on  several occasions.
even after a few days of shooting, i was still hitting  buttons while just trying to grip the camera.
she would most likely get discouraged and  give up on the camera.
even after a few days of shooting, i was still hitting buttons while just trying to grip the camera.
i just want to make it clear that you may encounter the occasional af hiccup.
there are certain situations where an evf is invaluable, like when shooting in the blazing sun.
if access to the shutter and aperture were available during shooting i thinksony would have hit a home run with the a55 ‘s video abilities.
but it was  slightly annoying.
please support the phoblographer we love to bring you guys the latest and greatest news and gear related stuff.
however, we can’t keep doing that unless we have your continued support.
i could even see some of my technically challenged family  and friends learning and growing with this camera.
again, i only had thea55 for a  little over a week
i used thea55 for over a week and it never annoyed me to the point that  i would have returned it if i had purchased the camera with my own money.
again, i only had thea55 for a little over a week
the special features and some of the more common features make this an ideal camera for someone who is stepping up from a p&s or advanced p&s camera.
but i wish the battery life were longer.
i’m not sure if this can be chalked up to the  fancy semi-transparent mirror or if is a software issue, butsony needs to  address this issue.
i couldn’t imagine giving mycanon 5d to my mom and expect her to be able to use it effectively.
thankfully,sony actually made these features easy to use but more importantly, they are truly helpful.
instead of rambling on and repeating the  previous days’ posts, i’ve made a list of my likes and dislikes.
once users get comfortable shooting in  auto+ the next natural step is to move to one of the pasm modes.
dislikes - buttons and button layout: while the a55 is very easy to use, it is littered with buttons.
the auto modes work well but on top of the plain auto modessony has added other features which help the user get the most out of the camera.
please support the phoblographer we love to bring you guys the latest and greatest news  and gear related stuff.
but i can’t  give up my pentax system just for those two features.
f/1.8 sam day 5 – low light shooting and iso tests likes external screen: the bright, clear and beautiful external screen is  probably my favorite part of thea55.
but it was slightly annoying.
the new firmware version 2.0 allows the d-range button to be reassigned,
shooting with the articulating screen makes you want to shoot from strange angles and gives you a real sense of freedom.
- home - staff bio and contact info - reviews index - disclaimer - features - news - useful photography tip the phoblographer
dislikes butsony made one big mistake with this, the swivel for the screen should be on the side and not the bottom.
what i  mean by progressive features is thea55 offers users that may be new to dslrs or  advanced cameras the ability to just pick up the camera and make beautiful  photos.
i could even see some of my technically challenged family and friends learning and growing with this camera.
if you are looking to upgrade from a p&s or advanced p&s
now that i’ve spent some time with the a55, i can now see that these are two very different cameras.
it’s fast, easy to use and it produces excellent photos and video.
and you want your next camera to be able to grow with you, go for thea55.
size and weight: most people do not like to take their camera with them  for two reasons, size and weight.
so what are my overall thoughts on the camera?
thankfully the evf can display the same shooting information that is available on the external screen.
i could see this screen getting in the way for anyone using a tripod.
gnye speaking as a photography newbie, i’ve been very happy with my a55.
the special  features and some of the more common features make this an ideal camera for  someone who is stepping up from a p&s or advanced p&s camera.
if you are  stepping up from a point and shoot (p&s) and you don’t think  you’ll ever really need anything beyond what an advanced p&s can  offer, than go with thenex.
my favorite of the bunch had to be sweep panorama.
also, please follow us on facebook, flickr and twitter.
(day 4) - field review: sony a55 (day 2)
however, we can’t keep doing that unless we have  your continued support.
my other beef is the pure amount of buttons on thea55.
when i first received the a55 i thought, ok so why not save a couple  hundred bucks and go for thenex?
i’m happy to report that i was pleasantly surprised by this innovative little camera.
even when manually selecting the af point, thea55 would  struggle to focus at times.
while it’s not as small as amicro four thirds camera or even the sony nex, it is one of the smaller dslrs on the market.
while it worked well most of the time, it did refuse to lock onto a subject on several occasions.
it’s fast, easy to use and it  produces excellent photos and video.
dislikes butsony made one big mistake with this, the swivel for the screen  should be on the side and not the bottom.
if you are stepping up from a point and shoot (p&s) and you don’t think you’ll ever really need anything beyond what an advanced p&s can offer, than go with thenex.
from full auto mode, you can advance to the auto+ mode which allows you to delve into some of the additional functions like auto hdr.
my favorite is the on screen electronic level…no more crooked shots.
my favorite is the on screen  electronic level…no more crooked shots.
the auto  modes work well but on top of the plain auto modessony has added other features  which help the user get the most out of the camera.