a button has been added to your photo page which has share links to blogger, tumblr, twitter, facebook, wordpress etc.
you can even set up accounts to automatically share  any public image uploads directly to your facebook feed.
new sharing features on flickr flickr has recently made it easier to share your photos with more places  from their site.
i am not a fan offacebook
to help organize you  images, you can use tags, enabling image seekers to find your images relate to  particular topics, like coffee or robots.
we previously had a posting on how to get more page views on flickr, but i wanted to go into the social media side of things.
there are groups for that.
flickr has recently made it easier to share your photos with more places from their site.
also, please follow us on facebook, flickr and twitter.
to help organize you images, you can use tags, enabling image seekers to find your images relate to particular topics, like coffee or robots.
flickr can be a chaotic mess without organization.
we previously had a  posting on how to get more page views on flickr, but i wanted to go into  the social media side of things.
it’s very difficult for me to imagine not sharing my photography.
talk about your photography.
here on the phoblographer, we highlight images from our flickr group because there are a lot of photographers, in our group, producing great images.
flickr is a great place to discuss your images with like minded photographers.
however, we can’t keep doing that unless we have your continued support.
so flickr is my site of choice for sharing my photography.
the key is to follow instructions of the groups when you sign up for them.
a button has been added to your photo page which has share  links to blogger, tumblr, twitter, facebook, wordpress etc.
have a  particular camera like anikon d7000 or canon 7d?
organizing you helps people make sense of you images and gives them the ability to navigate through things easier.
copyright © 2008–2012 wordpress admin
organization flickr can be a chaotic mess without organization.
organizing you helps people make sense of you images and gives them the ability  to navigate through things easier.
it’s very difficult for me to  imagine not sharing my photography.
the key is to follow instructions of the  groups when you sign up for them.
remark on other users’ photography and share their images as well as your own.
image sets can be displayed as  slideshows and be shared by embedding into a website.
remark on other users’ photography and share their images as well as your  own.
please support the phoblographer we love to bring you guys the latest and greatest news  and gear related stuff.
if a group requires you to insert a tag in your photo, do so.
this will help increase your image views and get you feedback.
collections, then, can be further grouped into higher-order collections.
the phoblographer by gevon servo on may 4, 2011 flickr is a great place to share your photography.
enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
when users are signed  out they can also share public and safe photos they see on flickr directly to  their twitter and facebook accounts.
there are even groups for particular lenses like the35mm or 50mm.
in essence there are thousands of groups to share you images with.
you can even set up accounts to automatically share any public image uploads directly to your facebook feed.
have a particular camera like anikon d7000 or canon 7d?
do this to make sure you are sharing the way  the admins ask.
there is a clear difference between photography for profit and photography for sharing.
be social, just do not place an image there hoping people will comment.
i am not a fan offacebook so flickr is my  site of choice for sharing my photography.
flickr is social media for photogs be social, just do not place an image there hoping people will comment.
some groups like b&h even hold cool contests.
there is a huge community aspect to photography.
on sharing photos on flickr by gevon servo on may 4, 2011 flickr is a great place to share your photography.
you can share  individual photos, sets, groups, or your photo-stream with facebook friends  while keeping them private.
some groups only require you to chat with the other people there and comment on  the images.
for more information on exactly what has  changed at flickr check out this faq.
if you like foodie work, there is a group for that.
image sets can be displayed as slideshows and be shared by embedding into a website.
flickr has also  given you a great deal of control on how you share your photos.
pin it related posts: tagged as: blogging, facebook, flickr, groups, how-to, photography, sharing, tags, twitter pingback: daily digest for friday, may 6, 2011 | henry's photo club previous post: the phoblographer’s awesome guide to mother’s day gifts next post: olympus ep-2 or fujifilm x100: which photo is which?
there is a clear difference between  photography for profit and photography for sharing.
in  essence there are thousands of groups to share you images with.
for more information on exactly what has changed at flickr check out this faq.
do this to make sure you are sharing the way the admins ask.
if you would like to purchase any of the items  mentioned, please do so by clicking our links first and then purchasing the  items as we then get a small portion of the sale to help run the website.
if you would like to purchase any of the items mentioned, please do so by clicking our links first and then purchasing the items as we then get a small portion of the sale to help run the website.
also, please follow us on facebook, flickr and twitter.
some groups only require you to chat with the other people there and comment on the images.
if you like foodie work, there is a group for that.
however, we can’t keep doing that unless we have  your continued support.
we love to bring you guys the latest and greatest news and gear related stuff.
here on the phoblographer, we highlight  images from our flickr group because there are a lot of photographers, in our  group, producing great images.
when users are signed out they can also share public and safe photos they see on flickr directly to their twitter and facebook accounts.
you can share individual photos, sets, groups, or your photo-stream with facebook friends while keeping them private.
there are groups for  that.
some groups  like b&h even hold cool contests.
flickr has also given you a great deal of control on how you share your photos.
flickr lets your organize  your photos into sets and then organize those sets into collections.
flickr lets your organize your photos into sets and then organize those sets into collections.
groups flickr is a great place to discuss your images with like minded  photographers.