in a press release sent out today, they released some interesting statistics.
scanning…that’s  another story.
the above screenshot was taken from a press release i received from them today.
previous post: review: photogenic fresnel lighting modifier enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
with  quite a few different films, it is mind boggling that the company is also  pre-announcing that they have more film to come.
if the statistics indeed totally accurate, then that’s all quite  impressive.
you all should remember that world pinhole day is coming up soon too.
in a world where kodak and fujifilm are both cutting back on film  (with ilford perhaps being the only othermajor brand still around),  lomography is selling film as easily the internet sells bacon to hipsters.
as a personal customer of the company, i actually can agree that they do an  excellent job with the development of their film.
as a personal customer of the company, i actually can agree that they do an excellent job with the development of their film.
the community has lots of cool photos and is a pretty neat place to check out.
if the statistics indeed totally accurate, then that’s all quite impressive.
the above screenshot was taken from a press release i received from them  today.
the impossible project alsodominates when it comes to the instant photo field; at least when one walks all around new york do they see those products in the hands of so many people.
lomography partners with so many excellent retailers such as urban outfitters.
thanks for sharing this release so hopefully more people will have one more outlet to get their film!
in a press  release sent out today, they released some interesting statistics.
the impossible project  alsodominates when it comes to the instant photo field; at least when one walks  all around new york do they see those products in the hands of so many people.
instead of bashing folks who sell film for stupid reasons, we should all be glad it’s still around and support those who are keeping it alive!
i personally still don’t think there is a thing in the world that can touch the quality of medium format black and white film: especially with a mamiya 7 ii.
in the end though; it’s really quite nice to know that as a film  shooter myself (social media coordinator gevonloves film; so does copy editor  julius; and news editor felix; and i’m smitten with portra after spending  a while with it), there is someone out there trying to ensure that i can keep  experimenting with it.
pin it related posts: tagged as: film, fujifilm, impossible project, kodak, lomography, sales they have my business…so many people are quick to put lomography down but their customer service is amazing and they love shelling out piggies for the store!
the phoblographer by chris gampat on march 15, 2012 it seems that i was wrong and ap was right: even though kodak announced the death of ektachrome and their slide films followed by an increase in prices, lomography wants people to know that film is still alive and well.
with quite a few different films, it is mind boggling that the company is also pre-announcing that they have more film to come.
in a world where kodak and fujifilm are both cutting back on film (with ilford perhaps being the only othermajor brand still around), lomography is selling film as easily the internet sells bacon to hipsters.
it seems that i was wrong and ap was right: even though kodak announced the  death of ektachrome and their slide films followed by an increase in prices,  lomography wants people to know that film is still alive and well.
lomography lets people know that they still do very well with film by chris gampat on march 15, 2012
scanning…that’s another story.
in the end though; it’s really quite nice to know that as a film shooter myself (social media coordinator gevonloves film; so does copy editor julius; and news editor felix; and i’m smitten with portra after spending a while with it), there is someone out there trying to ensure that i can keep experimenting with it.
i personally still don’t think there is a thing in  the world that can touch the quality of medium format black and white film: especially with a mamiya 7 ii.
they’re not the only ones that do well though.
copyright © 2008–2012 wordpress admin
lomography partners with so many excellent retailers  such as urban outfitters.
i recently bought 8 packages of various films–including a pack of tungsten which retails for just under $25–for $30 including shipping because of the piggies i accumulated.