the nikon pictures works more brilianter because no back light effect.
also, i was wondering if you did a test with these on manual for those who only shoot on m. thanks, great article.
is everything else equal or did the cameras also add to the differences?
pin it samples from the new nikon 85mm f1.8 on the nikon d5100 which one: canon 50mm f1.4 or 85mm f1.8 lens for portrait photography which one?
i noticed that when i brought them into lightroom.
this lens for canon is on my list.
being a canon 5d mk ii and 85mm f1.8 usm owner, i decided to put the  two lenses in a non-scientific and totally practical test using all available  light at around 7pm in nyc and only shooting at f4 and wider for a portrait.
nikon f1.8 f2 f2.8 f4 canon f1.8 f2 f2.8 f4
but in this test, i let the cameras do all the work at aperture priority to  simulate their metering methods in real life as well.
in the export process,  they were resized to 1.5mb on export and 300dpi. image samples
sigma 85mm f1.4 or canon 85mm f1.8 for portrait photography very quick test: sigma 85mm f1.4 vs canon 85mm f1.2 l (first impressions) can you figure this out?
sigma 85mm f1.4 vs canon 85mm f1.8 lens comparison tagged as: 5d mk ii, 85mm f1.8, canon, comparison, d700, nikon, sharpness frans ma nikon!
the canon images may be  darker and therefore also have a perceived better sharpness, but it’s not  really true.
the new nikon 85mm f1.8 is far  newer than the canon version: which actually dates back to the film days.
nikon’s front filter thread is just a bit larger than canon’s and  the overall feel of the lens is a bit less plasticy.
the  nikon pictures works more brilianter because no back light effect.
pics explain ‘em all i like the nikon-shots the best, but why are the canon pics so dark?
please support the phoblographer we love to bring you guys the latest and greatest news and  gear related stuff.
indeed, it has often been touted as the company’s fastest focusing lens.
a known problem with it though is the color fringing wide open; but this is also a problem that plague’s nikon’s optics as shown in theprevious test.
in the export process, they were resized to 1.5mb on export and 300dpi.
i tried to shoot this test during the golden hour.
i set both cameras to aperture priority and focused on the same spot of dennis’s eye.
nikon’s metering is better.
for its 645 system enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
chrisgampat agreed das completely disagree.
agreed completely disagree.
gear used ergonomics both 85mm f1.8 lenses are very similar.
however, we can’t keep doing that unless we have your  continued support.
however, we can’t keep doing that unless we have your continued support.
at this point though, i’d like to remind all the forum readers and  people that like to generally sit there and bitch about minor problems like  this that those issues are generally easily fixed in post-production software.
both 85mm f1.8 lenses are very similar.
i think the pictures of canon for this reason are darker.
if you would like to purchase any of the items mentioned,  please do so by clicking our links first and then purchasing the items as we  then get a small portion of the sale to help run the website.
the light  sky works like back light and affects themselves naturally negatively.
the new nikon 85mm f1.8 is far newer than the canon version: which actually dates back to the film days.
copyright © 2008–2012 wordpress admin
battle of the 85mm lenses: canon 85mm f1.8 vs nikon 85mm f1.8 by chris gampat on march 25, 2012 i was recently able to test fire and show a couple of sample images with  the new nikon 85mm f1.8 on my d5100, however i also was able to get my hands on  a d700.
for its 645 system donate to the phoblographer
also, i was wondering if you did a test with these on manual for those who  only shoot on m. thanks, great article.
though their meter readings were very slightly off in  aperture priority, it should be noted that in general, canon and nikon do have  slightly different metering algorithms and this is just part of how they work.
could i have made the exposures the same?
so what are your thoughts?
but the  nikon seems to be much sharper — looks like the canon is not properly  focused or needs a micro-focus adjustment).
process of the test i tried to shoot this test during the golden hour.
interestingly, both lens focusing rings feel identical.
for this reason when  i’m using my nikon cameras, i always usually set the camera to be -1/3  and canon i overexpose by around 2/3 of a stop.
for  this reason i think the comparison is difficult and not fair.
but in general, canon tends to underexpose at a given exposure level.
for this reason when i’m using my nikon cameras, i always usually set the camera to be -1/3 and canon i overexpose by around 2/3 of a stop.
i am fansinated by how still the guy is in both sets of pics i also noticed that the canon shots were darker but assumed you had taken them after the nikon shots and it may have been getting darker out.
most of new york city is  covered in buildings, and therefore needed to shoot at iso 800 because of the  diffused shadow lighting around the area.
could i have made the  exposures the same?
at this point though, i’d like to remind all the forum readers and people that like to generally sit there and bitch about minor problems like this that those issues are generally easily fixed in post-production software.
the images were then brought into lightroom 4 beta and had the clarity and  sharpness adjusted the exact same amount for each image.
spoorthyvemula i am fansinated by how still the guy is in both sets of pics theresa z i also noticed that the canon shots were darker but assumed you had taken  them after the nikon shots and it may have been getting darker out.
let us know in the comments below.
the canon pics have more sky in the background, for this reason the comparison is difficult and not fair.
i was looking more for clarity at the f stop you had it on.
nikon’s front filter thread is just a bit larger than canon’s and the overall feel of the lens is a bit less plasticy.
the canon ones are pretty alright  on their own, but seen alongside the nikon, they just look way harsher.
indeed, it has often been  touted as the company’s fastest focusing lens.
the canon images may be darker and therefore also have a perceived better sharpness, but it’s not really true.
but in this test, i let the cameras do all the work at aperture priority to simulate their metering methods in real life as well.
a known problem with it  though is the color fringing wide open; but this is also a problem that  plague’s nikon’s optics as shown in theprevious test.
chrisgampat i noticed that when i brought them into lightroom.
i  stopped at f4 for this test.
so how did the two lenses perform?
both lenses focus extremely fast, though in real life practice i felt that canon’s 85mm f1.8 is still the current champ.
however, i’ve always  generally felt that nikon gear feels more rugged; but that’s just my  personal opinion.
previous post: rumor: sony working on “uber-alpha” with square  sensor?
the nikon has much more pleasing bokeh.
the canon ones are pretty alright on their own, but seen alongside the nikon, they just look way harsher.
but the nikon seems to be much sharper — looks like the canon is not properly focused or needs a micro-focus adjustment).
the canon has better (sonnar-like) bokeh.
typically portraits like this are shot anywhere from wide open to f5.6.
previous post: rumor: sony working on “uber-alpha” with square sensor?
most of new york city is covered in buildings, and therefore needed to shoot at iso 800 because of the diffused shadow lighting around the area.
what’s important is the subject matter in focus?
still though, i’d be doing an injustice if i didn’t report on it.
pics explain ‘em all http://www.livingsmart.dk kenneth wedmore lund i like the nikon-shots the best, but why are the canon pics so dark?
herr_synnberg the nikon has much more pleasing bokeh.
i was  looking more for clarity at the f stop you had it on.
the light sky works like back light and affects themselves naturally negatively.
the  non-round bokeh balls once stopped down doesn’t help either.
if you would like to purchase any of the items mentioned, please do so by clicking our links first and then purchasing the items as we then get a small portion of the sale to help run the website.
the images were then brought into lightroom 4 beta and had the clarity and sharpness adjusted the exact same amount for each image.
pin it related posts: tagged as: 5d mk ii, 85mm f1.8, canon, comparison, d700, nikon, sharpness nikon!
the phoblographer by chris gampat on march 25, 2012 i was recently able to test fire and show a couple of sample images with the new nikon 85mm f1.8 on my d5100, however i also was able to get my hands on a d700.
but in general, canon tends to underexpose at a  given exposure level.
i set both cameras to aperture priority and focused on the same spot of  dennis’s eye.
though their meter readings were very slightly off in aperture priority, it should be noted that in general, canon and nikon do have slightly different metering algorithms and this is just part of how they work.
next post: pentax introduces new 25mm f4 wide-angle lens
we love to bring you guys the latest and greatest news and gear related stuff.
for this reason i think the comparison is difficult and not fair.
engels-foto the canon pics have  more sky in the background, for this reason  the comparison is difficult and not fair.
being a canon 5d mk ii and 85mm f1.8 usm owner, i decided to put the two lenses in a non-scientific and totally practical test using all available light at around 7pm in nyc and only shooting at f4 and wider for a portrait.
however, i’ve always generally felt that nikon gear feels more rugged; but that’s just my personal opinion.
i stopped at f4 for this test.
both lenses focus extremely fast, though in real life practice i felt that  canon’s 85mm f1.8 is still the current champ.
the non-round bokeh balls once stopped down doesn’t help either.