but the d800 takes a step closer with a variant called the  d800e where the anti-aliasing filter is removed.
of course, the5d mark ii  is older, so you can expect some specs to be easily beatable, but there's  plenty of rumours circulating about the5d mark iii (or 5d x as it may also be  called)...
it can now focus down to a  light level of -2ev and it still offers 11 af points even with lenses with a  maximum aperture of f8.
it's standard practice for  medium-format cameras and it makes ultra-fine detail even sharper, though you  will need to use software filters to remove moire effects in shots with fine,  regular patterns, like fabrics.
rod lawton is nphoto's technique editor, so obviously he's biased towards nikons.
except that he's spent the previous ten years reviewing every camera  under the sun, and has always regarded the eos 5d mark ii as a landmark camera,
but the d800 steams in with multiple frame sizes for different focal length and depth of field effects, a 60p/50p 1280 x 720 slo-mo mode, clean, uncompressed hdmi output and the thing videographers have been screaming for in a d-slr - an audio jack for monitoring sound while filming.
canon did usher in a new 100,000k-pixel sensor with thecanon eos 1dx, though.
5d mark iii release date, specs, price and more our guide to the best new cameras plus get the best digital slr for your needs find a review find the best powershot camera for your needs get the best digital camera for your needs what do you think of the new ipad?
sign up athttp://www.techradar.com/register follow techradar cameras on twitter * find us on facebook * add us on  google+ tags: canon, 5d mark ii, 5d x, 5d mark iii, nikon d800, semi pro,  full frame, dslr, nikon, cameras tweet
autofocus once, the 5d mark ii's antediluvian 9-point af system (plus 6 assist af  points) must have seemed all right, but the d800's enhanced multi-cam fx3500  unit has 51 af points, with 15 cross-type sensors.
except that he's spent the previous ten years reviewing every camera under the sun, and has always regarded the eos 5d mark ii as a landmark camera, so maybe he's not biased after all... ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- liked this?
it's just 100,000-pixel, or 100k.
current eos 5d mark iii rumours predict either 19 af  points, like the eos 7d, or the eos-1dx's 61-point system, but even that can't  match the d800's low-light/small aperture af capabilities.
pricing and availability
submit first look at new semi-pro, full-frame dslr 36.3mp semi-pro camera explored is the eos
current eos 5d mark iii rumours predict either 19 af points, like the eos 7d, or the eos-1dx's 61-point system, but even that can't match the d800's low-light/small aperture af capabilities.
on paper, there's not much in it since both shoot full hd video and a procession of firmware updates has kept the 5d ahead of the game.
even so, the d800's brand new 91k-pixel metering sensor sounds impressive.
two slots (and two formats) are better than one.
what's significant is that the eos 1d x costs more than the d4, so if that  pattern is repeated, the eos 5d mark ii replacement will cost more than the  d800.
but the d800's 36 million pixels leave the canon for dead, and unless the  rumours about the 5d mark iii's unchanged 21 megapixel resolution are wrong,  canon's in trouble.
so maybe he's not biased after all... ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- liked this?
canon did usher in a new 100,000k-pixel sensor with thecanon  eos 1dx, though.
have a look in our nikon d800 vs canon eos 5d mark ii/iii head to head.
a worthy successor to the original full frame dslr?
then check out best dslr: top cameras by price and brand sign up for techradar's free week in tech newsletter get the best tech stories of the week, plus the most popular news and reviews  delivered straight to your inbox.
what's significant is that the eos 1d x costs more than the d4, so if that pattern is repeated, the eos 5d mark ii replacement will cost more than the d800.
the 5d mark ii takes a compact flash card.
if you are thinking of buying the d800 for video then do not buy the d800e the removal of the anti aliasing is a bad thing for video stick with the d800 alert a moderator you need to log in or register to post comments by submitting this form you agree to our terms of use and so are legally responsible for anything you submit.
the d800 has two card  slots, one for cf (udma 7 compatible) and one for sd/sdhc/sdxc, and you can use  them for extra capacity, backups, one for jpegs and one for raw and so on.
rod lawton is nphoto's technique editor, so obviously he's biased towards  nikons.
two  slots (and two formats) are better than one.
it's standard practice for medium-format cameras and it makes ultra-fine detail even sharper, though you will need to use software filters to remove moire effects in shots with fine, regular patterns, like fabrics.
medium-format quality there's more to medium-format than pixels - the sensor size makes a major  difference too.
alert a moderator february 8th 1.
once, the 5d mark ii's antediluvian 9-point af system (plus 6 assist af points) must have seemed all right, but the d800's enhanced multi-cam fx3500 unit has 51 af points, with 15 cross-type sensors.
sign up athttp://www.techradar.com/register follow techradar cameras on twitter * find us on facebook * add us on google+tags: canon, 5d mark ii, 5d x, 5d mark iii, nikon d800, semi pro, full frame, dslr, nikon, cameras february 16th 2.
with nikon finally unleashing its d800 semi-pro full-frame dslr on the market, canon users are left wondering when an upgrade to the much loved 5d mark ii will be appearing.
in the meantime, could the impressive specs on board the nikon d800 potentially be enough to kill off its biggest rival?
nikon d800 vs canon eos 5d mark ii/iii will the nikon d800 be the camera to destroy the mighty canon 5d mark ii?
it can now focus down to a light level of -2ev and it still offers 11 af points even with lenses with a maximum aperture of f8.
if you don't place much faith in pseudo-intelligent multi-pattern metering systems, you won't mind that theeos 5d mark ii works from just 35 zones.
but the d800's 36 million pixels leave the canon for dead, and unless the rumours about the 5d mark iii's unchanged 21 megapixel resolution are wrong, canon's in trouble.
in the meantime, could the impressive specs on board the nikon d800  potentially be enough to kill off its biggest rival?
and we still don't know when it's going to get here...
of course, the5d mark ii is older, so you can expect some specs to be easily beatable, but there's plenty of rumours circulating about the5d mark iii (or 5d x as it may also be called)...
correction: the canon 1dx does not have a 100,000k-pixel metering sensor.
memory card slots the 5d mark ii takes a compact flash card.
even  so, the d800's brand new 91k-pixel metering sensor sounds impressive.
metering if you don't place much faith in pseudo-intelligent multi-pattern metering  systems, you won't mind that theeos 5d mark ii works from just 35 zones.
nikon d800 vs canon eos 5d mark ii early view: full-frame cameras battle it out cameras news february 8th | tell us what you think [ 2 comments ] tweet page 1:
it can  even detect human faces when you're using the viewfinder, not live view, and it  feeds into the d800's advanced scene recognition system to make metering even  more foolproof.
find the best ixus camera for your needs copyright 2006 - 2011 future publishing limited, 30 monmouth street, bath, ba1 2bw, united kingdom england and wales company registration number 2008885
on paper, there's not much in it since both shoot full hd video and a  procession of firmware updates has kept the 5d ahead of the game.
there's more to medium-format than pixels - the sensor size makes a major difference too.
but the d800  steams in with multiple frame sizes for different focal length and depth of  field effects, a 60p/50p 1280 x 720 slo-mo mode, clean, uncompressed hdmi  output and the thing videographers have been screaming for in a d-slr - an  audio jack for monitoring sound while filming.
updated 12 hours ago february 8th | tell us what you think [ 2 comments ] page 1: nikon d800 vs canon eos 5d mark ii/iii will the nikon d800 be the camera to destroy the mighty canon 5d mark ii?
the d800 has two card slots, one for cf (udma 7 compatible) and one for sd/sdhc/sdxc, and you can use them for extra capacity, backups, one for jpegs and one for raw and so on.
the d800 is £2,400 while the eos 5d mark ii can be found for around  £1,700, but that's because it's an older camera that's being discounted.
read our hands on: nikon d800 review resolution the eos 5d's 21 million pixel resolution was amazing when it was launched  and was still pretty good right up until, let's see, round about february 7th.
read our hands on: nikon d800 review the eos 5d's 21 million pixel resolution was amazing when it was launched and was still pretty good right up until, let's see, round about february 7th.
then check out best dslr: top cameras by price and brand sign up for techradar's free week in tech newsletter get the best tech stories of the week, plus the most popular news and reviews delivered straight to your inbox.
it can even detect human faces when you're using the viewfinder, not live view, and it feeds into the d800's advanced scene recognition system to make metering even more foolproof.
so how do they match up?
with nikon finally unleashing its d800 semi-pro full-frame dslr on the  market, canon users are left wondering when an upgrade to the much loved 5d  mark ii will be appearing.
the d800 is £2,400 while the eos 5d mark ii can be found for around £1,700, but that's because it's an older camera that's being discounted.
do not submit anything which may violate theterms of use or another person's rights including copyrighted or offensive materials.
but the d800 takes a step closer with a variant called the d800e where the anti-aliasing filter is removed.