i do wish the tightening wheels were a tad bit bigger for someone like me with larger fingers.
it’s actually a good learning experience.
note that the  flash is on the bridge as i move back.
a short 6″ (150mm), studio light  cable (not included) attaches the combi tf receiver to the studio light.
using multiple receivers, several portable flash units can be fired  simultaneously, along with triggering studio lights.
when using the remote flash control, the flash must be in manual mode because ttl signals are not transmitted.
most users will have to read their  manuals for the speedlights so that they get all the manual settings correct.
i tested out the hahnel combi tf remote control  & flash trigger for nikon dslrs and, for the most part, i like it.
the light is then triggered by the shutter release on the camera.
like me with larger fingers.
but when it did it was annoying.
by clicking our links first and then purchasing the items as we then get a  small portion of the sale to help run the website.
i keep worrying about the trigger button being pressed while  traveling.
nikon – the phoblographer (blog) - best camera for .me previous post: pentax introduces new 25mm f4 wide-angle lens for its 645  system donate to the phoblographer
i was a little cautious with them, not because  i thought they would break though.
interchangeable cables with interchangeable cables available for all major brands, the combi tf is the ideal remote control for a wide variety of dslr cameras.
the styling of the hahnel combi tf remote control & flash trigger is minimalist, but nice.
that can be a bit of a pain though if you’re dealing with multiple channels.
if you would like to purchase any of the items mentioned, please do so by clicking our links first and then purchasing the items as we then get a small portion of the sale to help run the website.
ease of use and settings setting up the hahnel combi tf remote control & flash trigger is really  quick and straight-forward.
it did not happen at a distance, mind you.
it did not happen often
i could get a good distance away from them and still trigger them.
pin itpin it related posts: tagged as: dslr, flash, lighting, nikon, photography, review pingback: review: hahnel combi tf remote control & flash trigger for nikon – the phoblographer (blog) - best camera for .me previous post: pentax introduces new 25mm f4 wide-angle lens
i was a little cautious with them, not because i thought they would break though.
they are not overwhelming and don’t take up too much room in the bag.
cons i did have a few issues with the combi tf remote control & flash  trigger.
please support the phoblographer we love to bring you guys the latest and greatest news and gear related  stuff.
copyright © 2008–2012 wordpress admin
i was worried about the button on the trigger being pushed while in the bag as there is no simple on/off switch for the remote.
i do wish the tightening wheels were a tad bit bigger for someone
if you can manage without a typical name brand like pocketwizard, you will find this interesting.
the phoblographer by gevon servo on march 26, 2012 one of the most important things i have learned when it comes to using a flash is getting it off the camera.
when i carry it in my tamrac evolution 8, i put it in the side pouch by itself.
my biggest issue was that occasionally the combi tf remote control would drop connection and i would have to reset it by pulling the battery out.
pin it pocketwizard plus iii: one trigger to rule them all review: vello freewave fusion wireless radio flash triggers for nikon
as the remote transmits on the reliable fsk 2.4 ghz radio frequency, a line  of sight is not a requirement for operation.
i am taking the chance to gain a better  understanding of the manual controls on my flash.
after a quick look at the well-written and easy to read instructions, it was only a matter of minutes before i was testing the triggers.
first of all, i wish there were a simple on/off switch on the combi tf remote control.
it is a question of value really.
the  connectors are all well placed as are the intuitive buttons.
it did not happen at a distance,  mind you.
the range test the combi tf remote control & flash trigger had a very good range.
it happened within a very short distance during my tests.
i did have a few issues with the combi tf remote control & flash trigger.
it would give them a little better control when attaching them to the camera and a light stand.
the remote triggering of flash units is also possible with the combi tf.
furthermore, radio waves can pass through and around obstacles such as walls and floors, triggering the camera around corners.
setting up the hahnel combi tf remote control & flash trigger is really quick and straight-forward.
they can be used for virtually any style of photography that requires an off camera flash.
when using the remote flash control, the flash must be in manual mode  because ttl signals are not transmitted.
the light is then triggered by the  shutter release on the camera.
it will be used a lot in my coffee photography as well as my macro photography.
additional receivers additional receivers (not included) enable you to trigger multiple flash units and studio lights simultaneously.
i am taking the chance to gain a better understanding of the manual controls on my flash.
build quality the triggers are built well.
however, we can’t keep doing that unless we have your continued support.
firing studio lights when you mount the transmitter on your camera hot shoe, you can fire your  studio lights by connecting the receiver via a hahnel studio light cable to  your particular strobe (not included).
the interchangeable cables, which are a great size, allow it to work with  the most of the nikon dslr range.
it will be used a lot in my coffee  photography as well as my macro photography.
i  could get a good distance away from them and still trigger them.
the combi tf remote control & flash trigger had a very good range.
as the remote transmits on the reliable fsk 2.4 ghz radio frequency, a line of sight is not a requirement for operation.
in the end while this trigger does not have the features of the ttl phottix odins, it  does work well.
while this trigger does not have the features of the ttl phottix odins, it does work well.
interchangeable cables with interchangeable cables available for all major brands, the combi tf is  the ideal remote control for a wide variety of dslr cameras.
battery life so far has been very good and it’s still clicking.
it fits with my styles of photography.
it would give them a little better control when  attaching them to the camera and a light stand.
when i  carry it in my tamrac evolution 8, i put it in the side pouch by itself.
firing studio lights when you mount the transmitter on your camera hot shoe, you can fire your studio lights by connecting the receiver via a hahnel studio light cable to your particular strobe (not included).
i took the triggers out with me to shoot spring flowers and some macro images.
as i move more into portraits it will be an invaluable tool.
they can be used for virtually any style  of photography that requires an off camera flash.
i tested out the hahnel combi tf remote control & flash trigger for nikon dslrs and, for the most part, i like it.
i  took the triggers out with me to shoot spring flowers and some macro images.
first of all, i wish there were a simple on/off switch on the combi tf  remote control.
most users will have to read their manuals for the speedlights so that they get all the manual settings correct.
the interchangeable cables, which are a great size, allow it to work with the most of the nikon dslr range.
i keep worrying about the trigger button being pressed while traveling.
a very important tool for this  is a wireless flash trigger.
the nikon sb-700 flash field review: pearstone wireless shutterboss timer remote (day 1) nikon announces new d7000, 35mm f/1.4 and 200mm f/2 tagged as: dslr, flash, lighting, nikon, photography, review pingback: review: hahnel combi tf remote control & flash trigger for
these triggers are for those wanting to move their flash photography to its next logical step.
(d5100, d700, d300,  d300s, d200, d90, d80 & d70s, d3, d3s, d3x, d2x, d2xs, d2h, d2hs, d1, d1x  & d1h)
as i move more into portraits it  will be an invaluable tool.
i also wish the triggers came with something to carry them in: like a small  plush case.
i was worried about the button on the  trigger being pushed while in the bag as there is no simple on/off switch for  the remote.
my  biggest issue was that occasionally the combi tf remote control would drop  connection and i would have to reset it by pulling the battery out.
for its 645 system enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
if you would like to purchase any of the items mentioned, please do so
i really like using it with my nikon 40mm f2.8 macro lens which works brilliantly with off camera lighting.
remote flash trigger
i thought the lack of ttl metering would be an  issue but it turns out it is not.
we love to bring you guys the latest and greatest news and gear related stuff.
additional receivers additional receivers (not included) enable you to trigger multiple flash  units and studio lights simultaneously.
after a quick look at the well-written and easy to  read instructions, it was only a matter of minutes before i was testing the  triggers.
nonetheless, it is an issue to keep in mind.
note that the flash is on the bridge as i move back.
i do like the hahnel combi tf remote control & flash trigger for nikon.
i thought the lack of ttl metering would be an issue but it turns out it is not.
there is a good reason for that: it allows for more control over where i place the light.
a short 6″ (150mm), studio light cable (not included) attaches the combi tf receiver to the studio light.
the switches area for these is in the battery compartment so you don’t have to worry about accidentally switching them.
the triggers are built well.
there is a good reason for that: it allows  for more control over where i place the light.
it is a  question of value really.
furthermore, radio waves can pass  through and around obstacles such as walls and floors, triggering the camera  around corners.
using multiple receivers, several portable flash units can be fired simultaneously, along with triggering studio lights.
i used a little pouch, that i already had, to carry them.
that can be a bit of a pain though if you’re dealing with  multiple channels.
switching the channels is easy.
remote control as a remote control, the combi tf allows wireless control of the camera’s shutter release, auto focus, continuous shooting, bulb mode, and 4-second timer delay trigger.
review: hahnel combi tf remote control & flash trigger for nikon by gevon servo on march 26, 2012 one of the most important things i have learned when it comes to using a  flash is getting it off the camera.
these triggers are for those wanting to move their flash  photography to its next logical step.
it’s an easy way to go through the battery faster.
if you can manage without a typical name brand like  pocketwizard, you will find this interesting.
gear used features remote control as a remote control, the combi tf allows wireless control of the  camera’s shutter release, auto focus, continuous shooting, bulb mode, and  4-second timer delay trigger.
it did not  happen often but when it did it was annoying.
these triggers have a great, pocketable size to them.
a very important tool for this is a wireless flash trigger.
radio frequency (rf) system
(d5100, d700, d300, d300s, d200, d90, d80 & d70s, d3, d3s, d3x, d2x, d2xs, d2h, d2hs, d1, d1x & d1h) switching the channels is easy.
i also wish the triggers came with something to carry them in: like a small plush case.
i really like using it with  my nikon 40mm f2.8 macro lens which works brilliantly with off camera lighting.
however, we can’t keep doing that unless we have your continued  support.
the styling of the hahnel combi tf remote control & flash trigger is  minimalist, but nice.
the switches area for these is in the  battery compartment so you don’t have to worry about accidentally  switching them.
the connectors are all well placed as are the intuitive buttons.