portrait photographers: as a snoot, they can be great hair lights.
however, i didn’t  really see any light loss at all in my usage.
pin it related posts: tagged as: bend, events, expoimaging, flash, flash benders, output, portraits, rogue pingback: advanced event shooting tips: nailing the shot efficiently at the phoblographer pingback: photojojo starts selling the rogue flash bender and diffusion panel
the flash benders are all able to fit into nearly any pocket of your camera bag.
let’s review what  we’ve done.
also, please follow us on facebook, flickr and twitter.
the flash output from your flash and the way that the rogue flash benders affect them are different for each configuration.
bendable, pliable, shapable, versatile: therogue flash benders let you really harness the light output from your flash and give the strobist some of the best control i’ve ever seen.
however, i didn’t really see any light loss at all in my usage.
if you would like to purchase any of the items mentioned, please do so by clicking our links first and then purchasing the items as we then get a small portion of the sale to help run the website.
consider these during the reception when everyone is on the dance floor.
as for the bounce card, well,  it did serve the purpose and was still the most versatile bounce card out  there.
but here is  how they can be used by you: event photographers: you can use them as bounce cards to provide more  indirect light onto people or a crowd.
have  the flash benders reflect light onto the subjects and ensure that the flash is  still pointed towards the ceiling.
you  won’t get the wrap-around quality of an umbrella, but you’ll get  something in between an umbrella and a softbox.
complete postings day 1- small overview of the flash benders as well as some results from  using them at an event.
typically with flash modifiers, i’m either switching to total manual control or flash exposure compensation when using them in e-ttl.
flash output the flash output from your flash and the way that the rogue flash benders  affect them are different for each configuration.
copyright © 2008–2012 wordpress admin
by far, my favorite is the large because of the softer light it gives off combined with its versatility and overall coverage it provides.
indeed, they’ve become my new go to item for nearly any occasion.
when they were released, they were the hype of the blogosphere.
3- used at an event during the canon t3i review.
photojournalists: see portrait and wedding photographers.
you can tell that someone really put thought into these when they designed them, yet they are so extremely simple in design.
ease of use the flash benders come in three sizes: large, small, and bounce card.
if you would like to purchase any of the items  mentioned, please do so by clicking our links first and then purchasing the  items as we then get a small portion of the sale to help run the website.
wedding photographers: the flash benders will allow you to aim your  flash’s output more efficiently, which is so critical at weddings.
rightfully  so, theflash benders are the only flash modifers that i cannot find fault with.
the flash benders are all able to fit into nearly any pocket of your camera  bag.
camcorder enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
however, once you use thelarge flash bender you will be spoiled.
2- shot an event at the b&h event space with them.
many photographers would say so, and to be quite honest i couldn’t find a single fault with them.
you’ll be able to provide better  balance that way if you balance the shutter speed, apertures and isos.
the larger unit it also  the easiest to use because it can easily be formed into different  configurations like a snoot, arch, wide angular spread, etc. the small card and bounce card aren’t as useful.
they  also can provide a lot of contrasty lighting when used correctly.
landscape photographers: forget it.
then can be folded, then folded again and sometimes even again.
but here is how they can be used by you: event photographers: you can use them as bounce cards to provide more indirect light onto people or a crowd.
let’s review what we’ve done.
however,  once you use thelarge flash bender you will be spoiled.
you can tell that someone really put thought into  these when they designed them, yet they are so extremely simple in design.
just pick the one that’s best for you.
tomorrow previous post: why you all need to calm down about phones killing cameras next post: with the flip dead, samsung announces w200
please support the phoblographer we love to bring you guys the latest and greatest news  and gear related stuff.
however, we can’t keep doing that unless we have your continued support.
pin it field review: canon t3i (day 5)
1- small overview of the flash benders as well as some results from using them at an event.
you won’t get the wrap-around quality of an umbrella, but you’ll get something in between an umbrella and a softbox.
i’d recommend  using the small card specifically for when you need wider coverage from your  flash or when you’re doing product photos.
also, please follow us on facebook, flickr and twitter.
by  far, my favorite is the large because of the softer light it gives off combined  with its versatility and overall coverage it provides.
however, we can’t keep doing that unless we have  your continued support.
i’d recommend using the small card specifically for when you need wider coverage from your flash or when you’re doing product photos.
camcorder donate to the phoblographer
the flash benders come in three sizes: large, small, and bounce card.
i never had to  do that once with these.
tomorrow previous post: why you all need to calm down about phones killing cameras next post: with the flip dead, samsung announces
product photographers: these are best used with your strobes being set off  wirelessly.
conclusions when they were released, they were the hype of the blogosphere.
i can really go on and on about the versatility of these items.
the phoblographer by chris gampat on april 20, 2011 so are the expoimaging rogue flash benders the best flash modifiers ever?
wedding photographers: the flash benders will allow you to aim your flash’s output more efficiently, which is so critical at weddings.
the complete rogue flash benders review by chris gampat on april 20, 2011 so are the expoimaging rogue flash benders the best flash modifiers ever?
don’t get me wrong, for what it does, it’s great.
when  you’re ready to use them, you can whip them out and get right to work  after bending them back into shape.
think of them as transformers.
when you’re ready to use them, you can whip them out and get right to work after bending them back into shape.
many photographers would say so, and to be quite honest i couldn’t find a  single fault with them.
additionally, the belt at the bottom of each is totally adjustable to fit  around various sized flashes.
they can provide very flash and even lighting as well as spotlights  as being snoots.
you’ll be able to provide better balance that way if you balance the shutter speed, apertures and isos.
rightfully so, theflash benders are the only flash modifers that i cannot find fault with.
we love to bring you guys the latest and greatest news and gear related stuff.
the larger unit it also the easiest to use because it can easily be formed into different configurations like a snoot, arch, wide angular spread, etc. the small card and bounce card aren’t as useful.
i never had to do that once with these.
they can provide very flash and even lighting as well as spotlights as being snoots.
bendable, pliable, shapable, versatile: therogue flash  benders let you really harness the light output from your flash and give the  strobist some of the best control i’ve ever seen.
typically with flash modifiers, i’m either switching to total manual  control or flash exposure compensation when using them in e-ttl.
have the flash benders reflect light onto the subjects and ensure that the flash is still pointed towards the ceiling.
they also can provide a lot of contrasty lighting when used correctly.
street photographers: if you use flash on your street photography, i would  actually ensure that these are always angled downward towards your subjects to  give them full frontal illumination in order to balance out their exposure with  the ambient lighting.
street photographers: if you use flash on your street photography, i would actually ensure that these are always angled downward towards your subjects to give them full frontal illumination in order to balance out their exposure with the ambient lighting.
tagged as: bend, events, expoimaging, flash, flash benders, output,  portraits, rogue pingback: advanced event shooting tips: nailing the shot efficiently at the  phoblographer pingback: photojojo starts selling the rogue flash bender and diffusion  panel
versatility i can really go on and on about the versatility of these items.
as for the bounce card, well, it did serve the purpose and was still the most versatile bounce card out there.
product photographers: these are best used with your strobes being set off wirelessly.
additionally, the belt at the bottom of each is totally adjustable to fit around various sized flashes.