well bill, do you have the power of your convictions or were you just leading us on?reply hi paul, i have written lots of nonsense in my time, this isn’t the first or the last time that i will.
nikon’s announcement of this camera is receiving lots of interest by  serious photographers.
you would love the image quality but the 3.9 mps may not be enough for wildlife shots.
but, it will cost one heck of a lot more than the 1ds mark iii  which is available today.
see:  http://www.bill.lockharts.com/index.php/tag/canon-1ds-ii
most consumer grade cameras won’t get close to that number.
so, i think perhaps i will buy the canon 1ds mark iii.
after all, i have spent probably as much as the camera is  worth just getting to where i am about to shoot.
i want something  that works when the light is there before me.
what i have now produces good images when i take the time to think about what i am doing.
when one travels and when one enters into the real world of nature photography, the affects of weather on equipment is paramount.
maybe even one that offers two shooting modes.
reply hard choice bill, shame the 5d is showing some strange black dots next to bright areas…canon yet to comment, here we go again?
only the best glass can be used with these cameras.
so, cost is not always a valid consideration.
i can buy a 1ds mark iii for about $1,500  less than the d3x.
well bill, do you have the power of your convictions or were you  just leading us on?
i want a camera that will withstand what i will put it  through.
the 5d mark ii offers the photographer a 21.1 megapixel camera with a full-frame sensor and something entirely new, hd movies!
if i did, a hassy would already be in my camera bag.
heavy is something i detest, but heavy means solid and heavy means better  photographs.
what is good is that we do have some amazing options today.
besides the cost will come down substantially in the next six months.
at this level, lens diffraction will be a major issue, especially for nature photography where one wants greater depth of field.
like the nikon, it is a professional grade camera.
problem is, the movies i have seen are terrible, with jerky motion.
and yes, a good camera will produce better images, even though the key ingredient is always the photographer and the photographer’s skills.
nikon d3x is a clear winner .
if you buy the d3x because you think it is superior to the mk iii, are you going to sell it when the mk iv comes out, then sell the mk iv when the d4x (or d3y) is available, ad nauseam?
in other words,  it’s better than its sibling, but not yet a professional grade camera.
by the way, i purchased the 5d mk ii and it is a great camera.
professional cameras generally are built to withstand about 250,000 shutter  releases, versus consumer cameras that might manage 100,000.
if interested, contact me at bill@lockharts.comthis entry was posted in equipment/reviews, thoughts along the way.
of course if you are a nature tog and fond of fast af….don’t buy the 5d mkii!
but, think a moment, i can buy two of the 5d mark iis for what i would pay  for either alternative!
canon has to make a pro replacement for the 1ds mark iii soon because the 5d mk ii has a better processor, same megapixels, etc.
at 24mp there is nothing out there, other than the sony alpha, that offers this much resolution.
best regards, billreply i wonder much the sensor score would affect nature photography?
course any new camera will have production issues.
so, other than price, which is substantial,  what do each offer that  fit within my requirements?
besides the cost will come down  substantially in the next six months.
or if i am in the shetland islands and snow and  sleet are hitting me with temperatures well below freezing, what camera do i  want in my bag?
thanks for the link!
which is superior is splitting hairs and, if you have one, the  question of buying the other should be answered by your accountant.
any flaw in a lens will show.
i want a camera that will withstand what i will put it through.
in other words, it is two cameras in one.
canon says it has improved the weather sealing.
and i am very happy with the 1ds mkiii’s resolution, just not happy with canon quality-control.
but one must think for a moment.
and i hope you write again soon!
the d3x does not offer sensor  cleaning.
with outstanding image quality, it is difficult to pass up, particularly if the price for it drops in the next six months, and likely it will when its replacement is announced.
he says that heavy is better.
a nice versitile  camera.
and yes, more megapixels produce  better resolution.
and frankly, i have  no desire to lug such equipment around.
the 5d mark ii offers the photographer a 21.1 megapixel camera with a  full-frame sensor and something entirely new, hd movies!
as these high-end cameras become more complex, and quality-control becomes more and more of an issue, professionals will need to demand more from nikon and canon, and stop tolerating poor workmanship and performance.
http://www.dxomark.com/index.php/eng/image-quality-database/compare-cameras/(appareil1)/192|0/(appareil2)/287|0/(appareil3)/279|0/(onglet)/0/(brand)/canon/(brand2)/nikon/(brand3)/canonreply phil, glad to hear that you like the canon 5d mark ii, given your background that is an impressive statement.
it has one great advantage over the nikon d3x, and that is sensor cleaning.
in other words, it’s better than its sibling, but not yet a professional grade camera.
at 21.1 megapixels it is a tad shy of the nikon d3x offering, but it has  been around for a good while and the images it produces are equal, in my  opinon, to the new nikon offering.
i just stumbled upon your blog and wanted to say that i  have really enjoyed browsing your blog posts.
when one travels and when one enters into the real  world of nature photography, the affects of weather on equipment is  paramount.
the scores of the d3x indicate it is the best of the lot.
why would i be concerned about weather sealing and durability?
second, just getting to the spot that one is about  to shoot in involves airplanes, safari vehicles, trekking across long  distances, dust, and sometimes moving by boat in both fresh and salt  water.
canon 5d mark ii –  first impressions (part three)→ choices: nikon d3x, canon 1ds iii, canon 5d ii posted on august 15,  2010 by bill
maybe even one  that offers two shooting modes.
he  says that heavy is better.
course, the major consideration for me is that i own lots of canon l  glass.
so, i am considering three cameras for a possible purchase within the next six months.
full frame and partial frame at higher speeds.
very high resolution and reduced resolution for images per second.
proven image results.
it produces fantastic images.
the only beneficiary of that merry-go-round are camera dealers and used camera buyers.
if i was you i would wait a bit and keep your ear to the ground.
because canon will respond to the nikon d3x challenge with a mega mega megapixel camera.
for those of us who do nature stuff, well, we have to hang our hats on what manufacturers offer to full-time photographers.
all full frame cameras with no multipliers.
i want a camera that will work when i need it to work.
bill makes a telling statement but doesn’t follow through on it.
it has a scratch on the selection wheel, but other than that it is in perfect condition.
so, maybe nikon isn’t too far off in the price.
the first is  weather sealing.
weather sealed and built like a small abrams tank.
the equipment must stand up to extreme temperatures, rain,  snow, sleet, and heat.
it  has a scratch on the selection wheel, but other than that it is in perfect  condition.
at first blush, the nikon d3x sounds like the answer, giving the photographer the option of shooting full-frame or a reduced sized shot at higher speeds.
but, i ask, is it a professional grade  camera?
if interested, contact me at bill@lockharts.com this entry was posted in equipment/reviews, thoughts along the way.
the nikon d3x, the canon 1ds mark iii, and the canon 5d mark ii.
i have it for sale at $3,500.
reply paul harris says: january 21, 2010 at 11:41 am what nonsense!
but, canon  does not rate it as a professional grade camera.
reply hi omar, when one reaches 21mp
so, i am considering three cameras for a possible purchase within the next  six months.
so that is an option well beyond my means.
as to the 5d mark ii, we are reading some bad experiences with new owners.
so, cost is not always a  valid consideration.
at 21.1 megapixels it is a tad shy of the nikon d3x offering, but it has been around for a good while and the images it produces are equal, in my opinon, to the new nikon offering.
and yes, a good  camera will produce better images, even though the key ingredient is always the  photographer and the photographer’s skills.
so, other than price, which is substantial, what do each offer that fit within my requirements?
course, i remember buying the 1ds for that four years ago, so perhaps it is not out of line.
all produce images above 21 mp.
but, think a moment, i can buy two of the 5d mark iis for what i would pay for either alternative!
it just isn’t built well enough.
some speculate that the whole 1d series will be combined into one camera that would offer something similar to the d3x.
i can buy one for about $2,700, which is substantially  less than the d3x and the 1ds iii.
but, in terms of image quality, in my opinion, it is as  good as the nikon.
but, heavy means the camera can take  better photos at lower shutter speeds.
i hate to even think about it, i yearn for a light-weight  camera that produces great images.
← ireland canon 5d mark ii –  first impressions (part three)→ 11 responses to choices: nikon d3x, canon 1ds iii, canon 5d ii prashant setya says: october 21, 2010 at 1:08 pm nikon d3x is an awesome camera .
i hate having to spend hours and hours getting rid of dust spots on my images.
the first is weather sealing.
that is interesting, it is in fact a major  consideration.
best regards, billreply bill, i think the camera you want hasn’t been sold yet.
in any case i’ll be subscribing to your feed and i hope you write again soon!reply what nonsense!
but, heavy means the camera can take better photos at lower shutter speeds.
one can only tell when we compare the detailed shots taken by nikon d3x and canon 5dm2.
best regards, billreply after sending my canon 20d back to canon 5 times; getting a brand new canon 1ds mkii with a bad sensor; and sending my canon 1ds mkiii back to canon for underexposing 2 full stops, i was ready to sell all my canon lenses and move back to nikon.
and is relatively cheap.
i hate to even think about it, i yearn for a light-weight camera that produces great images.
like the nikon, it is a professional grade  camera.
reply january 21, 2010 at 12:15 pm hi paul, i have written lots of nonsense in my time, this isn’t the first or  the last time that i will.
i can’t up the frames per second by choosing a  different format.
what a revolution that will offer the photographer if it does mature.
that is interesting, it is in fact a major consideration.
the second is build quality and durability.
best regards, billreply hi neil, it’s tough finding the right camera!
no it does not offer different shooting  modes.
and yes, more megapixels produce better resolution.
that is, if i replace what i have for the nikon choices.
if i am at punda maria in south africa and the temperature is hovering around 130 degrees f in the shade, what camera do i want there?
see: http://www.bill.lockharts.com/index.php/tag/canon-1ds-ii
but, one thing is for sure, i don’t envision that anytime soon i would have the funds to jump into the medium format arena.
that capability would simply change everything we do with a camera and offer up a new world of light.
it is always best to wait for a few months prior to purchase.
nikon d3x is a clear  winner .
but, my gosh, $8,000!
in any case i’ll be  subscribing to your feed
maybe not the all in one ideal.
for the serious photographer, there comes a time when consideration of a  new camera is on the mind.
so, a weather sealed camera with top notch construction is a major  consideration.
problem is, the movies i have seen are terrible, with jerky  motion.
if i am at punda maria in south  africa and the temperature is hovering around 130 degrees f in the shade, what  camera do i want there?
i hate having to spend hours and hours  getting rid of dust spots on my images.
it has one great advantage over the nikon  d3x, and that is sensor cleaning.
the real market for both the d3x and the 1ds mark iii, is not nature photographers, it is the professional photographer who does studio work, weddings, or the sports shooters and newspaper reporters who use the camera on a daily basis.
second, just getting to the spot that one is about to shoot in involves airplanes, safari vehicles, trekking across long distances, dust, and sometimes moving by boat in both fresh and salt water.
bookmark thepermalink.
the real  question to answer is, “what is the return on my investment?”.
the equipment must stand up to extreme temperatures, rain, snow, sleet, and heat.
yes, a canon xti will produce great images, i have some to prove it, but it won’t last very long with the kind of travel photography that i do.
why?  well, first, it tops the megapixel  race.
at 24mp there is nothing out there, other than the sony alpha, that  offers this much resolution.
wow, it may offer those of us who do both landscapes and wildlife  photography a great resource.
heck, one trip will buy any of these cameras, and i do about four  major trips per year.
i can buy a 1ds mark iii for about $1,500 less than the d3x.
i am a landscape photographer
what  you see is what you get.
both the mk iii and the d3x are good top of the line pro  cameras.
reply physician assistant says: august 23, 2010 at 6:36 pm
or if i am in the shetland islands and snow and sleet are hitting me with temperatures well below freezing, what camera do i want in my bag?
this is why i am considering the 1ds mark iii.
i am pleased with the 1ds mark ii, although the speed of the 1d mark iin and the 1.3 multiplier sure is great for wildlife.
not all bad, but some issues are there.
the only beneficiary of that merry-go-round are  camera dealers and used camera buyers.
wow, it may offer those of us who do both landscapes and wildlife photography a great resource.
but, i thought it might be good here to start a thread about such choices to see if others are considering the same cameras that i am.
full frame and partial frame at higher  speeds.
i want realibility.
for me, the considerations involve whether upgrading will improve the overall quality of what i do.
a nice versitile camera.
most  consumer grade cameras won’t get close to that number.
but, canon does not rate it as a professional grade camera.
and it can do neat stuff, like move into  another mode and capture shots at less megapixels but with astonishing  speed.
well, first, it tops the megapixel race.
but, it will cost one heck of a lot more than the 1ds mark iii which is available today.
my quandary is wanting one camera that will do both, one that will withstand the rough treatment of travel and usage.
replacing my canon lenses with nikon lenses will push the price tag close to $20,000!
waiting for another six months is certainly an option for me.
for example: the canon 300 mm f/4 l is, see:   http://www.bill.lockharts.com/index.php/tag/canon-300mm-f4l-is the canon 100-400mm f/4.5.-5.6l, see:   http://www.bill.lockharts.com/index.php/tag/canon-100-400mm-f45-56l and the fabulous 200mm f/2.8l, see:   http://www.bill.lockharts.com/index.php/tag/canon-200mm-f28l btw, i have a 1ds mark ii with about 12,000 shutter releases for sale.
what you see is what you get.
your email address will not be published.
two other factors are important to me.
and, i will have it professionally cleaned before shipment.
but, in terms of image quality, in my opinion, it is as good as the nikon.
and, perhaps you are right, canon will likely announce its replacement for the 1ds mark iii within the next three months.
particularly so if one travels as much as i do.
nikon d3x is an awesome camera .
yes, a canon  xti will produce great images, i have some to prove it, but it won’t last  very long with the kind of travel photography that i do.
but, the real consideration  here is the price.
required fields are marked * name * email * * copy this password: * type or paste password here: comment
so, a weather sealed camera with top notch construction is a major consideration.
heavy is something i detest, but heavy means solid and heavy means better photographs.
because canon will respond to  the nikon d3x challenge with a mega mega megapixel camera.
no it does not offer different shooting modes.
it just  isn’t built well enough.
for me, the considerations involve whether  upgrading will improve the overall quality of what i do.
its the best the pros can get.
the d3x does not offer sensor cleaning.
it  produces fantastic images.
and frankly, i have no desire to lug such equipment around.
if  you buy the d3x because you think it is superior to the mk iii, are you going  to sell it when the mk iv comes out, then sell the mk iv when the d4x (or d3y)  is available, ad nauseam?
five years ahead, we might very well be totally shocked at what is produced as technology gets better and better.
heck, one trip will buy any of these cameras, and i do about four major trips per year.
i just stumbled upon your blog and wanted to say that i have really enjoyed browsing your blog posts.
very high  resolution and reduced resolution for images per second.
five years ago we could not have foreseen what the technology would produce in such a short time.
even if the camera is what canon says it is, i am still concerned about whether it will withstand the rigors i know i will put it through.
for the serious photographer, there comes a time when consideration of a new camera is on the mind.
i want something that works when the light is there before me.
but, i ask, is it a professional grade camera?
if he really means it, he should dump all his canon equipment, not even consider nikon, and immediately run out and buy a couple of mamiya rz67 pro iid bodies, a bunch of lenses, 2 leaf backs, and a bunch of car batteries.
nikon’s announcement of this camera is receiving lots of interest by serious photographers.
it seems the d3x has its own set of problems that have been overlooked by reviewers that are afraid to honestly expose the flaws of this new camera.
but, i suspect that there are lots of photographers like myself out in the real world who are going through the same process that i am, that are looking at real choices that are available now.
i can’t up the frames per second by choosing a different format.
the question is, which offers me an opportunity for better quality given my style of shooting and the types of images i like to capture?
both the mk iii and the d3x are good top of the line pro cameras.
if he really means it, he should dump all his canon  equipment, not even consider nikon, and immediately run out and buy a couple of  mamiya rz67 pro iid bodies, a bunch of lenses, 2 leaf backs, and a bunch of car  batteries.
professional cameras generally are built to withstand about 250,000 shutter releases, versus consumer cameras that might manage 100,000.
after all, i have spent probably as much as the camera is worth just getting to where i am about to shoot.
so, let’s consider three cameras.
but, the real consideration here is the price.
and choices of lenses will be the bane of the photographer.
and it can do neat stuff, like move into another mode and capture shots at less megapixels but with astonishing speed.
one example is “black silicon” which is 100-500 times more sensitive to light that current silicon used in sensors.
for example: the canon 300 mm f/4 l is, see: http://www.bill.lockharts.com/index.php/tag/canon-300mm-f4l-is the canon 100-400mm f/4.5.-5.6l, see: http://www.bill.lockharts.com/index.php/tag/canon-100-400mm-f45-56l and the fabulous 200mm f/2.8l, see: http://www.bill.lockharts.com/index.php/tag/canon-200mm-f28l btw, i have a 1ds mark ii with about 12,000 shutter releases for sale.
the big issue for me is all the canon glass i own.
course, the major consideration for me is that i own lots of canon l glass.
the nikon d3x, the canon 1ds  mark iii, and the canon 5d mark ii.
the question is, which offers me an opportunity for better  quality given my style of shooting and the types of images i like to  capture?
based upon thom hogan’s (www.bythom.com) recent review of the nikon d3x, and many other reviews of the nikon, i have reconsidered this decision.
particularly so if one travels as much as i  do.
but, one thing is for sure, i don’t envision that anytime soon i  would have the funds to jump into the medium format arena.
which is superior is splitting hairs and, if you have one, the question of buying the other should be answered by your accountant.
1ds mkiii against the d3x….d3x is 12 months late (imo) and therefore still overpriced compared to the 1ds mkiii, but perhaps we should wait for real world examples?
the 1ds mark iii originally hit the market at around that amount as well.
one can only tell when we compare the  detailed shots taken by nikon d3x and canon 5dm2.
i want a camera that will work when i need it  to work.
i can buy one for about $2,700, which is substantially less than the d3x and the 1ds iii.
the real question to answer is, “what is the return on my investment?”.
i look at it this way.
perhaps iq will be so mind blowing we have to have one….or perhaps buy a couple of alpha a900′s and resize your images so iq becomes irrelevant?