the most recent canon eos announcement, the 1dx replaces both the 1ds mark iii and 1d mark iv cameras, and is due for release in march 2012.
the canon eos 1dx is suited for us by professional photographers working in the studio, out in the field or a mix of both.
in the us, the ixus range is known as the powershot digital elph series -  confirming that, in some cases, the camera's name won't always dictate its  ability.
read our canon eos 7d review price: £3,500 (body only), 16.1mp, hd video: 1080p
the canon eos 5d mk ii costs less than any other full-frame dslr on the market, including thesony a850 ornikon d700.
part sealed for protection against the elements, the 18mp eos 60d is a step closer to a sturdy professional camera outfit.
the canon eos dslr range encompasses three sensor sizes: aps-c, aps-h and  full-frame (35mm).
the 18.1mp full-frame sensor can churn out images at 12fps (14fps in high  speed mode) and offers other mind-bending features such as extended sensitivity  up to iso 204,800 and a 61-point autofocus system.
read our canon eos 1d mark iv unveiled story price: £1,520 (body only), 21.1mp, hd video: 1080p
sign up at http://www.techradar.com/register follow techradar cameras on twitter * find us on facebook * add us on  google+ best canon canons cameras
add a 10fps burst mode and 45-point autofocus system with  39 cross-type sensors and there's no doubting this is an exceptional camera for  shooting moving subjects.
in the dslr market it's the key player, and has outsold its nearest rivals for several years.
the canon eos 60d is best for enthusiasts seeking a more rugged camera than  the likes of the600d. although the canon website doesn't make as much of a song  and dance about the 60d's body as it ought to, this is among the key reasons to  buy this camera.
this means that on an aps-c format canon camera a 100mm lens produces images similar to a 160mm on a full-frame camera, whereas 100mm on a nikon/sony/pentax dslr offers a 150mm equivalent.
20th jan 2012 | 16:13
when the canon eos 7d was launched, it was touted as a camera "designed by photographers for photographers".
but also, due to their design difference, mounting an ef-s lens on a larger-sensor canon dslr would result in damage, due to a clash between the camera's mirror and the rear lens element.
sign up at http://www.techradar.com/register follow techradar cameras on twitter * find us on facebook * add us on google+best canon canons cameras 2012 dslrs compact cameras digital cameras cscs compact system cameras
a focusing system with 19 cross-type focus points mean the camera zips onto subjects in portrait or landscape orientation, and the 8fps continuous shooting mode is far quicker than the 60d's 5.3fps burst.
so if you've always wanted to experience shooting with a full-frame camera  then there's no better introduction than this superb camera.
(note: it takes ef lenses only, it's not ef-s compatible).
however, its size differs from the sony-made sensors found in nikon and pentax cameras.
best canon dslrs explained
add a 10fps burst mode and 45-point autofocus system with 39 cross-type sensors and there's no doubting this is an exceptional camera for shooting moving subjects.
in the us, the ixus range is known as the powershot digital elph series - confirming that, in some cases, the camera's name won't always dictate its ability.
not only is this  display a higher resolution than you'll find on any competitor dslr camera, but  the ability to manoeuvre it into any given angle is a great feature to have.
ef-s lenses are designed for  the smaller-sensor aps-c format canon dslrs.
but also, due to their design difference, mounting an ef-s lens on a  larger-sensor canon dslr would result in damage, due to a clash between the  camera's mirror and the rear lens element.
to find out which ixus or powershot is best for you, read our best canon ixus and best canon powershot articles.
its launch came prior  to the 60d's announcement and, at the time, looked to be a potential  replacement for the longer-running 60d series.
(note: it takes ef lenses only, it's not ef-s  compatible).
2012 dslrs compact cameras digital  cameras cscs compact system cameras camerasbuyingguide
although the60d and 7d have a  very similar 18mp aps-c sensor as in the 600d, the 7d's higher price and  additional features such as full environmental sealing make it canon's highest  specified eos dslr with an aps-c sensor.
camerasbuyingguide © 2012
(note, it takes ef  lenses only, not ef-s).
it's canon's most affordable eos dslr by quite  a margin, which makes it best for those on a budget who are looking to step  into first-time dslr use.
the canon eos 1dx is suited  for us by professional photographers working in the studio, out in the field or  a mix of both.
canon also makes a full-frame dslr series that's a great option for professionals or serious amateurs.
this means an image circle only large enough to cover aps-c sensors is produced.
the 'middle ground' of canon's consumer range, the eos 600d (or t3i as it's  known in the us) has a very similar 18mp sensor to the found in the higher-spec 60d and 7d models, which makes the 600d great value for money.
read our canon eos 1100d review price: £550 (body only), 18mp, hd video: 1080p
part sealed for protection against the elements, the 18mp eos 60d is a step  closer to a sturdy professional camera outfit.
ef lenses are the pricier, often pro-spec lenses designed to produce an image circle large enough to cover a full-frame sensor or 35mm film.
however, it comes in two flavours: the original ef and the more recent ef-s version.
the canon eos 7d is best for  demanding amateurs, but is easily good enough to be used professionally.
the  introductory £5,300 body-only price is far from cheap, but from what  we've seen this is one special camera.
the 18.1mp full-frame sensor can churn out images at 12fps (14fps in high speed mode) and offers other mind-bending features such as extended sensitivity up to iso 204,800 and a 61-point autofocus system.
read our canon eos 600d review canon eos 60d price: £800 (body only), 18mp, hd video: 1080p
a 12 megapixel aps-c sensor delivers decent images, whether using the full array of manual controls or the point-and-shoot creative auto mode.
loyal customers help contribute to this success, yet  canon's world-class range of up-to-date products ensures there's always  something worth coming back for.
so which canon camera is best for you?
best for enthusiasts, families and creatives, one of the 600d's standout features is its 3-inch, 1040k-dot, vari-angle lcd screen.
read our canon eos 60d review price: £1,100 (body only), 18mp, hd video: 1080p
however, it's not as clear-cut as that: some of the low-end powershot  models are less significant than some ixus models, plus a number of the latest  high-end ixus models offer manual controls and settings that blur the  boundaries between the two ranges.
although the company hasn't - at least as yet - announced a compact system camera (csc), there are plenty of rumours that one will surface some time during 2012.
read our canon eos 600d review price: £800 (body only), 18mp, hd video: 1080p the canon eos 60d is best for enthusiasts seeking a more rugged camera than the likes of the600d. although the canon website doesn't make as much of a song and dance about the 60d's body as it ought to, this is among the key reasons to buy this camera.
future publishing limited,30 monmouth street, bath, uk ba1 2bw reg no. 2008885
the latter is best for more demanding users demanding higher-end features and in some case manual control.
a 12 megapixel aps-c sensor delivers decent images, whether using the full  array of manual controls or the point-and-shoot creative auto mode.
the sheer level of customisation available is phenomenal - it's great for professional photographers who know exactly how they want to set up their focusing system's responsiveness.
read our canon eos 1d mark iv unveiled story best canon dslr - full-frame sensor canon eos 5d mark ii price: £1,520 (body only), 21.1mp, hd video: 1080p
although the60d and 7d have a very similar 18mp aps-c sensor as in the 600d, the 7d's higher price and additional features such as full environmental sealing make it canon's highest specified eos dslr with an aps-c sensor.
the sheer level of customisation available is phenomenal - it's great for  professional photographers who know exactly how they want to set up their  focusing system's responsiveness.
read our canon eos 7d review best canon dslr - aps-h sensor canon eos 1d mark iv price: £3,500 (body only), 16.1mp, hd video: 1080p
the 'middle ground' of canon's consumer range, the eos 600d (or t3i as it's known in the us) has a very similar 18mp sensor to the found in the higher-spec 60d and 7d models, which makes the 600d great value for money.
we give you the lowdown on the canon range of dslrs and compact cameras.
the canon-produced aps-c format sensor can be found in the company's range  of consumer cameras.
however, it comes in  two flavours: the original ef and the more recent ef-s version.
a focusing system with 19 cross-type focus points mean the camera zips onto  subjects in portrait or landscape orientation, and the 8fps continuous shooting  mode is far quicker than the 60d's 5.3fps burst.
as such, these (ever so slightly) smaller-sensor canon dslr cameras have a 1.6xcrop factor.
the introductory £5,300 body-only price is far from cheap, but from what we've seen this is one special camera.
this isn't applicable the other way  around, so new photographers using a post-2003 canon eos dslr with an aps-c  sensor size needn't worry about compatibility.
this isn't applicable the other way around, so new photographers using a post-2003 canon eos dslr with an aps-c sensor size needn't worry about compatibility.
there's rumour that the canon eos 5d mk ii will be replaced in the not so  distant future, since its 2008 launch makes it older than any other current eos  model.
the 1.3x crop (ie a 100mm lens provides a 130mm equivalent) is roughly halfway between aps-c and full-frame sizes - it's this balance between final image quality and a smaller overall kit that makes it ideal for many on-the-go pros.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- liked this?
ef-s lenses are designed for the smaller-sensor aps-c format canon dslrs.
read our hands-on canon eos 1dx review best canon compact cameras when it comes to compact cameras, there's a canon model to suit all tastes.
1100d review canon eos 600d price: £550 (body only), 18mp, hd video: 1080p
although the company hasn't - at least as yet - announced a compact system  camera (csc), there are plenty of rumours that one will surface some time  during 2012.
the canon-produced aps-c format sensor can be found in the company's range of consumer cameras.
the full range of canon's best dslr and compact cameras canon's name is synonymous with a plethora of the best cameras on the market.
the canon eos 5d mk ii  costs less than any other full-frame dslr on the market, including thesony a850  ornikon d700.
read our canon eos 5d mark ii review price: £5,300 (body only), 18.1mp, hd video: 1080p
ef-s lenses are designed to fit with a shorter distance between the lens's  rear element and the compatible host camera's sensor than their ef equivalents.
in terms of lenses, all canon dslrs use the ef-mount.
divided into the ixus and powershot ranges, the former is best for  point-and-shoot use, while (generally speaking)
the most recent canon eos announcement, the 1dx replaces both the 1ds mark  iii and 1d mark iv cameras, and is due for release in march 2012.
the canon eos 7d is best for demanding amateurs, but is easily good enough to be used professionally.
read our canon eos 5d mark ii review canon eos 1dx price: £5,300 (body only), 18.1mp, hd video: 1080p
the full range of canon's best dslr and compact cameras best canon dslr cameras canon's name is synonymous with a plethora of the best cameras on the  market.
divided into the ixus and powershot ranges, the former is best for point-and-shoot use, while (generally speaking)
the canon eos dslr range encompasses three sensor sizes: aps-c, aps-h and full-frame (35mm).
not only is this display a higher resolution than you'll find on any competitor dslr camera, but the ability to manoeuvre it into any given angle is a great feature to have.
the 36 x 24mm sensor size - the same size as traditional 35mm film - is ideal for producing the utmost in image quality, and offers greater depth of field control than small sensors.
then check out best dslr: top cameras by price and brand sign up for techradar's free week in tech newsletter get the best tech stories of the week, plus the most popular news and  reviews delivered straight to your inbox.
it's canon's most affordable eos dslr by quite a margin, which makes it best for those on a budget who are looking to step into first-time dslr use.
you might like: best compact camera 2012: 25 reviewed best canon ixus cameras by price and spec top view classic  version
however, it's not as clear-cut as that: some of the low-end powershot models are less significant than some ixus models, plus a number of the latest high-end ixus models offer manual controls and settings that blur the boundaries between the two ranges.
ef-s lenses are designed to fit with a shorter distance between the lens's rear element and the compatible host camera's sensor than their ef equivalents.
ef lenses are  the pricier, often pro-spec lenses designed to produce an image circle large  enough to cover a full-frame sensor or 35mm film.
the 1.3x crop (ie a 100mm lens  provides a 130mm equivalent) is roughly halfway between aps-c and full-frame  sizes - it's this balance between final image quality and a smaller overall kit  that makes it ideal for many on-the-go pros.
read our canon eos 60d review canon eos 7d price: £1,100 (body only), 18mp, hd video: 1080p when the canon eos 7d was launched, it was touted as a camera  "designed by photographers for photographers".
a great choice for professional sports and wildlife photographers, the canon eos 1d mark iv's 1.3x crop factor gives ef lenses (ef-s lenses aren't compatible) that extra reach compared to the full-frame eos models found further up the range.
canon also makes a full-frame dslr series that's a great option for  professionals or serious amateurs.
there's rumour that the canon eos 5d mk ii will be replaced in the not so distant future, since its 2008 launch makes it older than any other current eos model.
its launch came prior to the 60d's announcement and, at the time, looked to be a potential replacement for the longer-running 60d series.
a great choice for professional sports and wildlife photographers, the  canon eos 1d mark iv's 1.3x crop factor gives ef lenses (ef-s lenses aren't  compatible) that extra reach compared to the full-frame eos models found  further up the range.
search the entire site for... best canon cameras 2012
loyal customers help contribute to this success, yet canon's world-class range of up-to-date products ensures there's always something worth coming back for.
however, this has one big plus point - price!
in the dslr market it's the key player, and has outsold its nearest  rivals for several years.
read our hands-on canon eos 1dx review when it comes to compact cameras, there's a canon model to suit all tastes.
(note, it takes ef lenses only, not ef-s).
720p canon's entry-level eos 1100d, known as the rebel t3 in the us, is designed with new photographers in mind.
best for enthusiasts, families and creatives, one of the 600d's standout  features is its 3-inch, 1040k-dot, vari-angle lcd screen.
then check out best dslr: top cameras by price and brand sign up for techradar's free week in tech newsletter get the best tech stories of the week, plus the most popular news and reviews delivered straight to your inbox.
the aps-h sensor is a canon-only venture.
however, its size differs from the sony-made sensors found  in nikon and pentax cameras.
so if you've always wanted to experience shooting with a full-frame camera then there's no better introduction than this superb camera.
as such, these (ever so slightly) smaller-sensor  canon dslr cameras have a 1.6xcrop factor.
this means that on an aps-c format canon camera a 100mm lens produces  images similar to a 160mm on a full-frame camera, whereas 100mm on a  nikon/sony/pentax dslr offers a 150mm equivalent.
we give you the lowdown on the canon  range of dslrs and compact cameras.
the 36 x 24mm sensor size - the same size as  traditional 35mm film - is ideal for producing the utmost in image quality, and  offers greater depth of field control than small sensors.
the latter is best for more  demanding users demanding higher-end features and in some case manual control.
to find out which ixus or powershot is best for you, read our best canon  ixus and best canon powershot articles.
best canon dslr - aps-c and aps-h sensors best canon dslr - aps-c sensor canon eos 1100d price: £310 (body only), 12mp, hd video: 720p canon's entry-level eos 1100d, known as the rebel t3 in the us, is designed  with new photographers in mind.
price: £310 (body only), 12mp, hd video: