i missed a few shots that i would  have love to have nailed but the lack of af really restricted me from getting  the shot.
i mean it produces a perspective that is close to what the human eye sees.
think tank photo retrospective 5 carl zeiss distagon t* 35mm f/1.4 ze
has a few weaknesses and one of them is dealing with back-lit subjects.
i’ve  said this before
olympus ep-3 vs olympus ep-2 next post: field review: carl zeiss distagon t* 35mm f/1.4 ze (day 4 – at a birthday party)
i strongly suggest you pickup  some sort of padded sling strap if you are going to carry a lens of this weight.
also, please follow us on facebook, flickr and twitter.
it’s a very natural focal length  and by that i mean it produces a perspective that is close to what the human  eye sees.
canon 5d with zeiss 35mm f/4.0 - shot at iso 400, f/5.0, 1/125 sec i honestly thought this issue would come up before day 3 of the review, but it really reared its ugly head when i was out shooting in town.
and i’ll say it again, this lens produces images that have an unexplainable uniqueness to them; subjects seem to really pop from the background areas.
i’ve said this before
also, i enjoy having to slow down and put thought into what i’m shooting.
i strongly suggest you pickup some sort of padded sling strap if you are going to carry a lens of this weight.
they allow you to zone focus or you can even preset your focus if you can guesstimate your distance from your subject before you bring the camera up to your face.
i’ve become so accustomed to af that i couldn’t react quickly enough in order to get the shot.
beyond the build quality and great looks, this lens produces excellent results.
the 35mm focal length really is a must-have for anyone interested  in shooting street/urban photography.
while thecanon 5d does have a nice big and bright viewfinder, i cannot always tell when i have my subject 100% in focus.
i feel that this is important when reproducing photographs that depict everyday life.
canon 5d with zeiss 35mm f/4.0 - shot at iso 100, f/5.6, 1/500 sec instead of using my camdapter hand strap, i decided to go back to my beloved black rapid rs-7.
canon 5d with zeiss 35mm f/4.0 - shot at iso 100, f/5.6, 1/800 sec now that i’ve had this lens for a few days, i’ve been able to feel out this lens’ strengths and weaknesses.
i’ve become so accustomed to af that i  couldn’t react quickly enough in order to get the shot.
maybe if i had more time to practice with the lens i would have  nailed the shots, maybe not.
with a focal length of 35mm, thecarl zeiss distagon t* 35mm f/1.4 ze should feel right at home on the streets.
i know, i know, af isn’t  everything
however, we can’t keep doing that unless we have your continued support.
as i stated in the last post, without focus confirmation or a different focusing screen, i wouldn’t be able to use this lens.
i missed a few shots that i would have love to have nailed but the lack of af really restricted me from getting the shot.
if you shoot with a crop body, i would consider checking out thezeiss 35mm f/1.4 for your 50mm equivalent lens.
and there was a time when af wasn’t an option but there are  times when afreally comes in handy.
carrying this lens and a camera in your hand for an  extended period of time can get old very quickly.
as i said in my last post, at over 3lbs., this lens has a bit  of a weight problem.
canon 5d with zeiss 35mm f/1.4 - shot at iso 100, f/3.2, 1/2000 sec the carl zeiss distagon t* 35mm f/1.4 ze feels great mated to my 5d. a 35mm lens on a full frame body is great for environmental portraits and street photography.
this will drastically reduce your focus time once you have the  camera up to your eye.
it’s a very natural focal length and by that
canon 5d with zeiss 35mm f/1.4 - shot at iso 100, f/2.8, 1/1600 sec
pin it related posts: tagged as: 35mm, canon 5d, carl zeiss distagon t* 35mm f/1.4 ze, city, manual focus, street photograhy, town, zeiss previous post: which one:
the issue  i’m talking about is the lack of af.
when paired with a crop body, thezeiss 35mm f/1.4 will  end up being closer to a 50mm lens which is what i personally prefer to shoot  with.
be sure to check back for day 4 of the review when we take the carl zeiss distagon t* 35mm f/1.4 ze to a birthday part.
copyright © 2008–2012 wordpress admin
as i said in the last post, chromatic aberration is apparent at the lenses  widest apertures
don’t get me all wrong, the zeiss 35mm is not all bad.
as i said in my last post, at over 3lbs., this lens has a bit of a weight problem.
tagged as: 35mm, canon 5d, carl zeiss distagon t* 35mm f/1.4 ze, city,  manual focus, street photograhy, town, zeiss previous post: which one:
i personally think the zeiss 35mm‘s biggest weakness when compared to  the competition is the lack of af, but i’ll get into that in the next  section.
honestly, i don’t think it should be.
please support the phoblographer we love to bring you guys the latest and greatest news  and gear related stuff.
enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
canon 5d with zeiss 35mm f/1.4 - shot at iso 400, f/7.1, 1/200 sec -
i have rediscovered that the markings on the lens can be your best friend.
i know this is a very expensive lens and many  people will expect perfection fromzeiss (and i can’t say that i blame  them)
the good part is it only has a few weaknesses and one of them is dealing with back-lit subjects.
but it is not as bad as some of the other lenses i’ve  tested (e.g. sigma 85mm f/1.4).
so the lens has a hint of ca, i personally don’t have a problem with this because the lens excels in other areas that make ca a non-issue for me.
maybe if i had more time to practice with the lens i would have nailed the shots, maybe not.
if you shoot with a crop body, i would consider checking out thezeiss  35mm f/1.4 for your 50mm equivalent lens.
image quality canon 5d with zeiss 35mm f/4.0 - shot at iso 100, f/5.6, 1/800 sec now that i’ve had this lens for a few days, i’ve been able to  feel out this lens’ strengths and weaknesses.
i feel that this is important when reproducing photographs that  depict everyday life.
i have rediscovered that the markings on the lens can be your  best friend.
the 35mm focal length really is a must-have for anyone interested in shooting street/urban photography.
like most lenses, when you have a large amount of light pouring directly into the lens, your images are going to come out with less than ideal contrast and they will look washed out.
handling canon 5d with zeiss 35mm f/1.4 - shot at iso 400, f/7.1, 1/200 sec - no  signs of flare after using the carl zeiss distagon t* 35mm f/1.4 ze for a few days,  i’ve started to get used to having to manually focus all of the time.
it may not be the ideal lens in all situations, but what lens is?
it may not be the  ideal lens in all situations, but what lens is?
and there was a time when af wasn’t an option but there are times when afreally comes in handy.
as i said in the last post, chromatic aberration is apparent at the lenses widest apertures but it is not as bad as some of the other lenses i’ve tested (e.g. sigma 85mm f/1.4).
i know this is a very expensive lens and many people will expect perfection fromzeiss (and i can’t say that i blame them)
i know, i know, af isn’t everything
the 35mm focal length canon 5d with zeiss 35mm f/1.4 - shot at iso 100, f/3.2, 1/2000 sec the carl zeiss distagon t* 35mm f/1.4 ze feels great mated to my 5d. a 35mm  lens on a full frame body is great for environmental portraits and street  photography.
i think if you can live with  occasionally missing a shot or if you want to dedicate time to perfecting your  manual focusing technique, then you will be more than happy with thezeiss 35mm  f/1.4.
pin it related posts: field review: carl zeiss distagon t* 35mm f/1.4 ze
the issue i’m talking about is the lack of af.
so the lens has a hint of ca, i personally don’t have a  problem with this because the lens excels in other areas that make ca a  non-issue for me.
(day 2 – getting  to know the lens) field review: carl zeiss distagon t* 35mm f/1.4 ze (day 1 – initial  thoughts)
no signs of flare after using the carl zeiss distagon t* 35mm f/1.4 ze for a few days, i’ve started to get used to having to manually focus all of the time.
i personally think the zeiss 35mm‘s biggest weakness when compared to the competition is the lack of af, but i’ll get into that in the next section.
and i’ll say it again, this lens produces images that  have an unexplainable uniqueness to them; subjects seem to really pop from the  background areas.
they allow you to zone focus or you can even preset your focus if  you can guesstimate your distance from your subject before you bring the camera  up to your face.
also, i enjoy having to slow down and put thought into what  i’m shooting.
carrying this lens and a camera in your hand for an extended period of time can get old very quickly.
but i try not to worry about things that can easily be fixed in post processing.
the phoblographer by mike pouliot on july 6, 2011 canon 5d with zeiss 35mm f/4.0 - shot at iso 400, f/5.0, 1/1000 sec i love shooting with primes and i love street/urban photography, so i was excited to get out and shoot with thecarl zeiss distagon t* 35mm f/1.4 ze.
so should the lack of af be a mark against the lens?
if you would like to purchase any of the items  mentioned, please do so by clicking our links first and then purchasing the  items as we then get a small portion of the sale to help run the website.
if you would like to purchase any of the items mentioned, please do so by clicking our links first and then purchasing the items as we then get a small portion of the sale to help run the website.
also, please follow us on facebook, flickr and twitter.
however, we can’t keep doing that unless we have  your continued support.
beyond the  build quality and great looks, this lens produces excellent results.
olympus ep-3 vs olympus ep-2 next post: field review: carl zeiss distagon t* 35mm f/1.4 ze (day 4  – at a birthday party) donate to the phoblographer
honestly, i  don’t think it should be.
we love to bring you guys the latest and greatest news and gear related stuff.
when paired with a crop body, thezeiss 35mm f/1.4 will end up being closer to a 50mm lens which is what i personally prefer to shoot with.
as  i stated in the last post, without focus confirmation or a different focusing  screen, i wouldn’t be able to use this lens.
the good part is it only
but i try not to worry about things that can easily be fixed in post  processing.
concerns canon 5d with zeiss 35mm f/4.0 - shot at iso 400, f/5.0, 1/125 sec i honestly thought this issue would come up before day 3 of the review, but  it really reared its ugly head when i was out shooting in town.
be sure to check back for day 4 of the review when we take the carl zeiss  distagon t* 35mm f/1.4 ze to a birthday part.
i think if you can live with occasionally missing a shot or if you want to dedicate time to perfecting your manual focusing technique, then you will be more than happy with thezeiss 35mm f/1.4.
this will drastically reduce your focus time once you have the camera up to your eye.
while thecanon 5d does have  a nice big and bright viewfinder, i cannot always tell when i have my subject  100% in focus.
like  most lenses, when you have a large amount of light pouring directly into the  lens, your images are going to come out with less than ideal contrast and they  will look washed out.
this lens is what it is.