this covers  everything from a 6mm fisheye to the behemoth 2000mm reflex-nikkor.
lets start with some history.
now, to the official lists.
however, all will mount (with the noted exceptions), so as long as you're prepared to do a bit of manual work, you'll be able to use any lens in that list (with a d200 onwards, you'll always be able to meter, focus might be manual if the lens is a manual focus one).
what canon lens would match the nikon 43-86mm  f3.5?
[phpbb debug] php notice: in file /includes/functions.php on line 4463:
0.098s | 11 queries | gzip : on
fri, 27 2009 feb 17:49:09 you've often seen the debates of canon vs nikon; arguments and conjecture are  often thrown around masqueraded as "fact".
being fair, all of canon's listed lenses are af,  where as the giants such as the nikon 1200-1700 is not (though try find an af  motor to move that optical assembly!).
this mount was developed in 1959 and has been used by nikon since, with small adaptations to add new features (such as in-lens motors, vr, cpu chips, etc).
another interesting fact is that nikon made dx lenses - a smaller image circle for their asp-c cameras.
the list goes from 14mm to 1200mm.
thus, with some exceptions, you can mount any f-mount lens on your current dslr bodies (the exceptions being invasive fish-eyes; it's just wise not to touch these).
delete all board cookies •
both offer a good selection of zoom and prime lenses, but if you're looking for something more special (fast primes?
quick examples are: nikon has five fisheye lenses, canon only has 1 nikon have 8 macro lenses and 2 tilt/shift macro lenses, canon only has 5  macro lenses, none of which are tilt/shift.
all times are utc powered by phpbb © 2000, 2002, 2005, 2007 phpbb group time :
in conclusion we can see that the lens argument isn't as clear cut as people make it out to be.
view topic - canon vs nikon neothermic.com the neothermic.com forums skip to content advanced search - board index ‹ general ‹ frontpage news - change font size canon vs nikon news artcles from the front page.
that's a small example of how you can't  call one for the other.
if you  want af inall lenses you can buy, canon wins hands down.
nikon.) then have a look at the lists  provided and select based upon that; don't listen to fanbois propping up their  brand because they happen to have a camera and a few lenses.
general announcements frontpage news modifications 2.0 modifications mathml
if you want ultra wide lenses, nikon does appear to have the edge (there's 5 prime lenses between 20 and 13mm for nikon and 1 fish eye, and two fisheye lenses that are below 10mm).
nikon.) then have a look at the lists provided and select based upon that; don't listen to fanbois propping up their brand because they happen to have a camera and a few lenses.
that's a small example of how you can't call one for the other.
so if you have no slr glass and are looking at canon vs nikon, think about what you'll be shooting.
undefined index: feed_overall [phpbb debug] php notice: in file /includes/functions.php on line 4465: undefined index: feed_topics_new [phpbb debug] php notice: in file/includes/functions.php on line 4466:
canon, meanwhile,  have the ef lens mount designed in 1987.
canon's ef/ef-s specification list, meanwhile, lists 61 lenses of which 4 of  them are ef-s and thus will not mount or work with canon's full frame cameras.
thus you  can't mount an fd lens on an ef camera without using adaptors, and since canon  re-designed the flange to focal plane length as well, the adaptors will need  optical elements.
comment on them here.
however, all will mount (with the  noted exceptions), so as long as you're prepared to do a bit of manual work,  you'll be able to use any lens in that list (with a d200 onwards, you'll always  be able to meter, focus might be manual if the lens is a manual focus one).
in conclusion we can see that the lens argument  isn't as clear cut as people make it out to be.
thus it's not overly economical to mount an fd lens on an ef  camera.
for example, trying to find a matching nikon lens for the canon 28-90mm lens is impossible; nikon do have 28-85mm
lets start with some  history.
• page 1 of 1 canon vs nikon by neothermic »
fri, 27 2009 feb 17:49:09 you've often seen the debates of canon vs nikon; arguments and conjecture are often thrown around masqueraded as "fact".
i will say this, though, for every lens canon  has in their ef list, there is a nikon that is comparable, with a few minor  exceptions (nikon do not have an 85mm f1.2 for example).
nikon's lens compatibility matrix lists all the f-mount lenses and how compatible they are with the current crop of nikon dslrs.
quite simply this means that nikon have a larger selection of lenses in the general case.
the big problem is for every lens canon has that you can find a matching nikon for (in both aperture and focal length), there'll be some canon lenses that are of slightly different focal lengths.
- nikon have a selection of zoom lenses that go past 400mm (200-600mm, 360-1200mm, 1200-1700mm), the longest canon zoom is 100-400mm - nikon have medical, defocus control, reflex, uv and noct lenses, canon does not.
if you want more  long-range zooms, nikon wins here.
with their latest full-frame range (d700, d3, d3x), it's possible to mount the dx lenses in crop mode, meaning that your dx glass will still work (d3/d700 will drop to 5.1mp with dx lenses, d3x will drop to 10mp).
quite simply this means that nikon have a larger selection of lenses in the  general case.
so  if you have no slr glass and are looking at canon vs nikon, think about what  you'll be shooting.
trying to do a more direct comparison, though, didn't quite go as planned.
if you're  reading this and want to argue that you can contrast, go for it.
canon also do have some more consumer friendly zoom lenses (70-200mm f4 is comes to mind), but if you look for them, nikon have many f4 lenses for their zoom focal lengths (and even f3.5 and f3.3 and other obscure fixed-aperture zooms)
they are still f-mount lenses and thus will always mount.
tit-for-tat really at this point.
this mount was developed in 1959  and has been used by nikon since, with small adaptations to add new features  (such as in-lens motors, vr, cpu chips, etc).
what canon lens would match the nikon 43-86mm f3.5?
canon also made a few ef-s lenses, but these were physically different enough from ef lenses to mean that you can't mount them on canon's full-frame range, not even in a cropped mode.
nikon have a selection of zoom lenses that go past 400mm (200-600mm,  360-1200mm, 1200-1700mm), the longest canon zoom is 100-400mm nikon have medical, defocus control, reflex, uv and noct lenses, canon  does not.
with their latest full-frame range (d700, d3, d3x), it's possible to  mount the dx lenses in crop mode, meaning that your dx glass will still work  (d3/d700 will drop to 5.1mp with dx lenses, d3x will drop to 10mp).
the major rule is the d40/d40x/d60  will not af with older lenses, and anything less than a d200 will not meter  with really old lenses (ai/pre-ai) either.
this is a radical change from their fd  mount to incorporate electronics such as af and vr in the lens from the outset  rather than trying to manipulate the fd mount into the current era.
try find a canon lens that has no nikon equiv, and i'll find you  two nikon lenses that have no canon equiv.
nikon list something near 200 lenses in their matrix.
top - neothermic - site owner - - posts: 105 - joined: tue, 19 2004 oct 23:21:02 post a reply 1 post • page 1 of 1 return to frontpage news jump to: select a forum ------------------
for example, trying to find a matching nikon lens for the canon  28-90mm lens is impossible; nikon do have 28-85mm
thus you can't mount an fd lens on an ef camera without using adaptors, and since canon re-designed the flange to focal plane length as well, the adaptors will need optical elements.
if you want ultra wide lenses,  nikon does appear to have the edge (there's 5 prime lenses between 20 and 13mm  for nikon and 1 fish eye, and two fisheye lenses that are below 10mm).
canon also do have some more consumer  friendly zoom lenses (70-200mm f4 is comes to mind), but if you look for them,  nikon have many f4 lenses for their zoom focal lengths (and even f3.5 and f3.3  and other obscure fixed-aperture zooms)
both offer a good selection of zoom and prime lenses, but  if you're looking for something more special (fast primes?
if you want af inall lenses you can buy, canon wins hands down.
one i see often in such arguments comes down to these criteria: - nikon make better cameras - canon has a better lens selection
what does this mean?
undefined index: feed_topics_active [phpbb debug] php notice: in file /includes/functions.php on line 4469:
news artcles from the front page.
if you want more long-range zooms, nikon wins here.
thus, with some exceptions, you  can mount any f-mount lens on your current dslr bodies (the exceptions being  invasive fish-eyes; it's just wise not to touch these).
they are  still f-mount lenses and thus will always mount.
one i see often  in such arguments comes down to these criteria: nikon make better cameras canon has a better lens selection
this covers everything from a 6mm fisheye to the behemoth 2000mm reflex-nikkor.
another interesting  fact is that nikon made dx lenses - a smaller image circle for their asp-c  cameras.
i will say this, though, for every lens canon has in their ef list, there is a nikon that is comparable, with a few minor exceptions (nikon do not have an 85mm f1.2 for example).
trying to do a more direct  comparison, though, didn't quite go as planned.
the big problem is for  every lens canon has that you can find a matching nikon for (in both aperture  and focal length), there'll be some canon lenses that are of slightly different  focal lengths.
first, nikon make use of the f-mount.
comment on them  here.
canon, meanwhile, have the ef lens mount designed in 1987.
thus it's not overly economical to mount an fd lens on an ef camera.
if you're reading this and want to argue that you can contrast, go for it.
or the nikon 36-72mm f3.5?
nikon's  lens compatibility matrix lists all the f-mount lenses and how compatible they  are with the current crop of nikon dslrs.
how about a match for the canon 100-400?
try find a canon lens that has no nikon equiv, and i'll find you two nikon lenses that have no canon equiv.
canon also made a few ef-s lenses, but these were physically different  enough from ef lenses to mean that you can't mount them on canon's full-frame  range, not even in a cropped mode.
today i'll sit down with evidence and look at the second argument.
you have both  lens charts.
this is a radical change from their fd mount to incorporate electronics such as af and vr in the lens from the outset rather than trying to manipulate the fd mount into the current era.
but no 28-90mm lenses.
being fair, all of canon's listed lenses are af, where as the giants such as the nikon 1200-1700 is not (though try find an af motor to move that optical assembly!).
you have both lens charts.
• page 1 of 1 reply with quote canon vs nikon by neothermic »
the major rule is the d40/d40x/d60 will not af with older lenses, and anything less than a d200 will not meter with really old lenses (ai/pre-ai) either.
modification 3.0 modifications encrypt private messages who is online users browsing this forum: bigbobdymn and 1 guest - board index - the team •
you can also do the inverse.
if you want more fast primes, canon wins.
undefined index: load_unreads_search neothermic.com •
quick examples are: - nikon has five fisheye lenses, canon only has 1 - nikon have 8 macro lenses and 2 tilt/shift macro lenses, canon only has 5 macro lenses, none of which are tilt/shift.
canon's ef/ef-s specification list, meanwhile, lists 61 lenses of which 4 of them are ef-s and thus will not mount or work with canon's full frame cameras.