prices & specifications are subject to change without notice.
autofocus competence
this elegant  camera features a professional cmos image sensor that's as large as those in  high-quality slrs $1,899.00 more details leica x1: maximum performance, meets minimalist design: there's one thing that all leica cameras share: each is born of the  desire to develop cameras that deliver the best picture quality in the world.
same or 3 day pickup or delivery  usually possible.
perfectly capturing the full 35-mm format (24 × 36 mm) in ultra-high resolution.
the leica m9 is the world's first digital system camera of its size to be built with a full-frame sensor - a ccd sensor developed specifically for the m9 - that is capable of perfectly capturing the full 35-mm format (24 × 36 mm) in ultra-high resolution.
simple  handling & complete control
it is the perfect contemporary tool for those who set the highest standards in image quality and are committed to creating images of enduring value.
the  leica m9 is the world's first digital system camera of its size to be built  with a full-frame sensor - a ccd sensor developed specifically for the m9 -  that is capable of perfectly capturing the full 35-mm format (24 × 36 mm
with its high contrast range and natural, perfectly saturated colours, the v-lux 3 sets entirely new standards in its class - for still pictures and video alike.
this elegant camera features a professional cmos  image sensor that's as large as those in high-quality slrs.
versatile exposure with its range of intelligent features, the m7 gives you many options for picture composition.
leica d-lux 5 digital camera new!
lens has an enormous range of focal lengths covering the spectrum from a  25 mm wide angle to a 600 mm super-telephoto lens.
any way you look at it, the leica x1 is a winner: it's conveniently compact, its controls are intuitive, and it offers a full range of sophisticated automatic functions.
today, it is the leica m9, a landmark camera that carries the proud  heritage of leica m cameras into the digital age.
m9-p comes in either black paint or chrome.
on the one hand, its 25 mm  wide angle setting enables photographers to strongly emphasise perspectives,  while on the other hand, its 600 mm telephoto setting captures
- home - canon - canon dslrs - canon lenses - canon wide zooms | - standard range zooms | - telephoto zooms | - pro primes | - macro | - canon accessories - canon speedlites | - grips / power | - fujifilm - leica - leica cameras - leica m lenses - leica accessories - nikon - nikon dslrs - nikon 1 series - nikon lenses - nikon wide zooms | - standard range zooms | - telephoto zooms | - pro primes | - macro | - nikon accessories - nikon speedlights | - grips / power | - olympus - compact cameras - bags |
photographers have a choice of 1 or 11 af segments and an additional  high-speed mode for each.
the key control element of the m9 is an intuitive four-way switch and dial combination used in conjunction with the 2.5-inch lcd monitor on the back.
ttl flash  exposure measurement takes the risk out of flash photography.
we are located at: 5080 timberlea blvd., unit#18, mississauga, ontario, canada.
when taking photos of people, face-recognition mode allows complete concentration on the composition and framing of the picture.
at the same time, the autofocus mode can be modified to suit the  situation.
workflow included with the leica m9, is a license for adobe photoshop lightroom, a professional digital workflow solution available for both mac os x and microsoft windows operating systems.
leica mp rangefinder (0.72)
more details classics are works that are immune to the passing whims of the present.
perfectly  capturing the full 35-mm format (24 × 36 mm) in ultra-high resolution.
it relies solely on the skill of the photographer,  and can be operated without batteries.
leica m9 / 18 mp digital rangefinder camera body (black paint) lease it from just $233 / month the history of 35-mm photography began  almost 100 years ago with the legendary ur-leica.
a design concept that the d-lux 5 carries forth brilliantly and effortlessly.
intuitive photography as an alternative to the familiar  manual method of exposure adjustment - which, of course, can still be used -  the leica m7 offers a convenient, continuously variable, aperture priority mode  with an exposure lock via the shutter release.
video in hd-quality its  additional the d lux 5 features a 1280 x 720pixel hd-video function in  memory-saving avchd-lite format which is started simply by pressing a dedicated  button on the top of the camera.
the new m9 - in the familiar, classic, and timeless m design, represents the quintessence of its predecessors based on the consummate technological level of our time.
the new m9 - in the familiar, classic, and timeless m  design, represents the quintessence of its predecessors based on the consummate  technological level of our time.
the autofocus of the x1  provides fast focusing competence and enables photographers to react in an  instant.
leica v-lux 3 super-zoom 25-600mm new!
with exterior dimensions of 139 x 37 x 80 mm (5.5 x 1.5 x 3.1 in) it maintains the ideal shape of the m camera and becomes the smallest full frame system camera in the world.
if you  like to shoot landscapes, architecture, sport, travel, portraits or wildlife,  the flexibility of its lens makes the v-lux 3 the ideal camera for every  situation.
it's for making pictures only a true photographer  can see, frame and record.
ttl flash exposure measurement takes the risk out of flash photography.
also available in  silver.
free firmware updates ensure that the  camera benefits from the latest technology.
thanks to its newly developed 12.1-megapixel cmos  image sensor, the camera captures images in exceptional quality.
designed to deliver the essentials.
- contact us leica m9-p / 18 mp digital rangefinder camera body (black paint) lease it from just $268 / month $7,839.00 leica m9-p now features a gorgeous minimalist classic leica look with a sapphire lcd screen for better viewing in bright light and the screen is now virtually scratch-proof!
there is now a choice of either manual or automatic  film speed setting (dx coding), eliminating the risk of annoying exposure  errors due to wrong iso settings.
leica m9-p / 18 mp digital rangefinder camera body (black paint) lease it from just $268 / month leica m9-p now features a gorgeous  minimalist classic leica look with a sapphire lcd screen for better viewing in  bright light and the screen is now virtually scratch-proof!
its 24× super-telephoto zoom makes capturing sweeping landscapes just as easy as bringing even the smallest details into the foreground.
the leica x1 is the direct beneficiary of 100-plus years of german engineering experience and it delivers the best picture quality in its class - in the proud leica tradition.
please call us at 1 (800) 956-8323 (canada) or (905) 629-0100 for availability / to order.
the leica elmarit 24 mm f/2.8 asph.
also available in silver.
the stepless aperture priority mode ensures  reliable and precise exposure.
it is hardly unusual that a leica, once owned, becomes a lifelong companion.
please call us at 1 (800) 956-8323 (canada) or (905) 629-0100 for  availability / to order.
the digital components and shutter assembly of the m9 are similarly  constructed with endurance in mind.
leica m7 rangefinder (0.72) black starter set w/ 50mm f2 m summicron lens aperture-priority automation in a 35mm film classic!
it's for making pictures only a true photographer can see, frame and record.
brilliant image quality the d-lux 5 features a newly designed  1/1.63"-ccd image sensor that is particularly large for a compact camera.
we use paypal for online purchases for your  convenience and security.
thus the x1 allows the photographer to keep full control for individual creative art work and at the same time provides the automatic mode to ensure the capability for quick response.
today, it is the leica m9, a landmark camera that carries the proud heritage of leica m cameras into the digital age.
all other functions important for everyday situations are quickly and  easily accessible by pressing the set button: white balance, image-data  compression, resolution, exposure correction, exposure bracketing, and  programmable user profiles.
this allows you to focus easily,  compose quickly and thus devote your full attention to taking the photograph.
free firmware updates ensure that the camera benefits from the latest technology.
the history of 35-mm photography began almost 100 years ago with the legendary ur-leica.
compact, enduring performance and value
the leica x1 is the direct beneficiary of 100-plus years of german  engineering experience and it delivers the best picture quality in its class -  in the proud leica tradition.
it is hardly unusual that a leica,  once owned, becomes a lifelong companion.
$6,889.00 more details the history of 35-mm photography began almost 100 years  ago with the legendary ur-leica.
with its high contrast range and natural, perfectly saturated  colours, the v-lux 3 sets entirely new standards in its class - for still  pictures and video alike.
when taking photos of people, face-recognition mode  allows complete concentration on the composition and framing of the picture.
this also applies to the digital m9: in spite of the larger sensor size, the compact housing of the m8 and m8.2 was being retained.
video in hd-quality its additional the d lux 5 features a 1280 x 720pixel hd-video function in memory-saving avchd-lite format which is started simply by pressing a dedicated button on the top of the camera.
black aperture-priority automation in a 35mm film classic!
focused technology for focused photography, without the  distraction of automation.
exceptional image quality the newly developed 12.1-megapixel cmos image sensor guarantees the exceptional image quality of the leica v-lux 3.
the super-zoom slr alternative camera you can carry everywhere that is ready for anything!
this elegant camera features a professional cmos image sensor that's as large as those in high-quality slrs.
classically mechanical the development of the leica mp incorporates over 50 years of experience.
brilliant image quality the d-lux 5 features a newly designed 1/1.63"-ccd image sensor that is particularly large for a compact camera.
its closed, full-metal housing, crafted from  a high-strength magnesium alloy, and its top deck and bottom plate machined  from large blocks of brass, provide perfect protection for its precious inner  mechanisms.
this also applies to the digital m9:  in spite of the larger sensor size, the compact housing of the m8 and m8.2 was  being retained.
silver halide photography  with a leica m has a special appeal: the understandable process of exposing the  film and the chemical processing of the same piece of material create an  emotional relationship with the subject and the camera.
classic design classical  elegance meets premium quality materials: this characterises the design  philosophy of leica d-lux cameras.
there is now a choice of either manual or automatic film speed setting (dx coding), eliminating the risk of annoying exposure errors due to wrong iso settings.
lens has an enormous range of focal lengths covering the spectrum from a 25 mm wide angle to a 600 mm super-telephoto lens.
it is the perfect contemporary tool for those  who set the highest standards in image quality and are committed to creating  images of enduring value.
silver halide photography with a leica m has a special appeal: the understandable process of exposing the film and the chemical processing of the same piece of material create an emotional relationship with the subject and the camera.
the leica x1 offers versatile photography in terms of her numerous automatic functions and manual individual settings.
creative latitude is offered by synchronisation times down to 1/1000 s and flash synchronisation at the second shutter curtain.
this versatile compact camera featuring a fast  leica summicron zoom lens with focal-lengths from 24 to 90 mm (35 mm  equivalent), is the perfect camera for a broad spectrum of photgraphic  situations: from macro and wide angle architecture to landscape, from reportage  to portrait and available-light photography.
a design concept that the d-lux 5 carries  forth brilliantly and effortlessly.
countless iconic images in the history of photography were shot with a fixed focal length of 35 mm.
leica x1 / 12 mp digital compact camera (classic black) lease it from just $72 / month $1,899.00 the leica x1 is the direct beneficiary of 100-plus years of german engineering experience and it delivers the best picture quality in its class - in the proud leica tradition.
contact us - home » - leica » - leica cameras »
please call us at 1 (800) 956-8323 (canada) or  (905) 629-0100 for availability / to order.
the leica m9 is the world's  first digital system camera of its size to be built with a full-frame sensor -  a ccd sensor developed specifically for the m9 - that is capable of
it ensures that images are almost totally free of noise - even under adverse lighting conditions and when using high-sensitivity settings.
a real leica "made in germany".
$919.99 more details with a leica v-lux 3, your creative freedom is boundless.
same or 3 day pickup or delivery usually possible.
not a quick fling, but the camera for a lifetime.
focused technology for focused photography, without the distraction of automation.
classically mechanical the development of the leica mp  incorporates over 50 years of experience.
the use of external uv/ir filters is not required.
the concentration when  taking the photograph, the keen anticipation of the literally tangible images  and the excellent results are all arguments in favour of analog leica m cameras.
the robust body can withstand the  harshest conditions.
the stepless aperture priority mode ensures reliable and precise exposure.
leica: legendary cameras tweet photocreative inc. is an authorized leica dealer with  comprehensive knowledge and hands-on experience shooting with leica m cameras,  m-lenses and with the latest digital p&s models.
they are never rewritten, but re-interpreted on the basis of a changed world.
the user profiles can be programmed with any combination of camera and shooting settings, stored under an assigned name, and accessed quickly whenever required for a particular situation.
the leica elmarit 24 mm f/2.8 asph. is a true leica lens with terrific optical performance.
leica m9 / 18 mp digital rangefinder camera body (steel-gray paint) lease it from just $233 / month $6,889.00 the history of 35-mm photography began almost 100 years ago with the legendary ur-leica.
the new king of compact cameras for  size, style and image-quality! $799.00 more details the d-lux 5 is a true leica, not only in terms of its  elegant design but also in its superior optical performance: the result are  images of excellent quality.
the simple handling and menus of the leica m9 allow the photographer to concentrate on taking pictures, not the controls.
thus the x1 allows the  photographer to keep full control for individual creative art work and at the  same time provides the automatic mode to ensure the capability for quick  response.
the sensor of the m9 uses a newly developed cover glass to  eliminate infrared light contamination and allows the utilisation of existing  leica m lenses with out a loss of image quality.
leica lenses are among the world's very best — optics that are so sharp and so well-corrected!
the leica red dot  is a symbol of quality recognized world-wide for over 80 years.
always ready the leica mp is ever reliable.
workflow included with the leica m9, is a license for adobe photoshop  lightroom, a professional digital workflow solution available for both mac os x  and microsoft windows operating systems.
at the same  time, the video capability of the v-lux 3 allows the recording of moving  pictures in full-hd quality.
exceptional image quality the newly  developed 12.1-megapixel cmos image sensor guarantees the exceptional image  quality of the leica v-lux 3.
the leica m9 is the world's first digital system camera of its  size to be built with a full-frame sensor - a ccd sensor developed specifically  for the m9 - that is capable of perfectly capturing the full 35-mm format (24  × 36 mm) in ultra-high resolution.
the use of external uv/ir  filters is not required.
creative latitude  is offered by synchronisation times down to 1/1000 s and flash synchronisation  at the second shutter curtain.
manual setting options and an extensive range of accessories provide even greater creative freedom.
this leica dc vario-elmarit 1:2.8-5.2/4.5-108 mm  asph.
the leica x1 offers versatile photography  in terms of her numerous automatic functions and manual individual settings.
work in comfort ergonomically  located right next to the shutter release button, the on/off button activates  the electronics of the leica m7 and also disables the shutter release when the  camera is switched off.
the super-zoom slr alternative camera you can carry everywhere that is  ready for anything!
it's an experience you will sense as soon as you hold  this masterpiece in your hands.
$7,839.00 more details the history of 35-mm photography began almost 100 years  ago with the legendary ur-leica.
the software is a free download for leica m9 customers, to guarantee that the most current version is always available.
the camera is available in classic black vulcanit  finish or elegant steel grey with traditional fine leatherette finish.
simple handling & complete control
it is the quintessential mechanical range/viewfinder camera.
full - frame 24 x 36 mm capture  without any compromises
the software is a free download for leica m9 customers, to guarantee that the most current version is always  available.
photographers have a choice of 1 or 11 af segments and an additional high-speed mode for each.
the analog leica m7 is such a classic.
versatile exposure with its range of intelligent  features, the m7 gives you many options for picture composition.
any way you  look at it, the leica x1 is a winner: it's conveniently compact, its controls  are intuitive, and it offers a full range of sophisticated automatic functions.
this allows you to focus easily, compose quickly and thus devote your full attention to taking the photograph.
combined with an  outstanding leica lens it captures images of unmatched brilliance.
its closed, full-metal housing, crafted from a high-strength magnesium alloy, and its top deck and bottom plate machined from large blocks of brass, provide perfect protection for its precious inner mechanisms.
elegant matt black throughout, with sparse  accents in chrome and uncomplicated distinctive lines, it possesses a  compellingly purist and simultaneously timeless modern design.
the concentration when taking the photograph, the keen anticipation of the literally tangible images and the excellent results are all arguments in favour of analog leica m cameras.
on the one hand, its 25 mm wide angle setting enables photographers to strongly emphasise perspectives, while on the other hand, its 600 mm telephoto setting captures pin-sharp details of objects even at extremely long distances - even when shooting handheld, thanks to the efficiency of its power ois image stabiliser.
it ensures that images are almost totally free of  noise - even under adverse lighting conditions and when using high-sensitivity  settings.
they are never rewritten, but re-interpreted on the basis of a  changed world.
the proprietry ccd  sensor in the leica m9 with18 million pixels, allows the utilisation of the  full 35 mm format.
this leica dc vario-elmarit 1:2.8-5.2/4.5-108 mm asph.
handcrafted, created for the photographic artist.
to set the iso sensitivity, simply maintain light pressure on the iso button while simultaneously turning the dial to select the required setting.
countless iconic images in the history of photography  were shot with a fixed focal length of 35 mm.
it relies solely on the skill of the photographer, and can be operated without batteries.
it's an experience you will sense as soon as you hold this masterpiece in your hands.
ergonomically located right next to the shutter release button, the on/off button activates the electronics of the leica m7 and also disables the shutter release when the camera is switched off.
leica: legendary cameras tweet photocreative inc. is an authorized leica dealer with comprehensive knowledge and hands-on experience shooting with leica m cameras, m-lenses and with the latest digital p&s models.
minimalizing to the max pared down to the absolute essentials, the leica mp is intuitive in operation but leaves all the crucial decisions and settings to the photographer.
the photographer can choose the easy way and let the camera take the lead over  exposure or shutter settings in the automatic mode or switch over to manual  controls by using the wheels on top of the camera.
manual setting options  and an extensive range of accessories provide even greater creative freedom.
this elegant camera features a professional cmos image sensor that's as large as those in high-quality slrs more details leica x1: maximum performance, meets minimalist design: there's one thing that all leica cameras share: each is born of the desire to develop cameras that deliver the best picture quality in the world.
prices are in canadian dollars.
if you like to shoot landscapes, architecture, sport, travel, portraits or wildlife, the flexibility of its lens makes the v-lux 3 the ideal camera for every situation.
the leica mp is  a supreme tool.
viewfinder displays facilitate photography with  long exposure times.
with exterior dimensions of 139 x 37 x 80 mm (5.5 x 1.5 x 3.1  in) it maintains the ideal shape of the m camera and becomes the smallest full  frame system camera in the world.
autofocus and the entire 3.8x zoom range  remain available during recording.
even at the standard resolution of 10.1 megapixels, this contributes to a  significant increase in image quality.
the simple handling  and menus of the leica m9 allow the photographer to concentrate on taking  pictures, not the controls.
now with 24-90mm f2 lens!
leica x1 / 12 mp digital compact camera (classic black) lease it from just $72 / month the leica x1 is the direct beneficiary  of 100-plus years of german engineering experience and it delivers the best  picture quality in its class - in the proud leica tradition.
today, it is the leica m9, a  landmark camera that carries the proud heritage of leica m cameras into the  digital age.
$6,479.00 out of stock special-order item.
and a system that is unique for rangefinder  cameras gives a clearly legible display of all the information in the  viewfinder of the leica m7 - even in critical side light.
leica m7 rangefinder (0.72)
home » leica » leica cameras » © 2011 photocreative  inc.
with such versatile performance in such a compact package, the d-lux 5 is the perfect companion whenever you seek inspiration - in berlin or anywhere else in the world . . .
zoom lens offers an extremely  practical range of focal lengths (24-90 mm-equivalent in 35mm format) with it  leica sets another new benchmark in the history of compact camera lenses.
$919.99 more details with a leica v-lux 3, your  creative freedom is boundless.
black mechanical perfection in a 35mm film classic!
the newly developed, fast, leica dc vario-summicron 1:2-3.3/5.1-19.2 mm asph.
the photographer can choose the easy way and let the camera take the lead over exposure or shutter settings in the automatic mode or switch over to manual controls by using the wheels on top of the camera.
when seen in terms of 35-mm film format, it has  precisely this legendary focal length of 35 mm.
the autofocus of the x1 provides fast focusing competence and enables photographers to react in an instant.
leica lenses  are among the world's very best — optics that are so sharp and so  well-corrected!
in short: the leica m9 is an investment for a lifetime.
its 24× super-telephoto zoom makes  capturing sweeping landscapes just as easy as bringing even the smallest  details into the foreground.
we are located at: 5080 timberlea blvd., unit#18, mississauga, ontario,  canada.
the camera is available in classic black vulcanit finish or elegant steel grey with traditional fine leatherette finish.
and a system that is unique for rangefinder cameras gives a clearly legible display of all the information in the viewfinder of the leica m7 - even in critical side light.
at the same time, the video capability of the v-lux 3 allows the recording of moving pictures in full-hd quality.
extreme range of focal lengths what makes the v-lux 3 so special is its 24× super-telephoto zoom lens.
zoom lens offers an extremely practical range of focal lengths (24-90 mm-equivalent in 35mm format) with it leica sets another new benchmark in the history of compact camera lenses.
)  in ultra-high resolution.
this focal length is considered to be a classic for reportage photography, and has lost none of its timeless charisma today.
leica m9-p / 18 mp digital rangefinder camera body (chrome) lease it from just $268 / month $7,839.00 leica m9-p now features a gorgeous minimalist classic leica look with a sapphire lcd screen for better viewing in bright light and the screen is now virtually scratch-proof!
to set the iso sensitivity, simply maintain light pressure  on the iso button while simultaneously turning the dial to select the required  setting.
always ready the  leica mp is ever reliable.
$4,939.00 out of stock more details classics are works that are immune to the passing whims  of the present.
pin-sharp  details of objects even at extremely long distances - even when shooting  handheld, thanks to the efficiency of its power ois image stabiliser.
this versatile compact camera featuring a fast leica summicron zoom lens with focal-lengths from 24 to 90 mm (35 mm equivalent), is the perfect camera for a broad spectrum of photgraphic situations: from macro and wide angle architecture to landscape, from reportage to portrait and available-light photography.
m9-p  comes in either black paint or chrome.
the user profiles can be programmed with any  combination of camera and shooting settings, stored under an assigned name, and  accessed quickly whenever required for a particular situation.
the newly developed, fast, leica  dc vario-summicron 1:2-3.3/5.1-19.2 mm asph.
leica m9 / 18 mp digital rangefinder camera body (steel-gray paint) lease it from just $233 / month the history of 35-mm photography began  almost 100 years ago with the legendary ur-leica.
at the same time, the autofocus mode can be modified to suit the situation.
designed to  deliver the essentials.
we use paypal for online purchases for your convenience and security.
when seen in terms of 35-mm film format, it has precisely this legendary focal length of 35 mm.
thanks to its newly developed 12.1-megapixel cmos image sensor, the camera captures images in exceptional quality.
autofocus and the entire 3.8x zoom range remain available during recording.
the digital components and shutter assembly of the m9 are similarly constructed with endurance in mind.
viewfinder displays facilitate photography with long exposure times.
the robust body can withstand the harshest conditions.
the combination of an extremely high-resolution sensor, high performance m lenses and careful processing of the digital picture data provides the best picture results under all conditions.
the leica elmarit  24 mm f/2.8 asph.
the history of 35-mm photography began almost 100 years ago with the legendary  ur-leica.
accessories - used - large prints - company - about us - hours & location - policy - trade-ins are welcome!
minimalizing to the max pared down to the absolute  essentials, the leica mp is intuitive in operation but leaves all the crucial  decisions and settings to the photographer.
the  history of 35-mm photography began almost 100 years ago with the legendary  ur-leica.
today, it is the leica m9, a landmark camera  that carries the proud heritage of leica m cameras into the digital age.
more details the d-lux 5 is a true leica, not only in terms of its elegant design but also in its superior optical performance: the result are images of excellent quality.
this focal length is considered  to be a classic for reportage photography, and has lost none of its timeless  charisma today.
the proprietry ccd sensor in the leica m9 with18 million pixels, allows the utilisation of the full 35 mm format.
it is the classic, purely mechanical alternative to the leica m7, a camera that offers added comfort and speed with its electronic shutter and aperture-priority metering system.
extreme range of  focal lengths what makes the v-lux 3 so special is its 24×  super-telephoto zoom lens.
and its controls are all metal.
$6,479.00 out of stock more details classics are works that are immune to the passing whims  of the present.
the leica red dot is a symbol of quality recognized world-wide for over 80 years.
even at the standard resolution of 10.1 megapixels, this contributes to a significant increase in image quality.
all other functions important for everyday situations are quickly and easily accessible by pressing the set button: white balance, image-data compression, resolution, exposure correction, exposure bracketing, and programmable user profiles.
classic design classical elegance meets premium quality materials: this characterises the design philosophy of leica d-lux cameras.
in short: the leica m9 is an  investment for a lifetime.
$799.00 the new king of compact cameras for size, style and image-quality!
with such versatile performance in such a compact package, the d-lux 5 is the  perfect companion whenever you seek inspiration - in berlin or anywhere else in  the world . . .
leica m9-p / 18 mp digital rangefinder camera body (chrome) lease it from just $268 / month leica m9-p now features a  gorgeous minimalist classic leica look with a sapphire lcd screen for better  viewing in bright light and the screen is now virtually scratch-proof!
combined with an outstanding leica lens it captures images of unmatched brilliance.
the sensor of the m9 uses a newly developed cover glass to eliminate infrared light contamination and allows the utilisation of existing leica m lenses with out a loss of image quality.
$4,939.00 out of stock special-order item.
the leica m9 is the world's first digital system camera of its size to be built with a full-frame sensor - a ccd sensor developed specifically for the m9 - that is capable of
full - frame 24 x 36 mm capture without any compromises
leica m9 / 18 mp digital rangefinder camera body (black paint) lease it from just $233 / month $6,889.00 the history of 35-mm photography began almost 100 years ago with the legendary ur-leica.
more details (also available in silver) the leica mp is a supreme tool.
it is the quintessential mechanical  range/viewfinder camera.
the combination of an extremely high-resolution  sensor, high performance m lenses and careful processing of the digital picture  data provides the best picture results under all conditions.
$4,939.00  out of stock more details (also available in silver)
the leica elmarit 24 mm f/2.8 asph. is a true leica lens with  terrific optical performance.
elegant matt black throughout, with sparse accents in chrome and uncomplicated distinctive lines, it possesses a compellingly purist and simultaneously timeless modern design.
a single glance says it all: it is a true leica.
a single glance  says it all: it is a true leica.
intuitive photography as an alternative to the familiar manual method of exposure adjustment - which, of course, can still be used - the leica m7 offers a convenient, continuously variable, aperture priority mode with an exposure lock via the shutter release.
it is the classic, purely  mechanical alternative to the leica m7, a camera that offers added comfort and  speed with its electronic shutter and aperture-priority metering system.
the key control element of the m9 is an intuitive  four-way switch and dial combination used in conjunction with the 2.5-inch lcd  monitor on the back.