best of all, it  doesn't seem to share other dslrs' tendencies to overexpose in high contrast  situations.
but it also has four  different modes for using the af points, whereas the canon only has two.
resolution, body and controls canon's t3i has 18mp of resolution compared to nikon's 16.2mp.
a part of the new york times company.
in these modes, the controller only allows for  moving the af-point around its nine points.
it's unlikely, though, that you'll notice much difference in real world terms.
best of all, it doesn't seem to share other dslrs' tendencies to overexpose in high contrast situations.
they're both sturdy little cameras, and they feel substantial.
the t3i has a four-way controller (which is a little on the small side), giving access towhite balance, focus, drive modes, and picture styles.
nikon's d5100 dslr camera nikon more images (2)
discuss in my forum from jo plumridge, former contributing writersee more about: nikon's d5100 dslr cameranikon more images (2)
i'll take a look at the key points on each camera  to help you make a more informed decision.
however, the t3i yet again has canon's trademark problems in coping with  artificial light when using auto white balance, as images are distinctly  orange.
both cameras  have their plus points though, and users are unlikely to be disappointed by  either machine.
it also has better dynamic range and color depth than the canon.
both cameras have their plus points though, and users are unlikely to be disappointed by either machine.
the only place where the canon falls down on controls is in the  inexplicable change of functions of the 4-way controller once the camera  is in live view or movie mode.
the d5100 has 11 points to the t3i's nine.
there's also a dedicated button foriso, something which the  nikon d5100 is lacking.
if you're not tied into a system, the choice of cameras can seem bewildering.
while both cameras produce great images, the d5100 is just a little bit better in most respects.
i'll take a look at the key points on each camera to help you make a more informed decision.
this is confusing, to say the least!
since  the days of 35mm film, the two manufacturers have been close competitors.
when it comes to controls and ease of use, i feel that the canon is still  yards ahead of the nikon.
but it also has four different modes for using the af points, whereas the canon only has two.
traditionally, things seem to see-saw between the two, with each manufacturer becoming stronger for a while, before fading away to the other.
which is the better buy?
nikon d3100 best consumer dslr cameras
if you're not tied into a system, the choice of cameras can seem  bewildering.
however, the t3i yet again has canon's trademark problems in coping with artificial light when using auto white balance, as images are distinctly orange.
in conclusion i personally find the layout and control system of the nikon confusing and  somewhat lacking in key areas.
in this article, i'm going to take a look at the two manufacturers' mid-range consumer dslr cameras:
they're both sturdy little cameras, and they feel  substantial.
it's  unlikely, though, that you'll notice much difference in real world terms.
traditionally, things seem to see-saw between the two, with each manufacturer  becoming stronger for a while, before fading away to the other.
the only place where the canon falls down on controls is in the inexplicable change of functions of the 4-way controller once the camera is in live view or movie mode.
thecanon t3i and the nikon d5100.
the canon produces excellent images in bothraw and jpeg formats, and it copes very well at high isos, offering users the option to reduce noise to their own set trade-offs against image detail and quality.
the canon's hand grip is perhaps marginally easier to use, but  both cameras have articulated lcd screens.
despite the availability of a variety of dslr manufacturers, the canon versus nikon debate is still going strong.
in these modes, the controller only allows for moving the af-point around its nine points.
nikon d300s canon t3 vs.
both cameras weigh almost the same, with the canon weighing just 0.35 ounces (10g) more.
while both cameras produce great images, the d5100 is just a little bit  better in most respects.
suggested reading canon 7d vs.
the canon's hand grip is perhaps marginally easier to use, but both cameras have articulated lcd screens.
however, image quality is where it counts, so, if you're new to digital cameras, then the nikon has the edge.
both cameras weigh almost the same, with the canon weighing just 0.35  ounces (10g) more.
there's also a dedicated button foriso, something which the nikon d5100 is lacking.
existing nikon users will also be confused by the  re-design of control layout on the d5100 due to the articulated lcd screen.
when it comes to controls and ease of use, i feel that the canon is still yards ahead of the nikon.
i personally find the layout and control system of the nikon confusing and somewhat lacking in key areas.
the nikon also produces excellent images in both raw and jpeg, and it does an even better job of keeping thenoise down at high isos.
the nikon also produces excellent images in both raw and jpeg, and it does  an even better job of keeping thenoise down at high isos.
however, image quality is where it counts, so,  if you're new to digital cameras, then the nikon has the edge.
despite the availability of a variety of dslr manufacturers,  the canon versus nikon debate is still going strong.
since the days of 35mm film, the two manufacturers have been close competitors.
however, the nikon'saf points are part of a far more sophisticated system than  the canon's.
the t3i is also more prone to chromatic aberration than the d5100.
the canon produces excellent images in bothraw and  jpeg formats, and it copes very well at high isos, offering users the option to  reduce noise to their own set trade-offs against image detail and quality.
the t3i has a four-way controller (which is a little  on the small side), giving access towhite balance, focus, drive modes, and  picture styles.
existing nikon users will also be confused by the re-design of control layout on the d5100 due to the articulated lcd screen.
however, the nikon'saf points are part of a far more sophisticated system than the canon's.
autofocus and af points both cameras have solid and reliable autofocus, although the nikon's speed  is reliant on whatever lens you're using, as it has no in-body autofocus motor.
both cameras have solid and reliable autofocus, although the nikon's speed is reliant on whatever lens you're using, as it has no in-body autofocus motor.
in this article, i'm going to take a look at the two manufacturers'  mid-range consumer dslr cameras:
canon's t3i has 18mp of resolution compared to nikon's 16.2mp.