please enable javascript to use ratings.
your rating has been counted!
- show all comments - show latest 4 comments leave your comment your comments: ↓ ↓ name: (required) ↓ ↓ e-mail: (required but will not be published) ↓ ↓ please note that we review all comments before they will appear on our site.
ipc media limited, owner of whatdigitalcamera.co.uk, will collect your personal information solely to process your request.
one of eleven copies of the brilliant magix photostory on cd & dvd 10 deluxe hd!
magazine links - latest issue - subscribe - buy a digital edition - free digital magazine - back issues newsletter sign up to our free newsletter to get the latest updates from what digital camera newsletter sign-up details e-mail: more information latest competitions win!
fucos canon:) november 26
february 05 13:00 ash canon is good for vedios & nikon is good for taking pictures so i got  the nikon its simple.
our 600d vs d5100 video review talks through the two cameras... highest rated nikon d800 and d800e videos fujifilm finepix hs20 vs sony cyber-shot hx100v video review nikon d5100 review video most discussed canon powershot sx30 is video preview panasonic lumix gh-1 video preview tough camera grouptest video latest articles sony cybershot dsc-hx200v first look video fujifilm x10 video review fujifilm x-s1 video review javascript appears to be disabled in your browser.
- not bad - not bad - not bad - ok - ok - good - good - great - great - fantastic current rating 4 (11 others voted) have your say!
august 08 12:09 rebecca nuttall i thought the canon was a better model, purely for the fact that it was  more user friendly, and the nikons autofocus while shooting hd vid was very  poor, as it was always hunting.
- skip to page content - skip to navigation - skip to site search navigation - home - equipment & reviews - news - blogs - techniques - galleries - forum - videos - magazine - search - prev article - next article - home - videos - product reviews nikon d5100 vs canon eos 600d video review - thu, 2 jun 2011 - mike lowe - comments (6) the canon eos 600d and nikon d5100 are closely-matched mid-range dslr cameras.
your comments will be recorded, but you might not be benefiting all the features.
but still i confused which one is best from this two camera..
enter now... more competitions - home - equipment & reviews - news - blogs - techniques - videos - galleries - forum - magazine - about what digital camera - contact us - advertise - subscribe - amateur photographer - web user - trusted reviews - © copyright 2012 - terms & conditions - privacy policy - ipc media
thank u january 04 08:17 masmax go for canon 600d, because canon is reliable company... with nikon if  something go wrong it will end wrong!
decent review, but picture is grainy and sound is poor.
plz help me and tell me why its best... thank u january 04 08:17 masmax go for canon 600d, because canon is reliable company... with nikon if something go wrong it will end wrong!
go to our competition page to enter.
back to top other site sections broadband more from broadband courses more from photography courses where to buy more from where to buy latest issue what digital camera march 2012
latest comments - add your comments - show all comments - show latest 4 comments june 12 10:32 martin fenech decent review, but picture is grainy and sound is poor.
04:00 dave i want to buy either canon 600d or nikon d5100.
one of three epson stylus photo px730wd printers worth over £250 each!
february 05 13:00 ash canon is good for vedios & nikon is good for taking pictures so i got the nikon its simple.
august 09 16:06 nat canon all the way way better and easier to use who cares about contineus  auto fucos pro video makers allways use man.
post javascript appears to be disabled in your browser.
enter our competition to win a copy of this...
i also thought that zoom was much faster with the canon than with the nikon.
august 09 16:06 nat canon all the way way better and easier to use who cares about contineus auto fucos pro video makers allways use man.
i also thought that zoom was much faster with  the canon than with the nikon.
plz help me and tell me why its best...
august 08 12:09 rebecca nuttall i thought the canon was a better model, purely for the fact that it was more user friendly, and the nikons autofocus while shooting hd vid was very poor, as it was always hunting.
but still i confused which  one is best from this two camera..