however, it's unlikely that you'd even notice the difference unless you plan to regularly produce billboard-sized prints!
this is particularly useful if you are shooting in different formats, or you don't want the risk of putting all your images on just one card.
since the days of 35mm film, the two  manufacturers have been close competitors.
i've been a canon user since i was about 15, while my assistant has always used nikons, and we can argue about the two systems until the cows come home!
traditionally, things seem to  see-saw between the two, with each manufacturer becoming stronger for a while,  before fading away to the other.
while both cameras allow the users to pick a  single af point, the nikon also allows for nine-, 21-, and 39-point dynamic  area af.
not only does it offer the first dslr flip-out lcd screen, but the screen has more resolution than the nikon.
this is probably because nikons tend to run a little bright on colors, which reflects back into the problem.
the nikon is made from magnesium  alloy, and is certainly a far more suitable camera if you intend to shoot  outside in disagreeable weather conditions.
resolution, controls, and body the canon wins hands-down on resolution, offering 18mp to nikon's 16.2mp.
it's also proportioned at 3:2, which means that it displays images at a more natural ratio.
otherwise, i'd recommend the canon.
i would, however, recommend the nikon if you plan to work in inhospitable  conditions (as it's far more solid) or are only ever going to shoot in jpeg.
hd movie mode while both cameras offer an hd movie mode, only the canon can shoot at  30fps.
but, even though the canon is made of plastic, it's both bigger and  heavier than the nikon.
both of these  cameras are aimed at those who want to take their photography a step farther.
which is the better buy?
canon's 60d uses a now somewhat  antiquated nine-point cross-type af system, while the nikon offers 39af points,  with nine cross-type points.
despite the availability of a variety of dslr manufacturers, the canon vs. nikon debate is still going strong.
the nikon, however, produces much better color rendition in jpeg format than the canon, although both produce stunningraw images.
for those new to dslrs, it's an easier camera to begin using well straight out of the box.
and  if you're interested in making movies, the canon has far more options.
once you, as a photographer, become tied into one system, you'll probably become fairly fanatical about it!
i'll take a look at the key points on each camera  to help you make a better informed decision.
however, it's unlikely that you'd even notice the difference unless you plan to  regularly produce billboard-sized prints!
the canon is made from a plastic shell (a vast departure from its predecessor,  the 50d, which was made from magnesium alloy).
a part of the new york times company.
nikon's "live view" setup isn't great, either, but there are plenty of options for customization -- providing you take the time to set up the camera properly at initial purchase, and you know what you are doing!
but, even though the canon is made of plastic, it's both bigger and heavier than the nikon.
in this article, i'm going to take a look at two of the most popular enthusiast cameras -- thecanon 60d and the nikon d7000.
i've been a canon user since i was about 15,  while my assistant has always used nikons, and we can argue about the two  systems until the cows come home!
but the nikon does allow  autofocus during movie recording.
lcd screen the canon is by far the better camera in the lcd department.
canon's 60d uses a now somewhat antiquated nine-point cross-type af system, while the nikon offers 39af points, with nine cross-type points.
if you're not tied into a system, the choice of cameras can seem bewildering.
in this article, i'm going to take a look at two of the most  popular enthusiast cameras -- thecanon 60d and the nikon d7000.
i'll take a look at the key points on each camera to help you make a better informed decision.
while both cameras allow the users to pick a single af point, the nikon also allows for nine-, 21-, and 39-point dynamic area af.
the canon has lost quite a few buttons featured on the 50d, and the buttons  it does have now only have a single function.
nikon's "live view" setup  isn't great, either, but there are plenty of options for customization --
when it comes to controls, neither of the cameras is perfect.
and if you're interested in making movies, the canon has far more options.
like the nikon, it also has several customizable  buttons.
the nikon is made from magnesium alloy, and is certainly a far more suitable camera if you intend to shoot outside in disagreeable weather conditions.
the nikon, however, produces much better color rendition in jpeg  format than the canon, although both produce stunningraw images.
this is  probably because nikons tend to run a little bright on colors, which reflects  back into the problem.
the canon is made from a plastic shell (a vast departure from its predecessor, the 50d, which was made from magnesium alloy).
this is particularly useful if you are shooting in different formats, or you  don't want the risk of putting all your images on just one card.
image quality both cameras perform well at high isos, giving printable results even at  iso 6400.
in conclusion in my mind, the canon 60d just edges the nikon d7000 because of its  slightly superior image quality and less fiddly controls.
nikon has yet again put theiso button in a "fiddly" position, where it can't be changed while the camera is at eye-level.
both cameras have comfortable hand grips.
both cameras have a tendency to overexpose in high-contrast situations, although it's definitely more noticeable on the nikon by quite a large degree.
nikon has yet  again put theiso button in a "fiddly" position, where it can't be  changed while the camera is at eye-level.
both cameras  have a tendency to overexpose in high-contrast situations, although it's  definitely more noticeable on the nikon by quite a large degree.
the nikon is restricted to 24fps in hd mode.
if you're not tied into a system, the choice of cameras can seem  bewildering.
traditionally, things seem to see-saw between the two, with each manufacturer becoming stronger for a while, before fading away to the other.
once you, as a photographer, become tied into one system, you'll probably  become fairly fanatical about it!
but the nikon does allow autofocus during movie recording.
suggested reading best advanced cameras for under $500 best dil cameras for under $750 best dslr cameras for under $2,000 suggested reading
for those new to  dslrs, it's an easier camera to begin using well straight out of the box.
more importantly, there is a big difference in the bodies' construction.
if i were being totally objective, though, i would say that nikon bodies tend to be marginally tougher and better laid-out, while canon lenses still have the edge optically.
in this department, the nikon is king.
the canon wins hands-down on resolution, offering 18mp to nikon's 16.2mp.
like the nikon, it also has several customizable buttons.
while both cameras offer an hd movie mode, only the canon can shoot at 30fps.
the canon has lost quite a few buttons featured on the 50d, and the buttons it does have now only have a single function.
the canon is by far the better camera in the lcd department.
it does benefit from a "q" button, which takes users into the q menu screen, which lists the key shooting parameters.
discuss in my forum from jo plumridge, former contributing writersee more about: canon's 60d dslr cameracanon more images (2)
both of these cameras are aimed at those who want to take their photography a step farther.
it's also proportioned at 3:2, which means that it displays  images at a more natural ratio.
providing you take the time to set up the camera properly at initial purchase,  and you know what you are doing!
in my mind, the canon 60d just edges the nikon d7000 because of its slightly superior image quality and less fiddly controls.
since the days of 35mm film, the two manufacturers have been close competitors.
both cameras have comfortable hand  grips.
both cameras perform well at high isos, giving printable results even at iso 6400.
canon's 60d dslr camera canon more images (2) despite the availability of a variety of dslr manufacturers, the canon vs.  nikon debate is still going strong.
it does benefit from a  "q" button, which takes users into the q menu screen, which lists the  key shooting parameters.
both cameras will accept the new sdxc cards, which allow users up to 2tbs of space!
however, the nikon has two sd card slots, which is a great addition.
i would, however, recommend the nikon if you plan to work in inhospitable conditions (as it's far more solid) or are only ever going to shoot in jpeg.
if i were being totally objective, though, i  would say that nikon bodies tend to be marginally tougher and better laid-out,  while canon lenses still have the edge optically.
not only does  it offer the first dslr flip-out lcd screen, but the screen has more resolution  than the nikon.
sd cards both cameras will accept the new sdxc cards, which allow users up to 2tbs  of space!