well bill, do you have the power of your convictions or were you  just leading us on?
for the serious photographer, there comes a time when consideration of a new camera is on the mind.
i can’t up the frames per second by choosing a different format.
proven image results.
the equipment must stand up to extreme temperatures, rain,  snow, sleet, and heat.
and yes, a good  camera will produce better images, even though the key ingredient is always the  photographer and the photographer’s skills.
and yes, more megapixels produce better resolution.
yes, a canon xti will produce great images, i have some to prove it, but it won’t last very long with the kind of travel photography that i do.
course, the major consideration for me is that i own lots of canon l glass.
well bill, do you have the power of your convictions or were you just leading us on?reply hi paul, i have written lots of nonsense in my time, this isn’t the first or the last time that i will.
i am pleased with the 1ds mark ii, although the speed of the 1d mark iin and the 1.3 multiplier sure is great for wildlife.
five years ahead, we might very well be totally shocked at what is produced as technology gets better and better.
the scores of the d3x indicate it is the best of the lot.
and choices of lenses will be the bane of the photographer.
no it does not offer different shooting modes.
full frame and partial frame at higher speeds.
and i am very happy with the 1ds mkiii’s resolution, just not happy with canon quality-control.
what is good is that we do have some amazing options today.
the real market for both the d3x and the 1ds mark iii, is not nature photographers, it is the professional photographer who does studio work, weddings, or the sports shooters and newspaper reporters who use the camera on a daily basis.
canon 5d mark ii –  first impressions (part three)→ choices: nikon d3x, canon 1ds iii, canon 5d ii posted on august 15,  2010 by bill
problem is, the movies i have seen are terrible, with jerky  motion.
that is interesting, it is in fact a major consideration.
← ireland canon 5d mark ii –  first impressions (part three)→ 11 responses to choices: nikon d3x, canon 1ds iii, canon 5d ii prashant setya says: october 21, 2010 at 1:08 pm nikon d3x is an awesome camera .
so, i am considering three cameras for a possible purchase within the next six months.
both the mk iii and the d3x are good top of the line pro cameras.
which is superior is splitting hairs and, if you have one, the question of buying the other should be answered by your accountant.
at 24mp there is nothing out there, other than the sony alpha, that offers this much resolution.
in other words, it’s better than its sibling, but not yet a professional grade camera.
reply hard choice bill, shame the 5d is showing some strange black dots next to bright areas…canon yet to comment, here we go again?
my quandary is wanting one camera that will do both, one that will withstand the rough treatment of travel and usage.
the question is, which offers me an opportunity for better quality given my style of shooting and the types of images i like to capture?
best regards, billreply hi neil, it’s tough finding the right camera!
weather sealed and built like a small abrams tank.
in any case i’ll be  subscribing to your feed
and frankly, i have  no desire to lug such equipment around.
any flaw in a lens will show.
at 21.1 megapixels it is a tad shy of the nikon d3x offering, but it has  been around for a good while and the images it produces are equal, in my  opinon, to the new nikon offering.
but one must think for a moment.
so, cost is not always a  valid consideration.
but, one thing is for sure, i don’t envision that anytime soon i  would have the funds to jump into the medium format arena.
waiting for another six months is certainly an option for me.
for example: the canon 300 mm f/4 l is, see: http://www.bill.lockharts.com/index.php/tag/canon-300mm-f4l-is the canon 100-400mm f/4.5.-5.6l, see: http://www.bill.lockharts.com/index.php/tag/canon-100-400mm-f45-56l and the fabulous 200mm f/2.8l, see: http://www.bill.lockharts.com/index.php/tag/canon-200mm-f28l btw, i have a 1ds mark ii with about 12,000 shutter releases for sale.
i hate to even think about it, i yearn for a light-weight  camera that produces great images.
if he really means it, he should dump all his canon  equipment, not even consider nikon, and immediately run out and buy a couple of  mamiya rz67 pro iid bodies, a bunch of lenses, 2 leaf backs, and a bunch of car  batteries.
the only beneficiary of that merry-go-round are camera dealers and used camera buyers.
or if i am in the shetland islands and snow and  sleet are hitting me with temperatures well below freezing, what camera do i  want in my bag?
all produce images above 21 mp.
nikon d3x is an awesome camera .
five years ago we could not have foreseen what the technology would produce in such a short time.
if interested, contact me at bill@lockharts.comthis entry was posted in equipment/reviews, thoughts along the way.
and, i will have it professionally cleaned before shipment.
when one travels and when one enters into the real world of nature photography, the affects of weather on equipment is paramount.
i can buy one for about $2,700, which is substantially less than the d3x and the 1ds iii.
the real  question to answer is, “what is the return on my investment?”.
particularly so if one travels as much as i do.
so, other than price, which is substantial, what do each offer that fit within my requirements?
the second is build quality and durability.
it has one great advantage over the nikon d3x, and that is sensor cleaning.
wow, it may offer those of us who do both landscapes and wildlife  photography a great resource.
if he really means it, he should dump all his canon equipment, not even consider nikon, and immediately run out and buy a couple of mamiya rz67 pro iid bodies, a bunch of lenses, 2 leaf backs, and a bunch of car batteries.
if i am at punda maria in south africa and the temperature is hovering around 130 degrees f in the shade, what camera do i want there?
your email address will not be published.
and yes, more megapixels produce  better resolution.
the 5d mark ii offers the photographer a 21.1 megapixel camera with a  full-frame sensor and something entirely new, hd movies!
the real question to answer is, “what is the return on my investment?”.
what a revolution that will offer the photographer if it does mature.
that is interesting, it is in fact a major  consideration.
the d3x does not offer sensor cleaning.
the big issue for me is all the canon glass i own.
but, i suspect that there are lots of photographers like myself out in the real world who are going through the same process that i am, that are looking at real choices that are available now.
most consumer grade cameras won’t get close to that number.
with outstanding image quality, it is difficult to pass up, particularly if the price for it drops in the next six months, and likely it will when its replacement is announced.
maybe even one that offers two shooting modes.
i want a camera that will withstand what i will put it  through.
full frame and partial frame at higher  speeds.
it has a scratch on the selection wheel, but other than that it is in perfect condition.
and, perhaps you are right, canon will likely announce its replacement for the 1ds mark iii within the next three months.
but, it will cost one heck of a lot more than the 1ds mark iii  which is available today.
besides the cost will come down substantially in the next six months.
canon says it has improved the weather sealing.
i just stumbled upon your blog and wanted to say that i have really enjoyed browsing your blog posts.
both the mk iii and the d3x are good top of the line pro  cameras.
for me, the considerations involve whether upgrading will improve the overall quality of what i do.
and yes, a good camera will produce better images, even though the key ingredient is always the photographer and the photographer’s skills.
second, just getting to the spot that one is about to shoot in involves airplanes, safari vehicles, trekking across long distances, dust, and sometimes moving by boat in both fresh and salt water.
in other words, it is two cameras in one.
so, i think perhaps i will buy the canon 1ds mark iii.
the 5d mark ii offers the photographer a 21.1 megapixel camera with a full-frame sensor and something entirely new, hd movies!
you would love the image quality but the 3.9 mps may not be enough for wildlife shots.
1ds mkiii against the d3x….d3x is 12 months late (imo) and therefore still overpriced compared to the 1ds mkiii, but perhaps we should wait for real world examples?
but, heavy means the camera can take better photos at lower shutter speeds.
http://www.dxomark.com/index.php/eng/image-quality-database/compare-cameras/(appareil1)/192|0/(appareil2)/287|0/(appareil3)/279|0/(onglet)/0/(brand)/canon/(brand2)/nikon/(brand3)/canonreply phil, glad to hear that you like the canon 5d mark ii, given your background that is an impressive statement.
as to the 5d mark ii, we are reading some bad experiences with new owners.
course any new camera will have production issues.
very high resolution and reduced resolution for images per second.
replacing my canon lenses with nikon lenses will push the price tag close to $20,000!
at first blush, the nikon d3x sounds like the answer, giving the photographer the option of shooting full-frame or a reduced sized shot at higher speeds.
i can buy one for about $2,700, which is substantially  less than the d3x and the 1ds iii.
because canon will respond to the nikon d3x challenge with a mega mega megapixel camera.
so, i am considering three cameras for a possible purchase within the next  six months.
but, the real consideration  here is the price.
at this level, lens diffraction will be a major issue, especially for nature photography where one wants greater depth of field.
required fields are marked * name * email * * copy this password: * type or paste password here: comment
but, it will cost one heck of a lot more than the 1ds mark iii which is available today.
like the nikon, it is a professional grade camera.
i want something that works when the light is there before me.
which is superior is splitting hairs and, if you have one, the  question of buying the other should be answered by your accountant.
reply paul harris says: january 21, 2010 at 11:41 am what nonsense!
bookmark thepermalink.
course, i remember buying the 1ds for that four years ago, so perhaps it is not out of line.
but, i ask, is it a professional grade  camera?
for the serious photographer, there comes a time when consideration of a  new camera is on the mind.
i want a camera that will work when i need it to work.
the question is, which offers me an opportunity for better  quality given my style of shooting and the types of images i like to  capture?
canon has to make a pro replacement for the 1ds mark iii soon because the 5d mk ii has a better processor, same megapixels, etc.
he says that heavy is better.
in other words,  it’s better than its sibling, but not yet a professional grade camera.
i want a camera that will work when i need it  to work.
or if i am in the shetland islands and snow and sleet are hitting me with temperatures well below freezing, what camera do i want in my bag?
and it can do neat stuff, like move into  another mode and capture shots at less megapixels but with astonishing  speed.
of course if you are a nature tog and fond of fast af….don’t buy the 5d mkii!
see: http://www.bill.lockharts.com/index.php/tag/canon-1ds-ii
if  you buy the d3x because you think it is superior to the mk iii, are you going  to sell it when the mk iv comes out, then sell the mk iv when the d4x (or d3y)  is available, ad nauseam?
best regards, billreply after sending my canon 20d back to canon 5 times; getting a brand new canon 1ds mkii with a bad sensor; and sending my canon 1ds mkiii back to canon for underexposing 2 full stops, i was ready to sell all my canon lenses and move back to nikon.
course, the major consideration for me is that i own lots of canon l  glass.
for those of us who do nature stuff, well, we have to hang our hats on what manufacturers offer to full-time photographers.
reply hi omar, when one reaches 21mp
particularly so if one travels as much as i  do.
i can buy a 1ds mark iii for about $1,500 less than the d3x.
a nice versitile  camera.
at 21.1 megapixels it is a tad shy of the nikon d3x offering, but it has been around for a good while and the images it produces are equal, in my opinon, to the new nikon offering.
i want something  that works when the light is there before me.
professional cameras generally are built to withstand about 250,000 shutter releases, versus consumer cameras that might manage 100,000.
but, heavy means the camera can take  better photos at lower shutter speeds.
second, just getting to the spot that one is about  to shoot in involves airplanes, safari vehicles, trekking across long  distances, dust, and sometimes moving by boat in both fresh and salt  water.
it is always best to wait for a few months prior to purchase.
so, maybe nikon isn’t too far off in the price.
why would i be concerned about weather sealing and durability?
that capability would simply change everything we do with a camera and offer up a new world of light.
all full frame cameras with no multipliers.
maybe even one  that offers two shooting modes.
some speculate that the whole 1d series will be combined into one camera that would offer something similar to the d3x.
but, i ask, is it a professional grade camera?
but, one thing is for sure, i don’t envision that anytime soon i would have the funds to jump into the medium format arena.
but, think a moment, i can buy two of the 5d mark iis for what i would pay  for either alternative!
the only beneficiary of that merry-go-round are  camera dealers and used camera buyers.
after all, i have spent probably as much as the camera is worth just getting to where i am about to shoot.
i just stumbled upon your blog and wanted to say that i  have really enjoyed browsing your blog posts.
this is why i am considering the 1ds mark iii.
based upon thom hogan’s (www.bythom.com) recent review of the nikon d3x, and many other reviews of the nikon, i have reconsidered this decision.
best regards, billreply i wonder much the sensor score would affect nature photography?
if interested, contact me at bill@lockharts.com this entry was posted in equipment/reviews, thoughts along the way.
but, canon does not rate it as a professional grade camera.
if i did, a hassy would already be in my camera bag.
but, think a moment, i can buy two of the 5d mark iis for what i would pay for either alternative!
nikon d3x is a clear  winner .
only the best glass can be used with these cameras.
yes, a canon  xti will produce great images, i have some to prove it, but it won’t last  very long with the kind of travel photography that i do.
best regards, billreply bill, i think the camera you want hasn’t been sold yet.
so, a weather sealed camera with top notch construction is a major consideration.
what you see is what you get.
the 1ds mark iii originally hit the market at around that amount as well.
two other factors are important to me.
not all bad, but some issues are there.
so, let’s consider three cameras.
see:  http://www.bill.lockharts.com/index.php/tag/canon-1ds-ii
if i am at punda maria in south  africa and the temperature is hovering around 130 degrees f in the shade, what  camera do i want there?
its the best the pros can get.
and is relatively cheap.
he  says that heavy is better.
but, my gosh, $8,000!
when one travels and when one enters into the real  world of nature photography, the affects of weather on equipment is  paramount.
for example: the canon 300 mm f/4 l is, see:   http://www.bill.lockharts.com/index.php/tag/canon-300mm-f4l-is the canon 100-400mm f/4.5.-5.6l, see:   http://www.bill.lockharts.com/index.php/tag/canon-100-400mm-f45-56l and the fabulous 200mm f/2.8l, see:   http://www.bill.lockharts.com/index.php/tag/canon-200mm-f28l btw, i have a 1ds mark ii with about 12,000 shutter releases for sale.
nikon’s announcement of this camera is receiving lots of interest by serious photographers.
what i have now produces good images when i take the time to think about what i am doing.
perhaps iq will be so mind blowing we have to have one….or perhaps buy a couple of alpha a900′s and resize your images so iq becomes irrelevant?
bill makes a telling statement but doesn’t follow through on it.
if you buy the d3x because you think it is superior to the mk iii, are you going to sell it when the mk iv comes out, then sell the mk iv when the d4x (or d3y) is available, ad nauseam?
thanks for the link!
so, other than price, which is substantial,  what do each offer that  fit within my requirements?
as these high-end cameras become more complex, and quality-control becomes more and more of an issue, professionals will need to demand more from nikon and canon, and stop tolerating poor workmanship and performance.
the nikon d3x, the canon 1ds mark iii, and the canon 5d mark ii.
nikon’s announcement of this camera is receiving lots of interest by  serious photographers.
i am a landscape photographer
it just  isn’t built well enough.
so, cost is not always a valid consideration.
the first is weather sealing.
but, i thought it might be good here to start a thread about such choices to see if others are considering the same cameras that i am.
but, in terms of image quality, in my opinion, it is as good as the nikon.
well, first, it tops the megapixel race.
i want realibility.
after all, i have spent probably as much as the camera is  worth just getting to where i am about to shoot.
heavy is something i detest, but heavy means solid and heavy means better  photographs.
and it can do neat stuff, like move into another mode and capture shots at less megapixels but with astonishing speed.
it  has a scratch on the selection wheel, but other than that it is in perfect  condition.
i hate having to spend hours and hours  getting rid of dust spots on my images.
one can only tell when we compare the detailed shots taken by nikon d3x and canon 5dm2.
problem is, the movies i have seen are terrible, with jerky motion.
that is, if i replace what i have for the nikon choices.
if i was you i would wait a bit and keep your ear to the ground.
but, in terms of image quality, in my opinion, it is as  good as the nikon.
it produces fantastic images.
i hate having to spend hours and hours getting rid of dust spots on my images.
the first is  weather sealing.
i hate to even think about it, i yearn for a light-weight camera that produces great images.
so that is an option well beyond my means.
and i hope you write again soon!
it has one great advantage over the nikon  d3x, and that is sensor cleaning.
why?  well, first, it tops the megapixel  race.
i have it for sale at $3,500.
by the way, i purchased the 5d mk ii and it is a great camera.
wow, it may offer those of us who do both landscapes and wildlife photography a great resource.
i look at it this way.
very high  resolution and reduced resolution for images per second.
reply physician assistant says: august 23, 2010 at 6:36 pm
one example is “black silicon” which is 100-500 times more sensitive to light that current silicon used in sensors.
a nice versitile camera.
for me, the considerations involve whether  upgrading will improve the overall quality of what i do.
heck, one trip will buy any of these cameras, and i do about four  major trips per year.
heck, one trip will buy any of these cameras, and i do about four major trips per year.
it  produces fantastic images.
so, a weather sealed camera with top notch construction is a major  consideration.
the d3x does not offer sensor  cleaning.
but, canon  does not rate it as a professional grade camera.
it seems the d3x has its own set of problems that have been overlooked by reviewers that are afraid to honestly expose the flaws of this new camera.
most  consumer grade cameras won’t get close to that number.
professional cameras generally are built to withstand about 250,000 shutter  releases, versus consumer cameras that might manage 100,000.
what  you see is what you get.
maybe not the all in one ideal.
but, the real consideration here is the price.
i want a camera that will withstand what i will put it through.
in any case i’ll be subscribing to your feed and i hope you write again soon!reply what nonsense!
i can’t up the frames per second by choosing a  different format.
reply january 21, 2010 at 12:15 pm hi paul, i have written lots of nonsense in my time, this isn’t the first or  the last time that i will.
i can buy a 1ds mark iii for about $1,500  less than the d3x.
heavy is something i detest, but heavy means solid and heavy means better photographs.
and frankly, i have no desire to lug such equipment around.
the equipment must stand up to extreme temperatures, rain, snow, sleet, and heat.
no it does not offer different shooting  modes.
it just isn’t built well enough.
nikon d3x is a clear winner .
besides the cost will come down  substantially in the next six months.
because canon will respond to  the nikon d3x challenge with a mega mega megapixel camera.
at 24mp there is nothing out there, other than the sony alpha, that  offers this much resolution.
even if the camera is what canon says it is, i am still concerned about whether it will withstand the rigors i know i will put it through.
like the nikon, it is a professional grade  camera.
one can only tell when we compare the  detailed shots taken by nikon d3x and canon 5dm2.
the nikon d3x, the canon 1ds  mark iii, and the canon 5d mark ii.