there are quite a few significant changes to the 5d mark iii's firmware, as well.
this can be approximately doubled by shooting with two packs, using the bg-e11 battery grip.
as well as the previously-mentioned microphone and headphone jacks, the 5d mark iii also offers up a pc sync terminal, combined standard-def av output / usb 2.0 high speed port, wired remote control port, and high-def hdmi video output.
remote camera triggering is possible from a flash strobe.
the shutter mechanism is rated as good for 150,000 shots, unchanged from  the 5d mark ii.
the 5d mark iii's power switch juts out from beneath this dial, as it does from the canon 7d as well.
the mark iii's 61-point autofocus sensor is also borrowed from the eos 1d x.
the nikon d4, by comparison, does quite a bit better, with a similar, if smaller, rendition of the mosaic tile, and a better version of the red leaf swatch.
pricing is set at around us$3,500 body-only, or us$4,300 in a kit  with an ef 24-105mm f/4l is usm lens.
the top layer is sensitive to red and green, while the bottom layer detects blue and green.
it's still a decent performance from the a77, but the 5d mark iii clearly has an advantage.
for example, you could save full-res raws on one card, and reduced-res  mraws on the other.
canon expects to ship the 5d mark iii in the us market from the end of march 2012.
as in the eos 7d, there's an  on-demand grid function, and you can also display the locations of the 61  focusing points.
on the top deck, you can now assign the multi-function button to instantly switch between raw and jpeg shooting with a single press.
that's 1.7 ounces (50g)  heavier than the 5d mark ii.
canon 5d mark iii versus nikon d4 at iso 1,600 canon 5d mark iii at iso 1,600 nikon d4 at iso 1,600 nikon's 16.2-megapixel d4 took a different approach to full-frame,  preferring low res for better low-light performance and higher frame rate in  their pro press camera, and it clearly pays off here.
the eos 5d mark iii's video functionality is similar to that of the 1d x,  but with an important addition: a headphone jack for audio monitoring, useful  given the ability to adjust audio levels during recording.
on the top deck, you can now assign the multi-function button to instantly  switch between raw and jpeg shooting with a single press.
four different processing effects are  available.
the 5d mark ii's images  look downright hazy by comparison.
canon's digic 5+ processor first appeared in the 1d x. although the 5d mark  iii uses only a single processor, canon says it's 17 times more powerful than  the mark ii's digic 4 chip.
canon's 5d mark iii indeed looks quite improved over the 5d mark ii, despite the slightly smaller pixel pitch.
there's more contrast and sharper detail.
the mode dial has a central locking button, as seen on the 60d. (this was  also available as an option on the 7d and 5d mark ii, but here it's the  default.)
buy the canon eos 5d mark iii from adorama!
the quick control dial turns with its normal coarse click  stops, but in movie mode it also responds to touch for making silent  adjustments whose noise won't appear in the audio track.
canon 5d mark iii demonstration videos we shot some videos to illustrate the canon 5d mark iii's various new  features, as well as a video of how the canon 600ex rt's radio flash works with  the 5d mark iii.
two minor elements are moved on the front of the canon 5d mark iii: the infrared port is now on the grip (where you'll find it on most every other canon digital slr with the feature), and the depth-of-field preview button has moved to the grip-side of the body.
there's also a dual-axis level display, similar to that of the eos 7d. in playback mode, you can now process raw images in-camera, and take  advantage of the lens correction functions when doing so.
the 5d mark iii also adopts canon's q button, just to the right of the lcd, for quick-control functions.
even if they were playing a bit of catch-up, it seems we can say they've caught up quite well.
today's iso 3,200 is yesterday's iso 1,600 (well, almost), so below are the same crops at iso 3,200.
the 5d mark iii uses a new bg-e11 battery grip, which includes a duplicate  multi-controller for portrait shooting.
the size and shape of the canon 5d mark iii is similar to the mark ii, only a little heavier.
other additions include a digic 5+ processor, which is said to be 17 times  more powerful than the digic 4 processor in the 5d ii.
the remaining points are horizontal line-types,  sensitive to f/5.6.
this refers to a built-in database that allows automatic correction of both spherical and chromatic aberration, astigmatism, curvature of field, diffraction, and low-pass filter effects.
here again it's a mixed bag, with the 5d mark iii showing more crisp detail  with higher contrast, but the d3x showing an overall more even appearance  regardless of the nature of the element.
the 5d mark iii's 63-zone dual-layer ifcl metering sensor was first seen in the eos 7d.
the full auto mode has been upgraded, and canon says it will now do a better job of recognizing the appropriate scene type.
the mosaic crop is noticeably sharper, and the pink swatch has excellent detail, and the red leaf swatch is pretty respectable.
like its predecessor, the 5d mark iii has a canon ef lens mount, and doesn't accept sub-frame ef-s lenses.
the top layer is sensitive to red and green, while the bottom layer  detects blue and green.
finally, the new speedlite 600ex-rt costs us$630 or thereabouts, and the  new st-e3-rt transmitter is priced at approximately us$470.
as well as supporting new features of the camera, it adds a digital lens optimizer function for still images.
of all the additional features, probably the most important is the new autofocus system, brought over from the 1d x, which in addition to having more points (61) and more cross-type points (41), covers considerably more of the canon 5d iii's image area, while the af system of the past two models were brought over from the company's aps-c cameras, thus covering much less image area in the viewfinder.
compression choices are all-i intraframe or ipb interframe, with embedded free-run or rec-run timecode.
first, chuck westfall demonstrates the canon 5d mark iii's various  autofocus patterns: then he runs through the standard and silent shutter modes: next chuck shows us the hdr menu: chuck demonstrates the new comparison feature in playback mode: finally, chuck goes over the options available with the canon  600ex rt radio flash: a new version of canon's digital photo professional software ships with the  5d mark iii.
it also shapes up well against nikon's 24-megapixel d3x, an impressive feat.
it's still a decent performance  from the a77, but the 5d mark iii clearly has an advantage.
the 5d mark iii's 22.3 megapixel, full-frame cmos image sensor has a pixel pitch of 6.25 microns.
of all the additional features,  probably the most important is the new autofocus system, brought over from the  1d x, which in addition to having more points (61) and more cross-type points  (41), covers considerably more of the canon 5d iii's image area, while the af  system of the past two models were brought over from the company's aps-c  cameras, thus covering much less image area in the viewfinder.
right of the lcd the controls are nearly all 7d, except for the new, more logical position of the quick menu button, just upper left of the quick control dial.
there's a new wft-e7a wireless file transmitter that also supports the eos  7d and 60d, and includes 802.11a/b/g/n wi-fi and gigabit ethernet.
the thumbgrip on the right is a little better than on the 5d mark ii, with  a more comfortable taper down the length of the back, rather than a simple arc
as well as supporting new features of the camera, it adds a  digital lens optimizer function for still images.
remote camera triggering is possible from a  flash strobe.
the thumbgrip on the right is a little better than on the 5d mark ii, with a more comfortable taper down the length of the back, rather than a simple arc that didn't match the contours of the thumb.
18 to 22 megapixels isn't that large a difference, but it's clear that the 5d mark iii is able to resolve a little more detail.
the canon 5d mark iii's image is quite smooth,  though, offering very similar levels of detail.
finally, the new speedlite 600ex-rt costs us$630 or thereabouts, and the new st-e3-rt transmitter is priced at approximately us$470.
the 5d mark iii has slightly improved contrast and certainly more resolution.
all  three accessories ship from april 2012.
an external gp-e2 gps receiver connects to the camera via usb, and mounts on the hotshoe or off-camera.
noise and noise suppression continue to mar the sony a77's images at iso 3,200, with a slight loss of color as well.
that didn't match the contours of the thumb.
right of the lcd the controls are nearly all 7d, except for the new, more  logical position of the quick menu button, just upper left of the quick control  dial.
two reduced-resolution raw modes are also available, providing 10.5 or 5.5 megapixel resolution.
also new since the 5d mark ii is canon's ai servo iii, which is quicker to start tracking your subject, and should handle momentary obstructions between camera and subject more gracefully.
canon specs  the body weight at 30.3 ounces (860g) body only.
your eyes can see clearly the benefit of the 5d mark iii over the mark ii, particularly in the mosaic image.
like the 1d x, there's a 3.2-inch clear view ii lcd panel with a high  resolution of approximately 1,040,000 dots.
a 4-digit wireless radio id can be assigned to separate radio networks.
15 radio channels are available (plus auto), and up to 15 speedlite flashes can be used on a channel, in as many as five groups, with each group separately able to be set to e-ttl or controlled manually.
all cameras in this  comparison were shot with our very sharp reference lenses.
the full  auto mode has been upgraded, and canon says it will now do a better job of  recognizing the appropriate scene type.
the self-timer lamp moves up to its usual  position, and the monaural microphone moves from below to above the eos 5d logo.
the bg-e11 grip is priced at around us$490, and the wft-e7a wireless file  transmitter at about us$850.
as well as the previously-mentioned microphone and headphone jacks, the 5d  mark iii also offers up a pc sync terminal, combined standard-def av output /  usb 2.0 high speed port, wired remote control port, and high-def hdmi video  output.
rather than silkscreen the logo next to the button, canon's eliminated the doubt and put the logo right on these buttons.
as well as evaluative, partial, and center-weighted, there's also a tighter 1.5% spot metering mode.
you can also opt to have the source images saved along with the hdr shot, so if you're not satisfied with the result achieved in-camera, you can reprocess the hdr on your computer.
alongside the 5d mark iii, canon has launched a new flagship flash strobe.
dual card slots mean that the 5d mark iii can now record to either udma 7  compactflash or secure digital cards, including sdhc and sdxc.
for video mode, the  upper limit is capped at iso 25,600 equivalent.
battery life is rated to cipa testing standards at 950 shots with the  viewfinder, or 200 shots in live view mode, at 73°f / 23°c.
(you can also adjust  iso sensitivity, shutter speed, and aperture as the video is captured.)
although resolution is almost unchanged, it now features  eight-channel readout, gapless microlenses, and boasts improvements in  transistor structure and on-chip noise reduction that should yield improved  image quality, even for raw shooters.
as well as recording latitude, longitude, altitude, and utc time in the exif header of images, it has a compass function, and can capture gps track logs.
as well as recording latitude, longitude,  altitude, and utc time in the exif header of images, it has a compass function,  and can capture gps track logs.
of course, there's still a monochrome status display on the top deck, as well.
the 5d mark iii's viewfinder now has 100% coverage and a 22mm eyepoint, both slightly upgraded from the previous model.
as in the eos 7d, there's an on-demand grid function, and you can also display the locations of the 61 focusing points.
support this site: buy the canon eos 5d mark iii from adorama!support this site:
other additions include a digic 5+ processor, which is said to be 17 times more powerful than the digic 4 processor in the 5d ii.
these images are best quality jpegs straight out of the camera, at default settings including noise reduction.
recent advances in sensor technology have made iso 1,600 look a lot more like iso 100, but there are still cameras whose quality starts to fall apart at this setting.
a new rate button to the left of the lcd provides instant access to image  rating functionality, letting you assign anywhere from one to five stars for  each image.
dimensions are 6.0 x 4.6 x 3.0 inches (152.0 x 116.4 x 76.4mm).
the eos 5d mark iii's video functionality is similar to that of the 1d x, but with an important addition: a headphone jack for audio monitoring, useful given the ability to adjust audio levels during recording.
sensitivity ordinarily ranges from iso 100 to 25,600 equivalents, and can be expanded to encompass iso 50 to 102,400 equivalents.
the 5d mark iii's  power switch juts out from beneath this dial, as it does from the canon 7d as  well.
although the target market is clearly experienced photographers, the 5d  mark iii caters to the occasional time when you want to lend your camera to a  less-experienced photographer, perhaps to get in the shot yourself.
the lcd itself is a 3:2 aspect ratio design that's just as gorgeous as  recent models have been, with a 1.04-million dot array.
canon 5d mark iii versus canon 5d mark ii iso 100 canon 5d mark iii at iso 100 canon 5d mark ii at iso 100 the 5d mark iii has slightly improved contrast and certainly more  resolution.
battery life is rated to cipa testing standards at 950 shots with the viewfinder, or 200 shots in live view mode, at 73°f / 23°c.
today's iso 3,200 is yesterday's iso 1,600 (well, almost), so below are the  same crops at iso 3,200.
canon 5d mark iii versus sony a77 at iso 100 canon  5d mark iii at iso 100 sony a77 at iso 100 the 5d mark iii does well against sony's 24-megapixel a77, though we found  the a77 to be a little less sharp than the nex-7.
the 5d mark iii renders the pink swatch a little more magenta than it should.
the 5d mark iii renders the pink swatch a  little more magenta than it should.
the 7d's 63-zone  dual-layer metering system reappears in the canon 5d mark iii, instead of the  1d x's 100,000-pixel rgb sensor.
canon 5d mark iii versus canon 5d mark ii iso 3,200 canon 5d mark iii at iso 3,200 canon 5d mark ii at iso 3,200
although resolution is almost unchanged, it now features eight-channel readout, gapless microlenses, and boasts improvements in transistor structure and on-chip noise reduction that should yield improved image quality, even for raw shooters.
as in that camera, there are 41 cross-type points, of which 20 work to f/4.0, and 21 are f/5.6 capable.
so you get sharper, blur-free shots with all the ambiance intact, without using the flash.
a new rate button to the left of the lcd provides instant access to image rating functionality, letting you assign anywhere from one to five stars for each image.
the control cluster on the back of the canon 5d mark iii resembles the 7d  more than the 5d mark ii.
also, because the 5d  mark iii is a beta unit, keep in mind image quality may not be representative  of final production models.
these images are best quality jpegs straight out of  the camera, at default settings including noise reduction.
a 'silent' shooting mode reduces operation noise, but reduces  burst-shooting speed to three frames per second.
though we normally start with iso 1,600 here, we thought we'd start with the base iso to show the best each camera can do.
for video mode, the upper limit is capped at iso 25,600 equivalent.
the movie record/live view control includes a switch to select between  modes, and a button to either start and stop movie recording or to start and  stop live view mode.
canon 5d mark iii versus nikon d4 at iso 3,200 canon 5d mark iii at iso 3,200 nikon d4 at iso 3,200 the nikon d4, by comparison, does quite a bit better, with a similar, if  smaller, rendition of the mosaic tile, and a better version of the red leaf  swatch.
though we  normally start with iso 1,600 here, we thought we'd start with the base iso to  show the best each camera can do.
like its predecessor, the 5d mark iii has a canon ef lens mount, and  doesn't accept sub-frame ef-s lenses.
canon 5d mark iii versus canon 7d at iso 100 canon  5d mark iii at iso 100 canon 7d at iso 100 18 to 22 megapixels isn't that large a difference, but it's clear that the  5d mark iii is able to resolve a little more detail.
interestingly--and unsurprisingly--the d4 does a little better with the red leaf swatch at iso 100, but misses the texture of the pink swatch beneath.
the superior resolution of the sony a77 is lost a bit to noise suppression  in the smaller sensor, particularly noticeable in the shadows and the dark  mosaic background.
(you can also adjust iso sensitivity, shutter speed, and aperture as the video is captured.)
there's also a dual-axis level display, similar to that of the eos 7d. in playback mode, you can now process raw images in-camera, and take advantage of the lens correction functions when doing so.
you can also opt to have the source images saved along with the hdr  shot, so if you're not satisfied with the result achieved in-camera, you can  reprocess the hdr on your computer.
for the first time in an eos model other than the 1-series, the 5d mark  iii can now capture 2, 3, 5, or 7 shots in a bracketed sequence.
canon expects to ship the 5d mark iii in the us market from the end of  march 2012.
the mode dial has a central locking button, as seen on the 60d. (this was also available as an option on the 7d and 5d mark ii, but here it's the default.)
canon 5d mark iii versus canon 7d at iso 3,200 canon 5d mark iii at iso 3,200 canon 7d at iso 3,200 as if to underscore the advantage of full frame and canon's recent  advancement, the canon 7d's iso 3,200 images are even fuzzier, seen as if  through frosted glass by comparison.
a 'silent' shooting mode reduces operation noise, but reduces burst-shooting speed to three frames per second.
the shutter mechanism is rated as good for 150,000 shots, unchanged from the 5d mark ii.
just like the 1d x, you can combine up to nine frames into a single exposure in-camera.
recent advances in sensor technology have made iso  1,600 look a lot more like iso 100, but there are still cameras whose quality  starts to fall apart at this setting.
four different processing effects are available.
also from the 7d is the multi-function button behind the shutter button.
the 5d mark iii's 22.3 megapixel, full-frame cmos image sensor has a pixel  pitch of 6.25 microns.
there's also a new st-e3-rt transmitter, similar to the existing st-e2, but with support for the new two-way radio system.
canon 5d mark iii versus nikon d3x at iso 100 canon  5d mark iii at iso 100 nikon d3x at iso 100 nikon's 24 megapixel d3x turns the previous assessment on its head a bit,  as the d3x probably picks up a bit more detail than the 5d mark iii.
the  canon 5d mark iii raises the game in terms of overall camera performance, from  frame rate to autofocus, while increasing the resolution only slightly (by just  over a million pixels to 22.3-megapixels).
megapixels  canon ef 3.2 inch lcd that's  theaverage, click to find the best price!
canon 5d mark iii versus canon 5d mark ii iso 1,600 canon 5d mark iii at iso 1,600 canon 5d mark ii at iso 1,600 your eyes can see clearly the benefit of the 5d mark iii over the mark ii,  particularly in the mosaic image.
of the latter, five will work as high-precision points to f/2.8.
while the 5d mark iii has slightly better detail in higher contrast subjects, the d4 renders the troublesome red swatch as if it were no problem at all.
otherwise,  it's not a huge change at iso 100 from the 5d mark ii.
interestingly, as well as using the secondary card as an overflow or duplicate, or to segregate by file type, you can also record different raw or jpeg types to each card.
below are crops comparing a beta-level canon 5d mark iii to the canon 5d mark ii, canon 7d, nikon d4, nikon d3x, and sony a77.
five buttons left of the lcd are  creative style, a new rate button, a zoom button, and finally the playback and  delete buttons.
the system is the result of two technologies: a high-sensitivity imaging sensor that's able to capture more light and canon's digic image processor, which actively reduces noise with high-speed image processing, delivering maximum detail in highlight and shadow areas.
the 5d mark iii takes the same lp-e6 battery pack as the 5d mark ii,  letting you save a little money if you're planning on upgrading from the older  model, but have a stack of batteries on hand.
the canon 5d mark iii raises the game in terms of overall camera performance, from frame rate to autofocus, while increasing the resolution only slightly (by just over a million pixels to 22.3-megapixels).
the 7d's 63-zone dual-layer metering system reappears in the canon 5d mark iii, instead of the 1d x's 100,000-pixel rgb sensor.
lower left of the lcd are three holes for the speaker, and a small window  for the ambient light sensor, used to automatically adjust the lcd backlight.
this will be  particularly useful to fans of hdr photography, and if you don't want to deal  with processing hdr images yourself, there's also an in-camera three-shot hdr  mode, a first for an eos model.
learn more about what the canon hs system can do for you.
the 5d mark ii's images look downright hazy by comparison.
here again it's a mixed bag, with the 5d mark iii showing more crisp detail with higher contrast, but the d3x showing an overall more even appearance regardless of the nature of the element.
dual card slots mean that the 5d mark iii can now record to either udma 7 compactflash or secure digital cards, including sdhc and sdxc.
as well as 1080p 24/25/30 fps and vga 25/30 fps, there's now a 720p 50/60 fps mode.
the speedlite 600ex-rt allows not only the line-of-sight optical wireless  functionality of existing units, but also a new two-way radio connectivity,  with 30 meters / 98.4 feet range.
the 5d mark iii retains more fabric texture in the pink swatch at this iso setting, though.
the  original 5d's 12.8-megapixel full-frame sensor produced legendary image  quality, and the 5d mark ii raised the resolution to 21.1 megapixels and added  superb video quality to the mix, creating a sensation in video production.
among the user  requests that canon has heard and answered with the 5d mark iii, there's now a  side-by-side comparative playback display (including synced magnification and a  histogram function), plus the ability to manually set the first four characters  of image file names.
we'll go over the other features in more detail below, but the canon 5d mark iii also includes a 150,000-cycle shutter rating; a new hdr mode; full hd, 1080p video at 24, 25, and 30 frames per second; a 3.2-inch, 1.04m-dot lcd; a new cmos sensor with higher sensitivity and an eight-channel readout that allows a 6-frame-per-second frame rate; a quick control dial that includes touch capability for silent adjustments while in video mode; multiple raw image sizes; 100-percent viewfinder coverage with an adjustable lcd grid and af overlay; a 1.5 percent spot meter; a dual-axis leveling system; and standard or quiet operation modes.
canon's digic 5+ processor first appeared in the 1d x. although the 5d mark iii uses only a single processor, canon says it's 17 times more powerful than the mark ii's digic 4 chip.
nikon's 16.2-megapixel d4 took a different approach to full-frame, preferring low res for better low-light performance and higher frame rate in their pro press camera, and it clearly pays off here.
the 4gb recording limit is gone, and you can save clips as long as 29 minutes, 59 seconds in all resolutions.
still, they're pretty close.
as well as evaluative, partial, and center-weighted, there's also a tighter  1.5% spot metering mode.
there's also a new st-e3-rt transmitter, similar to the existing st-e2, but  with support for the new two-way radio system.
by shawn barnett, mike tomkins, and zig weidelich posted: 03/02/2012 though canon makes many excellent digital slr cameras for pros and consumers, none has reached the superstar status of the canon 5d series.
canon 5d mark iii versus nikon d4 at iso 100 canon  5d mark iii at iso 100 nikon d4 at iso 100 nikon's new d4 has a 16-megapixel sensor designed for greater speed and  low-light performance, but it does give something away in the resolution  department, at least here at iso 100.
two minor elements are moved on the front of the canon 5d mark iii: the  infrared port is now on the grip (where you'll find it on most every other  canon digital slr with the feature), and the depth-of-field preview button has  moved to the grip-side of the body.
the eos 5d mark iii's body includes weather-sealing to a level said to be better than that of the 5d mark ii, but not to the same degree as an eos 1-series body like the eos-1d x.
the 5d mark iii uses a new bg-e11 battery grip, which includes a duplicate multi-controller for portrait shooting.
the size and shape of the canon 5d mark iii is similar to the mark ii, only  a little heavier.
nikon's new d4 has a 16-megapixel sensor designed for greater speed and low-light performance, but it does give something away in the resolution department, at least here at iso 100.
canon 5d mark iii versus sony a77 at iso 1,600 canon 5d mark iii at iso 1,600 sony a77 at iso 1,600
the 5d mark iii takes the same lp-e6 battery pack as the 5d mark ii, letting you save a little money if you're planning on upgrading from the older model, but have a stack of batteries on hand.
the canon retains more of the vibrant color in the red swatch, and its  rendering of the pink swatch has more detail and gets the color closer to  correct, while the a77 makes it look more purple.
the 4gb recording limit is gone, and you can save clips as long as 29  minutes, 59 seconds in all resolutions.
an external gp-e2 gps receiver connects to the camera via usb, and mounts  on the hotshoe or off-camera.
the quick control dial turns with its normal coarse click stops, but in movie mode it also responds to touch for making silent adjustments whose noise won't appear in the audio track.
only height and thickness have increased a millimeter or so.
the 5d mark iii retains more fabric  texture in the pink swatch at this iso setting, though.
there's a new wft-e7a wireless file transmitter that also supports the eos 7d and 60d, and includes 802.11a/b/g/n wi-fi and gigabit ethernet.
first, chuck westfall demonstrates the canon 5d mark iii's various autofocus patterns: then he runs through the standard and silent shutter modes: next chuck shows us the hdr menu: chuck demonstrates the new comparison feature in playback mode: finally, chuck goes over the options available with the canon 600ex rt radio flash: a new version of canon's digital photo professional software ships with the 5d mark iii.
the 600ex-rt has a guide number of 60 meters / 197 feet at maximum zoom,  and has a zoom range of 20 to 200mm.
the self-timer lamp moves up to its usual position, and the monaural microphone moves from below to above the eos 5d logo.
we also choose 1,600 because we like to be able to shoot at least at this level when indoors and at night.
these will be  available alongside the camera itself in march.
here's a clear demonstration of the improvements both to the sensor and the  noise suppression technology found in the 5d mark iii.
the bg-e11 grip is priced at around us$490, and the wft-e7a wireless file transmitter at about us$850.
the 5d mark iii also adopts canon's q button, just to the right of  the lcd, for quick-control functions.
of course, there's still a monochrome status display on the top deck, as  well.
while the 5d mark iii has  slightly better detail in higher contrast subjects, the d4 renders the  troublesome red swatch as if it were no problem at all.
this full-color metering allows better subject  detection, information which is also fed back to the autofocus system to  further aid subject tracking.
a 4-digit  wireless radio id can be assigned to separate radio networks.
it also has a more rugged shoe mount, and  ships with a gel filter holder and tungsten / fluorescent filters.
canon 5d mark iii versus sony a77 at iso 3,200 canon 5d mark iii at iso 3,200 sony a77 at iso 3,200 noise and noise suppression continue to mar the sony a77's images at iso  3,200, with a slight loss of color as well.
that's 1.7 ounces (50g) heavier than the 5d mark ii.
the greater performance is also used to add real-time chromatic aberration correction for both still and movie shooting.
canon eos 5d mark iii hands-on preview by shawn barnett, mike tomkins, and zig weidelich posted: 03/02/2012 though canon makes many excellent digital slr cameras for pros and  consumers, none has reached the superstar status of the canon 5d series.
sensitivity ordinarily ranges from iso 100 to 25,600 equivalents, and can  be expanded to encompass iso 50 to 102,400 equivalents.
there are quite a few significant changes to the 5d mark iii's firmware, as  well.
as well as enabling faster 6 fps burst shooting, there's also more power  for noise reduction, and canon is predicting a two-stop improvement for jpeg  shooting.
pricing is set at around us$3,500 body-only, or us$4,300 in a kit with an ef 24-105mm f/4l is usm lens.
detail: canon 5d mark iii versus canon 5d mark ii, canon 7d, nikon d4,  nikon d3x,  and sony a77 canon
the  exception is the red leaf swatch, which while somewhat cartoonish in the 5d  mark ii's rendering, is softer from the 5d mark iii.
of the latter, five will work as  high-precision points to f/2.8.
the greater performance is also used to add real-time chromatic  aberration correction for both still and movie shooting.
the 5d mark iii's viewfinder now has 100% coverage and a 22mm eyepoint,  both slightly upgraded from the previous model.
interestingly,  as well as using the secondary card as an overflow or duplicate, or to  segregate by file type, you can also record different raw or jpeg types to each  card.
the speedlite 600ex-rt allows not only the line-of-sight optical wireless functionality of existing units, but also a new two-way radio connectivity, with 30 meters / 98.4 feet range.
rather than silkscreen the logo next to the button, canon's  eliminated the doubt and put the logo right on these buttons.
here's a clear demonstration of the improvements both to the sensor and the noise suppression technology found in the 5d mark iii.
like the 1d x, there's a 3.2-inch clear view ii lcd panel with a high resolution of approximately 1,040,000 dots.
the eos 5d mark iii's body includes weather-sealing to a level said to be  better than that of the 5d mark ii, but not to the same degree as an eos  1-series body like the eos-1d x.
hs system promotion sponsored by canon.
the original 5d's 12.8-megapixel full-frame sensor produced legendary image quality, and the 5d mark ii raised the resolution to 21.1 megapixels and added superb video quality to the mix, creating a sensation in video production.
we shot some videos to illustrate the canon 5d mark iii's various new features, as well as a video of how the canon 600ex rt's radio flash works with the 5d mark iii.
canon 5d mark iii versus canon 7d at iso 1,600 canon 5d mark iii at iso 1,600 canon 7d at iso 1,600 the advantage to a full frame sensor over an aps-c-sized sensor is quite  clear without my calling out why in these shots.
canon says that video moire has been greatly reduced since the 5d mark ii.
the canon 5d mark iii's image is quite smooth, though, offering very similar levels of detail.
canon has remapped the status lcd.
thanks to its full-frame sensor, there's no focal length crop.
canon 5d mark iii (beta) image quality below are crops comparing a beta-level canon 5d mark iii to the canon  5d mark ii, canon 7d, nikon d4, nikon d3x, and sony a77.
the movie record/live view control includes a switch to select between modes, and a button to either start and stop movie recording or to start and stop live view mode.
canon 5d mark iii versus nikon d3x at iso 3,200 canon 5d mark iii at iso 3,200 nikon d3x at iso 3,200 images from the d3x are quite a bit grainier, but again the image is very  even across disparate elements.
all three accessories ship from april 2012.
the 5d mark iii's 63-zone dual-layer ifcl metering sensor was first seen in  the eos 7d.
the gp-e2 gps receiver costs around us$390.
the 5d mark iii's image is crisp compared to the grainy and soft 7d at iso 1,600.
the 5d mark iii also offers up a multiple exposure function.
the 5d mark iii does well against sony's 24-megapixel a77, though we found the a77 to be a little less sharp than the nex-7.
the advantage to a full frame sensor over an aps-c-sized sensor is quite clear without my calling out why in these shots.
this will be particularly useful to fans of hdr photography, and if you don't want to deal with processing hdr images yourself, there's also an in-camera three-shot hdr mode, a first for an eos model.
the top deck includes a mode dial with the auto+ mode, combined from the creative auto and green zone modes on the 5d mark ii.
even so, keeping with canon tradition, many buttons  have shuffled around, and new ones created.
all cameras in this comparison were shot with our very sharp reference lenses.
the control cluster on the back of the canon 5d mark iii resembles the 7d more than the 5d mark ii.
it also has a more rugged shoe mount, and ships with a gel filter holder and tungsten / fluorescent filters.
these will be available alongside the camera itself in march.
the canon hs system takes the frustration out of low-light photography.
the 5d mark iii's image is  crisp compared to the grainy and soft 7d at iso 1,600.
although the target market is clearly experienced photographers, the 5d mark iii caters to the occasional time when you want to lend your camera to a less-experienced photographer, perhaps to get in the shot yourself.
the exception is the red leaf swatch, which while somewhat cartoonish in the 5d mark ii's rendering, is softer from the 5d mark iii.
menu and info buttons are  well-placed on the upper left side of the lcd.
two reduced-resolution raw modes are also available, providing 10.5 or 5.5  megapixel resolution.
the remaining points are horizontal line-types, sensitive to f/5.6.
this full-color metering allows better subject detection, information which is also fed back to the autofocus system to further aid subject tracking.
images from the d3x are quite a bit grainier, but again the image is very even across disparate elements.
five buttons left of the lcd are creative style, a new rate button, a zoom button, and finally the playback and delete buttons.
the canon retains more of the vibrant color in the red swatch, and its rendering of the pink swatch has more detail and gets the color closer to correct, while the a77 makes it look more purple.
otherwise, it's not a huge change at iso 100 from the 5d mark ii.
menu and info buttons are well-placed on the upper left side of the lcd.
the top deck includes a mode dial with the auto+ mode, combined from  the creative auto and green zone modes on the 5d mark ii.
for example, you could save full-res raws on one card, and reduced-res mraws on the other.
we also choose 1,600 because we like to  be able to shoot at least at this level when indoors and at night.
the mark iii's 61-point autofocus sensor is also borrowed from the eos 1d  x.
nikon's 24 megapixel d3x turns the previous assessment on its head a bit, as the d3x probably picks up a bit more detail than the 5d mark iii.
the superior resolution of the sony a77 is lost a bit to noise suppression in the smaller sensor, particularly noticeable in the shadows and the dark mosaic background.
the 600ex-rt has a guide number of 60 meters / 197 feet at maximum zoom, and has a zoom range of 20 to 200mm.
most digital slrs and cscs will produce an excellent iso 100 shot, so we like to push them and see what they can do compared to other cameras at iso 1,600, 3,200, and 6,400.
most digital slrs and cscs will produce an excellent iso 100 shot, so we  like to push them and see what they can do compared to other cameras at iso  1,600, 3,200, and 6,400.
as in that camera, there are 41 cross-type points, of which 20 work to  f/4.0, and 21 are f/5.6 capable.
also new since the 5d mark ii is canon's ai servo iii, which is quicker to  start tracking your subject, and should handle momentary obstructions between  camera and subject more gracefully.
as if to underscore the advantage of full frame and canon's recent advancement, the canon 7d's iso 3,200 images are even fuzzier, seen as if through frosted glass by comparison.
also, because the 5d mark iii is a beta unit, keep in mind image quality may not be representative of final production models.
1 canon pixma pro 9000 mark ii 2 canon pixma mg8220 3 canon pixma mg6220
canon  says that video moire has been greatly reduced since the 5d mark ii.
dimensions are 6.0 x 4.6 x 3.0 inches (152.0 x  116.4 x 76.4mm).
compression choices are all-i  intraframe or ipb interframe, with embedded free-run or rec-run timecode.
the grip is sized right for the camera body, though somewhat  large for small hands; it fit my medium-sized hands comfortably.
the d4 image is a bit grainier, however, particularly in the shadows.
the grip is sized right for the camera body, though somewhat large for small hands; it fit my medium-sized hands comfortably.
canon 5d mark iii versus nikon d3x at iso 1,600 canon 5d mark iii at iso 1,600 nikon d3x at iso 1,600
for the first time in an eos model other than the 1-series, the 5d mark iii can now capture 2, 3, 5, or 7 shots in a bracketed sequence.
just like the  1d x, you can combine up to nine frames into a single exposure in-camera.
canon specs the body weight at 30.3 ounces (860g) body only.
the lcd itself is a 3:2 aspect ratio design that's just as gorgeous as recent models have been, with a 1.04-million dot array.
interestingly--and unsurprisingly--the d4  does a little better with the red leaf swatch at iso 100, but misses the  texture of the pink swatch beneath.
this can be  approximately doubled by shooting with two packs, using the bg-e11 battery grip.
among the user requests that canon has heard and answered with the 5d mark iii, there's now a side-by-side comparative playback display (including synced magnification and a histogram function), plus the ability to manually set the first four characters of image file names.
as well as enabling faster 6 fps burst shooting, there's also more power for noise reduction, and canon is predicting a two-stop improvement for jpeg shooting.
the mosaic crop is noticeably sharper, and the pink swatch has  excellent detail, and the red leaf swatch is pretty respectable.
thanks to its full-frame sensor, there's  no focal length crop.
this refers to a built-in  database that allows automatic correction of both spherical and chromatic  aberration, astigmatism, curvature of field, diffraction, and low-pass filter  effects.
as well as 1080p 24/25/30 fps and vga 25/30 fps, there's now a 720p 50/60  fps mode.
lower left of the lcd are three holes for the speaker, and a small window for the ambient light sensor, used to automatically adjust the lcd backlight.
even so, keeping with canon tradition, many buttons have shuffled around, and new ones created.
15 radio channels are available (plus auto), and up to 15  speedlite flashes can be used on a channel, in as many as five groups, with  each group separately able to be set to e-ttl or controlled manually.
we'll go over the other features in more  detail below, but the canon 5d mark iii also includes a 150,000-cycle shutter  rating; a new hdr mode; full hd, 1080p video at 24, 25, and 30 frames per  second; a 3.2-inch, 1.04m-dot lcd; a new cmos sensor with higher sensitivity  and an eight-channel readout that allows a 6-frame-per-second frame rate; a  quick control dial that includes touch capability for silent adjustments while  in video mode; multiple raw image sizes; 100-percent viewfinder coverage with  an adjustable lcd grid and af overlay; a 1.5 percent spot meter; a dual-axis  leveling system; and standard or quiet operation modes.