stop over to the blog for all the details, links, and show notes.
focal length/crop factor/shutter speed settings - check the blog for details listener questions: be sure when you stop over to the good folks at plm to get the podcast, to check out the lensbaby composer - a great resource for managing blur in your photos!
not much other news to share - going out on two meetup events tonight in downtown denver so should have several christmas-y type pictures for sharing throughout the week next week.
this requires you to be more careful about  what you publish, and as a result, you are more thoughtful and objective of  what work is worth posting and sharing online.
right, this week is the final podcast broadcast for cb this year!
we cover everything from the photo news beat, to hiking photography, how to break into the business, and even tackle daunting questions like sizing for digital frames, proprietary batteries versus standards, and much more.
make sure you tune in for this one from the good folks over at personal life media to get all the news, info, and latest from learning digital photography!
some photo tips, news, suggestions, ideas, and listener questions abound as well.
not only did it turn out better than i would have thought, i was also very pleased with how photomatix did with this.
however, there are still some show notes and a sample portrait  over at the blog, so be sure to stop there and pick up the feed.
here's the links, as promised from the show!more.
if you like it, chime in via the comments section of the blog.
first off, i've done some further tweaking to give a little more  consistency and structure to the show for your listening pleasure.
(almost half a year of images  there to rack your brain on!)
show notes, as always, are available over on the blogmore.
a couple learning opportunities presented themselves to me recently
as prices may change, and sales may happen, those are approximate according to the date of publication.
sometimes i'll share information that's available elsewhere,  and other times i'll offer my own perspectives on the news and events that  shape the industry.
you can find him there, via his bourne media group online presence and a bazillion other places like photoshop world, aperture nature photography workshops, bosque del apache, and much much more.
we took a look at a little of the gear side, got some nuggets on branding and the business side, and even had a chance for a couple twitter questions.
podcasts and blogs with expert advice on personal growth, anti-aging, intimacy and relationships.
i look at what gallery and show fine art venues usually require versus home or personal use.
a couple learning opportunities presented themselves to me recently and i wanted to share these before they got too fuzzy.
last but not least, the photo tip of the week concerns copyright and registering your work, so make sure you stay tuned for that.
diggs, reviews, and such (as always) are appreciated and encouraged!more.
show notes are over on the blog, as usual.
some great views were had and i only hope that they all come out as well as this one did.
lots of photo goodness to share, so make sure you tune in for the audio, and stop by the blog to pick up the link for the photo gallery.
episode 19: blur baby, blur!
i’m also sharing a few sources of inspiration from the grocery store too (tune in tomorrow for those).
also on this weeks show, i take a brief look at the subject of photography and the law - what your rights are and the best way to handle security and officers who question you.when out and about.
episode 16: hdr, web links, and some news
rounding out the show this week are 10 tip for capturing your best shots this summer.
as we head into the weekend, be sure to take your camera with you - never know when a photo opportunity will present itself, so as the boy scouts always said: “be prepared!”
it doesn’t even have to be a canon camera, listen to your camera whether it’s canon nikon, olympus, sony, pentax, panasonic, leica, hasselblad, etc! find out why in the podcast up now over at personal life media
the listener questions were really good ones from meredith and jason, where i take a look at the value of carbon fiber and the issue of when and where are we permitted to photograph.
hey all, this week’s show is done and boy are you in for a treat!
rounding out the show this week are 10 tip for  capturing your best shots this summer.
access it free from your browser or subscribe via rss or itunes for your ipod or mp3 player.
episode 15: multimedia monday
feel free, as always to share your thoughts,  comments, and feedback either here at the plm site with diggs, on itunes via  the review option, on twitter, in the blog comments, or with me directly via  email.
don't forget, if you're picking this up  from the folks at plm, give the show a shout by "digging" it.
we site down with becky thomas (a.k.a. bec) and talk about some of the creative elements that go into the process.
show note are here: http://www.canonblogger.com/2010/09/09/encouraging-the-slide/more.
here's the show notes: while the folks at personal life media continue to work behind the scenes at getting the show re-branded, i’ve been encouraged to keep producing podcasts so, this week, the podcast returns.
don't forget to digg the podcast here at plm, or write a review on itunes if you have an idea or thought to share about the show.
some great views  were had and i only hope that they all come out as well as this one did.
i take a  (hopefully) clear look at different types of blur you can get in your images,  what can work, what will not work, and how to correct for different  types.
thanks for tuning in and we’ll see you back here  tomorrow!
here's the short  version of the show notes: working for free
not only is it more intuitive than photoshop, the results were much more gratifying!
one  thing i like about both fotoblur and flickr is that you are limited in how many  images you can upload daily.
a little dash of some photo news and tidbits are thrown in too, but more importantly, the previously hyped and promoted conversation with david duchemin is now live and ready for your listening enjoyment.
of course the show always takes care of a  couple listener questions and answers, so it’s 45 jam-packed minutes of  photography fun.
you can buy photomatix for ps, lightroom and for either windows or a mac over at http://www.hdrsoft.com some other web links i learned about recently also include fotoblur.com and usefilim.com
be sure to tune in for a show chock full of useful resources!more.
for those that prefer the rss audio feeds, it is available here at plm or via the link to itunes.
thanks again to scott for taking the time to talk to me on the podcast!
and i  wanted to share these before they got too fuzzy.
with communities cropping up for every nuance and interest, one literally has dozens, if not hundreds upon thousands to choose from.
this weej erik bernkiold comes back to the mic to participate in the chat as we take a look at some of the concerns over travel photography.
we also rolled out a new delivery system for news so that i can focus more on the interviews and conversations with notables from around the industry, so please also give a shout out to trevor current, and if you get a chance visit him over on his site, www.currentphotographer.com you can also find nicolesy on her blog and on twitter as well under that handle (see links on the sidebar).more.
here’s a teaser on the show notes: all that on this week's show, with more details, links and notes on the blog!more.
if you are ambivalent, well…chime in via the comments in the blog!
in this episode i take a look at some "best practices" for post processing noise and sharpening with your images inside of photoshop.
so, download the latest to your ipod, mp3 player or listen on your commutes…more.
we cover a lot of information together with this new conversational format rather than the interview style.
hope your holidays were great, and happy shooting!more.
in the future, send me links to your websites so i can return the generosity on the podcast and here on the blog post.
so, pick up the feed today, or stop in to the blog to not only download the show, but also to see the other content that isn’t in the daily feeds (things like the online photography test, colors and textures galleries, polls and more!
not only is there some pretty ground-breaking news from the computing world, but the theme for this podcast is blur!
i’ve also got a link to my twitter, to my google profile page (you’ve got a google profile page, right?), and more i am sure will be forthcoming.
and it also seems that the feedback can easily be done via: the comments section of the blog!
episode 21: portraits, promotion, and planning this week’s podcast episode should be available shortly over at  personal life media.
as an exclusive istock contributor she had some very interesting insights into how to get into stock photography, things to consider, sources of inspiration, and much more.
so, if you want to learn what the artist statement is, how to write one, and things to consider, this is the show for you.
this week, erik bernskiold comes back to the show to talk some more about best practices for sharing your photos online.
lots of great stuff for your listening enjoyment.
congrats go out to the winner (you know who you are!), so do get me your address
don't forget, if you're picking this up from the folks at plm, give the show a shout by "digging" it.
hope that shopping is almost done!
home shows blogs hosts advertisers how to become a host store about us back to top © 2007-2008 personal life media privacy policy terms of service contact us personal life media, inc. offers authentic content about personal transformation, consciousness, life-purpose, ecology, sustainable living, anti-aging and longevity, cosmetic surgery, new music, dating, relationships, intimacy sensuality—things that bring you joy.
thanks again go out to jen rinaldi for taking the time to sit down and participate in the thursday thoughts series.
also on this weeks show, questions and answers to some of the many listener questions and answers.
until next week, happy shooting!more.
itunes reviews and feedback are always appreciated, as are blog comments and  email.
the three segments that i am going to try to regularly stick to will be: head on over to the blog for the remainder of the show notes and links!more.
what defines controversy?
blogging for photographers is all about how to set yourself up to launch and continue the project of running a photo blog - everything from configuration to design, layout, and functionality, all covered by myself and special guest host, kerry garrison of camera dojo fame.
however, as the old saying goes, good things come to those who wait.
let me know your favorites in the comments and the tallying shall begin.
lastly, the listener questions and answers, and some contest news rounds out the show too!
we made the most of our time together as we chatted for nearly two hours!
i do have to apologize for the audio quality as i had to record it on the fly using the mbp in my car!
thanks for tuning in, and enjoy the show!
check out the show notes over at canon blogger.com for all the details!more.
lots of photo goodness to share, so make sure you tune in for the audio,  and stop by the blog to pick up the link for the photo gallery.
so, this last weekend i went on the photo meetup group outing for the month of february into eldorado state park, south of boulder, and had many an opportunity to capture some landscape and macro work.
the podcast also raises an interesting question about the disconnect between creative thinking versus communicative thinking and looks at the disconnect that often occurs between these two mindsets.
the meat is in the maintenance with another week come to a close, i got a late start in recording and  putting together the podcast for today, so it’s going up a tad  late.
take a look at her website linked off the show notes here and over on the blog.
what are the benefits?
what are we looking for?
as i tinker a little with the audio quality of the show and try to make things more seamless and enjoyable, you’ll notice i am pushing the show out in segments, with some music to break things up in little snips between the subject material.
as we head into the weekend, be sure to take your camera with you - never  know when a photo opportunity will present itself, so as the boy scouts always  said:  “be prepared!”
i thought about it for a second and decided to  bracket some exposures to see if it would turn out with some hdr  massaging.
however, as the old saying goes, good things come to those who  wait.
as my interests wax and wane into different specifics, i find myself moving from one community to another in search of what i am looking for and i suspect others do the same.
there's also nuggets and links for other contests out on the web as well as what to look for in future ldp contests, so some teaser stuff there too.
- kevin from co - best way to learn photography tomorrow, the last what’s this of the year, and then lights out…nothing again until next week.
thanks to everyone for taking the time to submit their questions for consideration too.
(other than the fact that it’s  the last one of the year…) more.
so, this last weekend i went on the photo meetup group outing for the month  of february into eldorado state park, south of boulder, and had many an  opportunity to capture some landscape and macro work.
well, i was going to save the podcast for tuesday, but decided since some  of the information was from this week that i had better put it out before it
lots to listen to and it's all jam-packed into a 30 minute show this time.
listen in to the podcast right here at personal life for the answers and  full details on all the show segments.
if not, be sure you tune in for those last minute gift ideas!
we talked a lot about lightroom, working at napp, and took a few listener questions and answers.
how high can you crank the iso?
remember to digg the podcast page too - more listeners means more questions and answers, and more fodder for podcasts!more.
is it the photographer, the conditions, the viewer, or something else altogether?
their podcast can be found linked on the right.more.
in this week's episode, i look at off-camera lighting, specifically at radio transmitters, infrared transmitters and a number of different companies that deliver products.
stop  on over to personal life media for the show, or pick it up in itunes!
stop on over to personal life media for the show, or pick it up in itunes!
we talk a lot about the development and future of lightroom 3, some of the lesser known features and their usage, and a new contest is announced.
head on over to the blog for the remainder of the show notes and links!
case in point, is the new gallery i have set up here at the blog, titled tabletop photography.
for those of us with aspirations of sharing our work with  others via art shows, galleries, contests and competitions, the value of the  artist statement can make the difference between getting into a show, gallery  or other event and buying a ticket.
episode 23: super sigmas, photowalks, and
first off, the  drawing for the think tank photo streetwalker bag was done live on the podcast  this week, and the winner was announced in the lead segment.
you  can buy photomatix for ps, lightroom and for either windows or a mac over at  http://www.hdrsoft.com
formerly, these guys hosted the digital photography show on another network and they’ve since moved on.
the next edition of thursday thoughts  will come back the second week of january (i couldn’t find it in myself  to ask someone to put something together for new years day any more than  christmas day!)
enjoy the day and we’ll see you  back here tomorrow!
lots to talk about, and a great time all around, including the theme and announcement for the november giveaway!more.
ironically, the new topic for this weeks podcast is also about sound - the sound of shutters and how they can impact the feel of the camera, and how they can effect a moment is significant enough to warrant consideration.
and i'll look into each and give a few answers on this weeks show.
i’m also sharing a few sources of inspiration from the  grocery store too (tune in tomorrow for those).
the 2nd segment looks at the value of social networking, so naturally here, i will suggest you stop by and say hi to me on twitter, flickr, and through the various forums i participate in.
so, i took a look at some: photo news
happy shooting all and don't forget to stop by the blog for the show notes.more.
if you don't know who scott bourne is, then you're living in a cave.
all in all, a great (but long) show so grab it from your preferred source point, whether with the folks at plm, or in itunes!
with the “new and improved” podcast starting out at plm this  week, there’s a couple exciting things to announce.
often these can  come from well known venues such as photography magazines, galleries, and the  like, but i am not adverse to featuring unusual or new sources either.
happy shooting all and don't forget to stop by the blog for the  show notes.
find out how this all relates to photography (very cool ways) on the podcast today!
here's what's on the agenda.
we look not only at how to create compelling captures, but also at how the idea of controversy fits into the picture.
learn about designer/photographer jason loucks get some tips and tricks on shooting fireworks take in a few listener questions and answers all that on this week's show, with more details, links and notes on the  blog!
episode 18: how do you like to sound?
seminars on this week's show discussion centers around some news and events from  around the web and over at the blog.
their first show on the new network right here at personal life media is up and ready for your listening pleasure, so do stop over and give it a listen - great to have them back on the air!
while hiking up a trail of slippery snow and ice (it was cold out saturday morning), i saw this fissure that was pretty intense looking because it was only partially lit.
(ooooh, sounds fancy!)
i did a multicast show with kerry garrison of camera dojo, we both joined forces to cover a pretty extensive range of news items for a rather long show this week.
as that content arc has ended, i thought it might be fun and  of interest to see the entire gallery of photos that have gone up on that  subject over a period of roughly 23 weeks.
more info on both camerashere the other big photo news of the week comes to us courtesy of apple, with the latest updates to ipods not only by adding features, but also by decreasing cost.
however, there are still some show notes and a sample portrait over at the blog, so be sure to stop there and pick up the feed.
on this week's show, we've got a great treat - we're talking to photographer andie smith, a dallas-based photographer on how she approaches the idea of travel photography.
also on this weeks show - a lot of listener questions are taken - half the  show!
(we finished out one of the basement rooms - expect  to see some photos on that makeover forthcoming!)
the next edition of thursday thoughts will come back the second week of january (i couldn’t find it in myself to ask someone to put something together for new years day any more than christmas day!)
this week, we're tackling the subject of low light photography, looking at both the technical and creative side of shooting in low light.
authors and artists from within and related to the  industry of photography are also an area i would like to devote some time to  since the thursday thoughts series has not seen much attention lately (not that  i am planning to either - i think it's just on sabbatical!), and i had the good  fortune of actually sitting down with an area professional recently which  provided a source of inspiration for this weeks show.
with the “new and improved” podcast starting out at plm this week, there’s a couple exciting things to announce.
check out the links in the sidebar for his books at amazon and his website too.
hey all, this week’s show is done and boy are you in for a  treat!
then tackle some  tips on photography fireworks.
got some great listener questions and answers that tie in very nicely to the theme, and as, always the photo tip of the week.
episode 22: your questions, adobe's answers on this week's show, we take some listener questions, provide a little  background and insight in some answers, the segue into our second half - an  interview with none other than tom, hogarty, senior product manager for adobe  lightroom.
martin is a photographer, teacher, blogger, podcaster, and guru of many many things, based out of japan!
and last but not least, on the subject of freebies, my apologies for the two contest mentions from popular photography, but they have since closed (i hate it when they don’t indicate that at the source page!), sorry!more.
to start things off, leica released two new cameras in a synchronized announcement including a full frame ranger finder camera for $6995 and a crop factor camera with 12 mp for just under $2k which will release around the holidays.
sources of inspiration - as artists i think we are always  searching for and discovering new sources of inspiration.
naturally, the title of the podcast will match the  blog post title, as the show notes follow closely to todays content.
itunes reviews and feedback are always appreciated, as are blog comments and email.
heh, cheesy headline, but they all seam together on this week's episode of learning digital photography!
this weeks show also grabs some of the latest photo news headlines, and we take a few listener questions and answers so be sure to stop over on the blog for the rundown and additional info including a teaser for rick's new book that's coming out soon!more.
finally, the popular listener question and answer segment returns, with some great ones coming from all over the globe!
for those that are grabbing from the itunes feed, you know the drill (and probably already have it).
also, i’ve set up a special email address for listener questions.
while the folks at personal life media continue to work behind the scenes  at getting the show re-branded, i’ve been encouraged to keep producing  podcasts so, this week, the podcast returns.
so, share your questions, comments, and feedback through the many opportunities here at the blog and via email.
the  three segments that i am going to try to regularly stick to will be: news, events, and information from around the community  and industry - here i'll share nuggets, information, and other useful snippets  from the most recent days and weeks of activity within the photography  community.
welcome to episode # 42 of the learning digital photography podcast!
here's the show notes: as you may have noticed if you’re picking up the feed, i am also uploading all the “what’s this” images to the canon blogger flickr pool.
thanks for tuning in, and we'll see you next time!
episode 17: news, artists, and inspiration welcome to the show notes for week #17 of learning digital  photography.
also in this episode, a primer on framing your photos: things to look for and avoid when matting and framing work.
focal length/crop factor/shutter speed settings - check the blog for details listener questions: battery length portrait lenses be sure when you stop over to the good folks at plm to get the podcast, to  check out the lensbaby composer - a great resource for managing blur in your  photos!
(other than the fact that it’s the last one of the year…)more.
while hiking up a trail of slippery snow and ice (it was cold out saturday  morning), i saw this fissure that was pretty intense looking because it was  only partially lit.
hmmm…seems like someone would like to hear what the listening audience thinks of the changes in the format for the audio podcast.
episode 20: the power of the pen on this weeks show, i take a look at the power of the pen - the artist  statement.
only a few weeks left there.
that's enough news and excitement for one day, so make sure to stop back in tomorrow for more photography news and info as we head into the tail end of summer weekend photography fun.
it’s a good one though with an announcement of the new  product line i’ll be reviewing.
on this weeks show - really episode #24 (i goofed the intro and said it was  #25) - a short discussion on how i do reviews of hardware and software for the  blog and podcast, an interview with erik bernskiold, and lots of listener  questions and answers.
the latest podcast episode has been published and in this week’s episode i talk about a new podcast to hit the airwaves - digital photography life, hosted by none other than scott sherman and michael stein.
that, along with online photo contests, the nomination announcement for the top 8 of 2008 blogs/podcasts are now open, and of course, listener questions.
last but not least, i also look at some of the more exciting things that were a part of photoshop user magazine’s latest issue (december 2008) including the gonzo gear guide from scott kelby, and the 100 greatest photoshop tips!
of course the show, as always, is rounded out with a few q&a, and a road tip for you.
make  sure you tune in for this one from the good folks over at personal life media  to get all the news, info, and latest from learning digital photography!
so twitter me, i’ll tweet ya back!
thanks for tuning in, and enjoy the show!more.
finally, i also let you know about the latest project to be looking for from cb and ldp - a monthly newsletter, and let you know how to become a featured artist in a monthly newsletter.
prize package worth $500 retail, just follow the link in the show notes.
thanks to everyone for taking the time to submit their questions  for consideration too.
find out about various online groups and communities galore through flickr, strobist, and locally, the colorado strobists as great resources for learning past the diy stage.more.
here’s a few of the show notes: news links - hp z800 specs - (listen to the show to find out why this is so amazing it’s the only news story!)
i had the pleasure of sitting down and talking to rick sammon (a fellow canonite) and we chatted quite a bit on the subject of learning photography - different venues and how to go about both learning and teaching the subject!
here’s a teaser on the show notes: win a copy of onone software plugin suite 4.5 - valued at $500!
(don’t forget to leave your thoughts in the review section of itunes  too…the more the merrier!)
ironically, the new topic for this weeks podcast is also about sound - the  sound of shutters and how they can impact the feel of the camera, and how they  can effect a moment is significant enough to warrant consideration.
thanks for tuning in and we’ll see you back here tomorrow!
enjoy the day and we’ll see you back here tomorrow!
is shooting wide open worth it?
stop over at the blog for the rest of the show notes, and don't forget to digg above here at plm, and review the show on itunes if you like it!
we hit on everything too last but not least, we tackle some listener questions...show notes should be available either over on ldp's blog (www.canonblogger.com) or camera dojo depending on when you listen!
(don’t forget to leave your thoughts in the review section of itunes too…the more the merrier!)more.
not only is there some pretty ground-breaking news from the  computing world, but the theme for this podcast is blur!
also on this weeks show - a lot of listener questions are taken - half the show!
just a reminder that the onone software plugin suite 4.5 contest has about ten days left, so make sure you get your "numbers" themed shot in soon.
there's also a few web links of interest, including one on how to make your own backlight!more.
photos,  podcasts, and questions galore.
in preparation for the next podcast, due in no small part to a technical difficulty with garage band, i’ve set up a dedicated computer and recording space (call it my dedicated recording studio) and the audio quality is off the charts better than anything i’ve done before.
lynn from wi - are 3rd party batteries safe?
other content from the show includes a discussion on some of the things to consider on matting and framing (hence mats in the title), and an in-depth look at the finalists from the last ldp contest.
on this weeks show, i take a look at the power of the pen - the artist statement.
last but not least, the podcast that i had intended to put out last week was delayed for a few days as i put the finishing touches up on a home improvement project.
the final broadcast of 2008
what made this week’s podcast different from any other podcast i’ve done this year?
then tackle some tips on photography fireworks.
here's the show notes: photo news think tank contest almost over listener questions & photo tip of the week happy shooting  and we'll see you back here tomorrow.
i’ve referenced a few communities here from time to time, including ones that i still participate in on a regular and on-going basis.
well, that can vary depending on where we’ve been and where we want to go.
last but not least, here’s your friday funny from what the duck:more.
this week’s podcast episode should be available shortly over at personal life media.
welcome to the show notes for week #17 of learning digital photography.
stop over to the blog for all the  details, links, and show notes.
feel free, as always to share your thoughts, comments, and feedback either here at the plm site with diggs, on itunes via the review option, on twitter, in the blog comments, or with me directly via email.
i’ve not heard anyone talk about this specifically before, so would be interested especially in reader thoughts on this particular subject!
more detailed notes available on the blog.more.
this week, i will be featuring an unusual source of inspiration, so make sure  you stop in for this segment too!
episode 10: food for thought
today, i take a look at some lighting resources online, some great patterns inside cs3 (not available in cs4), and i take a few listener questions and answers, including recording software, crop factors, and photo terminology.
happy shooting and we’ll see  you back here monday morning!
not only is it  more intuitive than photoshop, the results were much more gratifying!
we've been trying to coordinate schedules for nearly 6 months now and finally had a chance to sit down and talk.
enjoy the show, and don't forget to stop over to the blog for the detailed show notes!more.
host of learning digital photography a sample of learning digital photography guests: episode # 50 is in the house with andie smith joining me for a discussion of lightroom presets versus photoshop actions, the pros and cons of each.
yup, the podcast is done, and for those that didn't catch my twitter tease, this week i had the distinct pleasure of talking with none other than scott bourne on the show!
got some great listener questions and answers that tie in very  nicely to the theme, and as, always the photo tip of the week.
scott is a regular contributor to mac break weekly, this week in photography, and owner/operator of photofocus.
it's a great segment, where we talk about the design of lightroom, how it fits into the photographer's work flow, and where development of the industry as a whole is likely to head.
the good news is that not only is the basement room on the verge of completion, but that the podcast is up for this week.
here's the show notes for episode #33 of learning digital photography: news canon 7d gets firmware update image analysis using 3-d software toyota grabs images off flickr david duchemin interview
in the meantime, what does your  shutter sound like?
so, to kind of help clear the air on all the vagaries of photo forums online, i cobbled together my weekly podcast to talk about three basic types that i see all over the internet.more.
as we approach the half century mark in the learning digital photography podcast series, erik bernskiold joins us on the show for another session of doling out some good photo tips - great ways to take and make better pictures and take your photography to the next level.
happy shooting and enjoy the show!more.
and we'll see you next time at ldp!more.
all the show notes and web links can be found over on the blog, so stop over there as well for all the news and updates...enjoy!more.
the theme this time is fall (open to interpretation).
that's what happens when you let news build up over time, so start that treadmill, or start listening before you hit the car because we have almost 2 hours of content to enjoy!
first off, the drawing for the think tank photo streetwalker bag was done live on the podcast this week, and the winner was announced in the lead segment.
if these names sound familiar it’s because i have talked about them and their podcast before when they used to host the digital photography life.
and to top things off, a  contest, with - you guessed it - a copy of photoshop lightroom 2 going to the  lucky winner.
happy shooting everyone and thanks for listening!more.
on this weeks show, the interview was so much fun we talked for almost an hour before we realized it so the rest of the show i tried to keep things short.
also, i had a few contest news announcements, followed by the interview with terry reinert, and of course, rounded out the show with a few listener questions and answers on things like hair lights, filters, and the exposure triangle!
today, i take a somewhat introductory look at the prevalence of photography forums across the internet.
as that content arc has ended, i thought it might be fun and of interest to see the entire gallery of photos that have gone up on that subject over a period of roughly 23 weeks.
(we finished out one of the basement rooms - expect to see some photos on that makeover forthcoming!)
details in the podcast so be sure to tune in and catch all the details today!
on this latest show we've got a fantastic episode lined up including lots of news, reader/listener questions and answers, and a great conversation with martin bailey!
last but not least, the photo tip of  the week concerns copyright and registering your work, so make sure you stay  tuned for that.
here’s the show notes: web links with so many blogs and podcasts out there, it’s tough though - some were in it last year, so should i give consideration to others?
here's the show notes: the boneyard backstory think tank photo streetwalker review blog/podcast maintenance listener questions and answers photo tip of the week as you may have noticed if you’re picking up the feed, i am also  uploading all the “what’s this” images to the canon blogger  flickr pool.
what a great day to release a new podcast – with the final release of lr coming out very soon, i had the distinct opportunity to talk with rob sylvan, author of lr2 for dummies, and the forthcoming taking stock.
i never can keep the show count straight...in the teaser, i said it's show 34, but the count here is right, this is episode #32!
- lynn from wi - are 3rd party batteries safe?
both are much more cognizant and respective of photography copyright than other social and photo networking sites like flickr and facebook (we all know about the facebook terms of service fiasco, right?).
everything from lighting, to portraiture, landscape, architecture, and even food photography has a community of avid participants.
in the latest release of the ldp podcast, a shorter show this week as i prep for some other ventures, but there's still enough material to really sink your teeth into.
it’s the only news story!)
we tackle listener questions, some news (albeit a little dated), and overall just have a really good show.
(i know, i gave it a different title within the audio recording).
that’s right, this week is the final podcast broadcast for cb this  year!
i thought about it for a second and decided to bracket some exposures to see if it would turn out with some hdr massaging.
also on episode 27, i sit down and talk with rich charpentier - photographer extraordinaire.
happy shooting all and have a great week!more.
you’ll notice i have pulled the feed back to this site, and the format is more itunes compatible (m4a) so you can now see pics and chapter segments.more.
it's a great segment, where we talk about the design of  lightroom, how it fits into the photographer's work flow, and where development  of the industry as a whole is likely to head.
so, if you want to learn what the  artist statement is, how to write one, and things to consider, this is the show  for you.
happy shooting all, and we'll see you back here tomorrow!more.
here's the short version of the show notes: in other news, according to google analytics and feedburner data, cb hit an all time high in reader count yesterday with 566 people tuning in for jen’s interview!
in preparation for the next podcast, due in no small part to a technical  difficulty with garage band, i’ve set up a dedicated computer and  recording space (call it my dedicated recording studio) and the audio quality  is off the charts better than anything i’ve done before.
a couple blog announcements, some  links to contest info and other stuff is all available from the blog's show  notes, so be sure to stop over there to get the skinny on things like photo  walks, contest info, and blog news.
he hails from prescott, az, and has some wonderful hdr work, as well as some great stories and "chronicles" from his travels and living in an airstream of course, the show is rounded up this week with a few listener questions and answers, as always.
more photo news, additional q&a, and a new feed for the podcast start today, so be sure to download the latest show.
on this weeks show - really episode #24 (i goofed the intro and said it was #25) - a short discussion on how i do reviews of hardware and software for the blog and podcast, an interview with erik bernskiold, and lots of listener questions and answers.
that means you’re actually gonna have to spend time with  family, friends, and loved ones for a few days.
we also cover a bit of the photo beat from last week including some news stories about: panasonic's new audio system with photo viewer and the facebook automator using face detection for tagging friends and family paid picassa storage links to the news stories are over on the blog, so stop on over there for a gander also at the new look!more.
show notes are up at the blog, so be sure to stop by there for all the link goodness.
there's thoughts both ways
naturally, the title of the podcast will match the blog post title, as the show notes follow closely to todays content.
finally, i wrap up with some contest news, a road tip and a poll update.
this week’s show is a doozy - i talk about the latest contest, (#3  for 2009), have a fun conversation with jason loucks.
and we'll see you next week!
so, if you have questions about off-camera flash, this may be a good starting point.
diggs,  reviews, and such (as always) are appreciated and encouraged!
for now though - thanks!
the good news is that  not only is the basement room on the verge of completion, but that the podcast  is up for this week.
(almost half a year of images there to rack your brain on!)
thanks for tuning in and we'll see you next week!more.
lots to cover on the shot today (we went over my hour max by about 12 minutes, but all dated, so make sure you listen in before friday!
second up on the show, the contest news which regular readers mostly know about except for the october announcement of two new sponsors!
the meat segment (aka middle segment)
for those of you getting this in  feed readers, here’s the short version: christmas wrap-up:  a few last minute gift ideas for the photog-type  in your circle the new product line review announcement (you gotta listen to find out!  ) the value of starting over listener questions and answers dave from pa - hot shoe flashes:  tungsten or flourescent?
stop over at the blog for the rest of the show notes, and don't forget to  digg above here at plm, and review the show on itunes if you like it!
not too shabby after putting it all together, but not the greatest either.
what's an acceptable shutter speed?
consider it your friday food for thought!
feel free to share your thoughts, comments, reviews, and feedback both here on digg, and on itunes through the review section!
(i know, i gave  it a different title within the audio recording).
it's pretty much un-edited and a great show, so be sure to grab this one, and don't forget to stop by the website for the show notes.
on this week's show, lots of blog and podcast news to share including some contest updates, photo news, social media news, and much more.
great stuff and all packed into a mere 30 minute interview!
on this week's show, we take some listener questions, provide a little background and insight in some answers, the segue into our second half - an interview with none other than tom, hogarty, senior product manager for adobe lightroom.
for those of you getting this in feed readers, here’s the short version: - dave from pa - hot shoe flashes: tungsten or flourescent?
and to top things off, a contest, with - you guessed it - a copy of photoshop lightroom 2 going to the lucky winner.
here's the show notes for this week's podcast...
the next time you are at a restaurant, take your camera because the table makes for a great tripod, and you can get some really cool shots.
i could link to it all but that would take an entire post of it's own, so will point you to his main presence at photofocus and twitter: we had a great talk on this week's show, covering his photo background from motocross to wedding work, and of course his avian work as well.
in other blog-related news, don’t forget to vote in the poll on the sidebar!
the  next time you are at a restaurant, take your camera because the table makes for  a great tripod, and you can get some really cool shots.
as a result, i didn’t really get into the news of the last week, or address any listener questions.
it's been about a month, but with lots of news, a super fun interview with tyler stableford and some really interesting listener questions and answers, episode #44 is sure to be one to mark for listening.
or even putting it into the auto mode?
congrats go  out to the winner (you know who you are!), so do get me your address
if not, be sure you tune in for those last  minute gift ideas!
find out who the new sponsors are and what will be the giveaway for october in this episode.
gets “old”, so a new podcast is available for your listening  pleasure.
pricing from various websites was also reported.
as a result, i  didn’t really get into the news of the last week, or address any listener  questions.
this week we've got a great show with some really interesting news stories, some great listener q&a and tom hogarty stops back into the show to talk about the latest release from adobe.
enjoy the show, and i'll be back next week with a shorter show and more photo goodness...
hey all, welcome to the tuesday blog post for cb - today the latest in the canon blogger digital podcast series is up for your mobile listening pleasure.
our expert hosts bring you daily and weekly talk shows, reality-audio programming, interviews, advanced techniques and guided exercises in blogs, web audio and podcasting formats.
well, today the latest podcast is available where we go into a little more granularity on the subject.
i talk about some new sources of inspiration - specifically the grocery store and in a restaurant.
happy shooting and we’ll see you back here monday morning!more.
what to make of it all?
we're also posting the show two ways now - one via plm with the straight mp3 that goes to itunes and one on the blog that has interactive imagery so you can see the photos and stuff we're talking about.
be sure to stop by the blog for the show notes, and for a huge discount off the upcoming workshop series.more.
this requires you to be more careful about what you publish, and as a result, you are more thoughtful and objective of what work is worth posting and sharing online.
in the meantime, what does your shutter sound like?
p.s.  what made this week’s podcast different from any other  podcast i’ve done this year?
not only did it turn out better than i would have thought, i  was also very pleased with how photomatix did with this.
enjoy, and the show notes, as always, can be found over on the blog.
all the usual fun conversation points are there still with news, listener questions and answers, but now in actual conversations.
earlier this week we looked at 5 different ways to create compelling captures here on the blog.
episode 25: win, listen, and bang!
a great conversation for sure, with lots of laughs and totally unscripted!
if you don’t like it, well…chime in via the comments section of the blog.
you’ll want to listen when you really can dedicate the 25 minutes as it’s a pretty rapid fire show this week.
specs, guidelines, and such are discussed including dimensions, dates for submission and more.
on that note, don't forget the feed will be updating soon (as soon as itunes, plm, and myself can all get on the same sheet of music), so be on the lookout for that changeover.
so i can ship you the bag post haste!
exposure triangle filters hair lights this week’s show is a doozy - i talk about the latest contest, (#3 for 2009), have a fun conversation with jason loucks.
more detailed notes available on the blog.
with another week come to a close, i got a late start in recording and putting together the podcast for today, so it’s going up a tad late.
thanks for tuning in
can controversial pictures make for more compelling images?
first off, i've done some further tweaking to give a little more consistency and structure to the show for your listening pleasure.
be sure to visit the blog for show notes and more details of things to come: on this weeks' show, i take a few minutes at the beginning of the podcast to share my thoughts and experiences from the recent scott kelby worldwide photo walk that occurred on july 18th, as well as an admitted confession from a dedicated canon shooter!
i would highly  recommend this software to anyone interested in hdr work.
in this latest episode of learning digital photography, the grand prize winner from the september $500 giveaway is announced, and the october contest opens up - ready for your entries.
within the frame visionmongers compelling captures summary and contest notesmore.
david and i also talk about his travels, share a few anecdotes, and look at the world of photography in new and exciting ways - coming at things creatively rather than technically.
so i can  ship you the bag post haste!
download the show today, and get complete show notes, with links and more over at the blog.
one thing i like about both fotoblur and flickr is that you are limited in how many images you can upload daily.
for the rest of the world, here's a direct link to the show for listening to during the day or your workout/commute/etc.
it’s a good one though with an announcement of the new product line i’ll be reviewing.
the listener questions were really good ones from meredith and jason, where  i take a look at the value of carbon fiber and the issue of when and where are  we permitted to photograph.
on this week's show discussion centers around some news and events from around the web and over at the blog.
episode 12: the show must go on...
happy shooting all!more.
tune in to the podcast to listen to the details their show notes are posted on scott’s blog, and their show is right here at personal life media.
photos, podcasts, and questions galore.
this week it was a pleasure to have well-known stock photographer, nicole young (nicolesy) on the show.
holy cow was there a ton of news to cover!
kevin from co - best way to learn photography tomorrow, the last what’s this of the year, and then lights  out…nothing again until next week.
thanks for listening and we'll see you next time!more.
it's been a great year and we're looking forward to expanding the offerings for readers and listeners in 2010 - listen to todays show to hear all about what to expect in the coming year!
which ones are good and which are not as beneficial as others?
i take a (hopefully) clear look at different types of blur you can get in your images, what can work, what will not work, and how to correct for different types.
case in point, is  the new gallery i have set up here at the blog, titled tabletop  photography.
yup, i talk about 3 different types of cards that make for cool holiday gifts this year for the photographer you know.
well, i was going to save the podcast for tuesday, but decided since some of the information was from this week that i had better put it out before it gets “old”, so a new podcast is available for your listening pleasure.
i also tackle a few listener questions, and offer up a photo road tip for the listening audience.
(we all know about the facebook terms of service fiasco, right?).
you can get apple-specific details on their main page.
it doesn’t even have to be a canon  camera, listen to your camera whether it’s canon nikon, olympus, sony,  pentax, panasonic, leica, hasselblad, etc! find out why in the podcast up now  over at personal life media  the rest of the show notes, including  additional links referenced in the show are over at the blog.
tune in to get the low-down on everything from pocketwizards to cybersyncs, skyports and more.more.
episode 24: reviews, interviews and new views
a couple blog announcements, some links to contest info and other stuff is all available from the blog's show notes, so be sure to stop over there to get the skinny on things like photo walks, contest info, and blog news.
some other web links i learned about recently also include fotoblur.com and  usefilim.com  both are much more cognizant and respective of photography  copyright than other social and photo networking sites like flickr and facebook
we had a great chat that you definitely are going to want to tune in to to get some tips tricks and places to go for great photography.
of course the show always takes care of a couple listener questions and answers, so it’s 45 jam-packed minutes of photography fun.
sorry about that folks, but regardless of the number, this week you definitely want to tune in!
© 2007-2008 personal life media, inc.
last but not least, the podcast that i had intended to put out last week  was delayed for a few days as i put the finishing touches up on a home  improvement project.
here’s a few of the show notes: news links - hp z800 specs - (listen to the show to find out why this is so  amazing
i talk about some new sources of  inspiration - specifically the grocery store and in a restaurant.
for those of us with aspirations of sharing our work with others via art shows, galleries, contests and competitions, the value of the artist statement can make the difference between getting into a show, gallery or other event and buying a ticket.
you’ll want to listen when you really can  dedicate the 25 minutes as it’s a pretty rapid fire show this week.
of course, the staple news and q&a are back as always, and this week we did something extra special where we streamed the show live across ustream!
this week we expand on another blog post and take a look at the details of why lenses are a better investment than lenses.
we'll be looking to do this on a more regular basis, so be sure check out the new style - it should be a lot of fun!
listen in to the podcast right here at personal life for the answers and full details on all the show segments.
the rest of the show notes, including additional links referenced in the show are over at the blog.
on this week's show, rich charpentier is back and we're talking about all the latest news, including the new apple ipad, taking listener questions, and talking again about more printing and photography questions.
i would highly recommend this software to anyone interested in hdr work.
tune in to this week’s episode of the canon blogger podcast series, episode #6, from either the blog or your feed readers today!
if you’ve listened to the show and are still yearning for more, please stop by fellow podcasters scott sherman and michael stein’s new podcast series: digital photography life.
a couple of show notes: the 1st segment is a more detailed look from yesterdays post on the cost of doing business, and talks about the details involved in creating a business plan.
also on this weeks show, i had the opportunity to talk with matthew bamberg, a well-known and respected photographer and author of digital photography books.
you can keep using the original (jason  canonblogger  com, but now a special one has been set up at: questions  canonblogger  com too!
it turns out i can ramble on for quite a bit as i take a look at three distinct topics: i also take the usual spate of reader/listener questions (great ones this go around, so thanks and shout outs to marcus, krista, and nick!
remember to digg the podcast page too - more listeners means more questions  and answers, and more fodder for podcasts!
show notes are over on the blog so be sure to stop by http://www.canonblogger.com/2010/06/22/lightroom-3-is-here-now-what/ to check out: a conversation with tom hogartymore.
we'll look at planning and packing for travel, security concerns, and how to scout before you leave.
hope that  shopping is almost done!
that means you’re actually gonna have to spend time with family, friends, and loved ones for a few days.
there's photo news, and q&a as always, so be sure to stop over to the blog and get the show notes for this last episode of 2009!
this week we take a look at the dial on your dslr - what do they do and is it worth it taking it off the auto mode?