i have to give a slight edge to the nikon d3x for stellar performance  provided at iso 6400.
very small amount of visible noise here.
ironically, go back just a few short years and most of us were shooting film,  buying film, developing film, and getting prints for all out efforts.
image noise fri, 01/30/2009 - 00:04 high iso test images: all images were processed from raw at default raw converter settings with  no additional changes.
it is incredible to me how both manufacturers continue to be able to add more and more photosites without sacrificing image quality at high iso settings.
taking pictures of the family pet sometimes takes - well - the family to get it done.
there are very serious reasons why the nikon d3x would and should be  preferred by certain photographers.
it has a superior body build and a better autofocus system to mention just two.
a graycolorright target is included in the full raw file for setting white balance.
without it now i don't feel dressed.read more... pawtography and you!
pictures of your dog or cat if done right inspires exclamations of praise and encouragement's to "enter that picture in a contest"!
i expect both manufacturers will be able to pull even more out of sensor designs at this size as technology continues to move forward.
overall, the yellow is probably a slightly more pleasing representation of the  scene, but is still far from accurate.
canon 5d mkii vs. nikon d3x image noise challenge conclusion: our two new entrants pull ahead of all of the current dslrs on the market.
it is incredible to me how both manufacturers  continue to be able to add more and more photosites without sacrificing image  quality at high iso settings.
these cameras are available (depending on stock) from these trusted  sources, and in ourpro store: canon eos 5d mark ii (body only) - amazon canon eos 5d mark ii camera with ef 24-105mm f/4 l is usm lens - amazon nikon d3x 24.5mp
there are very serious reasons why the nikon d3x would and should be preferred by certain photographers.
moncler women jackets can  be easily recognized due to unique style and signature logo label.
of course, there is much more to making images than just final image  quality.
the latest high resolution entrants have upped the ante even further.
becuase the "pattern"  of the grain starts to have a larger impact on the overall  "pleasantness" of the image.
much less noise, but you now get 21 megapixels instead of 13 for  approximately the same price point.
it has a superior body build and a better  autofocus system to mention just two.
too close to call again.
these cameras are available (depending on stock) from these trusted sources, and in ourpro store: canon eos 5d mark ii (body only) - amazon canon eos 5d mark ii camera with ef 24-105mm f/4 l is usm lens - amazon nikon d3x 24.5mp
you guys can't be beat for specialty gear rental.
you guys can't  be beat for specialty gear rental.
of course, there is much more to making images than just final image quality.
ironically, go back just a few short years and most of us were shooting film, buying film, developing film, and getting prints for all out efforts.
winner: the nikon d3x and canon 5d mkii still exhibit the trademark differences in auto white balance performance.
and it has gotten to be a habit to grab my keys, wallet, a quarter (gotta have some cash) and the g10.
taking pictures of the family pet sometimes takes - well - the family to  get it done.
the nikon images were shot using the nikkor 85mm f/1.4 lens at f/1.8 using  auto white balance.
but again, have a closer look at the original canon 5d vs. the new canon 5d mkii.
download raw version of this image here.
free pph newsletter
the nikon images were shot using the nikkor 85mm f/1.4 lens at f/1.8 using auto white balance.
title:  moncler down jackets is most moncler down jackets is most definitely one clothes designer which managed  to transpose the dream coats of a woman into reality.
high iso test images: all images were processed from raw at default raw converter settings with no additional changes.
canon awb tends to run a bit magenta under tungsten lighting while nikon tends toward yellow.
this speaks well for both canon and nikon and the future of image quality improvements in the full frame format.
nice! iso 6400: download raw version of this image here.
pictures of your dog or cat if done right inspires exclamations of praise  and encouragement's to "enter that picture in a contest"!
all images below were shot with a single tungsten household light bulb.
i think i may prefer the "texture" of the nikon "grain" (noise).
iso 1600: download raw version of this image here.
all  canon camera settings are identical using either the canon 85mm (f/1.8 or  f/1.2l) lens in aperture priority at f/1.8 or the canon 50mm f/1.4 lens at  f/1.8 with auto white balance on.
i  have yet to see any noticeable banding at iso 6400 using the nikon d3x at  6400.
overall, the yellow is probably a slightly more pleasing representation of the scene, but is still far from accurate.
these are two still cameras canon and nikon should be proud to have produced.
the images above again illustrate how clean shooting at iso 1600 has become  for both nikon and canon shooters.
this comes with higher resolution to boot.
the images above again illustrate how clean shooting at iso 1600 has become for both nikon and canon shooters.
much less noise, but you now get 21 megapixels instead of 13 for approximately the same price point.
i have to give a slight edge to the nikon d3x for stellar performance provided at iso 6400.
special thanks to everyone at professional photo resources.
read more after the bite - um, the jump.
the latest high resolution entrants have  upped the ante even further.
please feel free to use the raw file downloads for making your own assessments in your preferred raw converter.
it is hard to tell from this one image sample, but i will have to give the  nikon d3x a very small edge at iso 6400.
however, the lead is not tremendous, and when you consider the sobering  fact that you can acquire 2 canon 5d mkiis before you can buy one nikon d3x,  you have to give canon a big hand for that simple feature called value.
parent login or register to post comments canon g10 -
i expect both manufacturers will be able  to pull even more out of sensor designs at this size as technology continues to  move forward.
i have yet to see any noticeable banding at iso 6400 using the nikon d3x at 6400.
fx digital slr (body only) - amazon you can also find these cameras at b&h photo.
i'm a little perplexed as to why nikon did not choose to push this  sensor even higher.
too close to call  again.
a graycolorright target is included in the  full raw file for setting white balance.
i believe it would actually hold up as well, or  better, than anything else on the market at this time.
iso 3200 winner: again, nice step up here!
overall, this really is almost too close to call.
i'm a little perplexed as to why nikon did not choose to push this sensor even higher.
however, the lead is not tremendous, and when you consider the sobering fact that you can acquire 2 canon 5d mkiis before you can buy one nikon d3x, you have to give canon a big hand for that simple feature called value.
it is hard to tell from this one image sample, but i will have to give the nikon d3x a very small edge at iso 6400.
but i have been carrying the g10 in my pocket for the past year or so
the nikon d3x and canon 5d mkii seem to be running neck and neck here.
iso 6400 winner: iso 6400 is now immenently usable for many photo applications.
without it now i don't feel dressed.read more...
digital photography has taken over as the main photographic method today.
becuase the "pattern" of the grain starts to have a larger impact on the overall "pleasantness" of the image.
additionally, the canon 5d mkii  occassionally exhibits very light, but visible, banding at this high iso.
please register here to more fully access pro photo home.
bookmark/search this post  with: login or register to post comments 30092 reads xie  on thu, 11/03/2011 - 20:02
iso 6400 winner: iso 6400 is now immenently usable for many  photo applications.
so the new canon g11 has been announced and people are looking - including me!
please feel free to use the raw file downloads for  making your own assessments in your preferred raw converter.
additionally, the canon 5d mkii occassionally exhibits very light, but visible, banding at this high iso.
but i have been carrying the g10 in my pocket for the past year or so and  it has gotten to be a habit to grab my keys, wallet, a quarter (gotta have some  cash) and the g10.
moncler women jackets can be easily recognized due to unique style and signature logo label.
but again, have a closer look at the original canon 5d vs. the new canon 5d  mkii.
i believe it would actually hold up as well, or better, than anything else on the market at this time.
5x7 prints - a secret weapon digital photography has taken over as the main photographic method today.
winner: the nikon d3x and canon 5d mkii still exhibit  the trademark differences in auto white balance performance.
home nikon d3x vs. canon 5d mkii:
this speaks well for both canon and nikon and the future of image quality  improvements in the full frame format.
all canon camera settings are identical using either the canon 85mm (f/1.8 or f/1.2l) lens in aperture priority at f/1.8 or the canon 50mm f/1.4 lens at f/1.8 with auto white balance on.
moncler down jackets is most definitely one clothes designer which managed to transpose the dream coats of a woman into reality.
so the new canon g11 has been announced and people are looking - including  me!
canon awb tends to  run a bit magenta under tungsten lighting while nikon tends toward yellow.
in my humble opinion, you can't go wrong with either of these cameras.
i think i may prefer the  "texture" of the nikon "grain" (noise).