finding the shutter, aperture, exposure compensation, and iso eventually become second nature.
the weight, while heavier  than d90 was nice and reminded me of the d300 and the d700.
however, they  were easy to figure out once i took a second to look over everything.
pin it related posts: tagged as: 7d, camera, cameras, canon, dslr, nikon, photography, shooting
however if i did not have and understanding of photography fundamentals, i would not be able to use most of them at all.
if i was not so invested in nikon i would consider switching to this camera or its eventual successor.
the metering worked great.
on the 7d from a nikon shooters perspective
paired with the 7d, the camera gave my images a great  softness when shot wide open and the colors were rendered very well.
i am  approaching the camera as anikon shooter.
thanks terrific article!
the seven days i spent with  this gear were phenomenal and educational all at the same time.
the canon 7d has been added to the long list of cameras i have had the  honor of playing with here on the phoblographer and the images are produced  ’with the camera by me’, not ‘by the camera’.
finding  the shutter, aperture, exposure compensation, and iso eventually become second  nature.
http://twitter.com/gservo
this camera would work well in pretty much any style of photography.
well it is nice to see an article emphasizing on the skills of the photographer instead of on the gear.
photographers must find which cameras they are most comfortable with, that is  all.
who is this camera for in my view?
shooting with the 7d was so good and so refreshing and made me feel right at home.
agreed, the camera is just a tool.
the eos 7d, while not as new as other equipment out there, is a refined beast.
the canon 7d has been added to the long list of cameras i have had the honor of playing with here on the phoblographer and the images are produced ’with the camera by me’, not ‘by the camera’.
i understand why people like this camera so  much.
however, we can’t keep doing that unless we have your continued support.
well it is nice to see an article emphasizing on the skills of the  photographer instead of on the gear.
the controls made me feel like right handed person using a left handed  person’s guitar, but they were intuitive enough to get the hang of  quickly.
the canon 7d’s af, with its 19 points was nice, quick, and precise.
i totally agree agree with you: a skilled photographer can produce excellent picture regardless of the brand of the camera.
copyright © 2008–2012 wordpress admin
the camera has great form and function.
normally any nikon vs canon is pretty  heated and for no reason.
normally any nikon vs canon is pretty heated and for no reason.
shooting with the 7d was so good  and so refreshing and made me feel right at home.
please support the phoblographer we love to bring you guys the latest and greatest news  and gear related stuff.
nikon d90 bests canon 7d long term test: canon 7d vs nikon d300s canon and nikon instant rebates available pentax k-5 beats out canon 5d mk ii, 7d, nikon d700, d300s now reviewing: nikon d3s, nikon d3x, nikon d300s and more tagged as: 7d, camera, cameras, canon, dslr, nikon, photography, shooting http://twitter.com/pz7gc3 johan sundström
the effect of the camera on me was mind blowing especially with thecanon 35mm f1.4 and the canon 50mm f1.4.
however, they were easy to figure out once i took a second to look over everything.
the canon 7d was nice piece of gear i would actually consider buying at some point.
compared to the nikon d90, thed7000, d300, and the d700 (my preferred camera  bodies) the camera is a complete joy to hold.
its a really great camera, made me rethink my future camera plans love my 7d. great piece.
rather, this is a camera for a slightly seasoned photographer.
it is a piece of equipment there to help explain visually: textures, structures, living forms, explosion, eruptions, the earth itself.
if i was not so invested in nikon i would  consider switching to this camera or its eventual successor.
i am approaching the camera as anikon shooter.
the phoblographer by gevon servo on december 8, 2011 the canon eos 7d is the most interesting canon camera to me.
this camera would  work well in pretty much any style of photography.
the weight, while heavier than d90 was nice and reminded me of the d300 and the d700.
however if i did not have  and understanding of photography fundamentals, i would not be able to use most  of them at all.
the buttons were felt like they were in weird places.
we can see and capture all these things though these things that are our cameras.
the 35mm f1.4 and the 50mm f1.4 were perfect for coffee photography.
well this is not a camera for beginners.
the effect of the  camera on me was mind blowing especially with thecanon 35mm f1.4 and the canon  50mm f1.4.
these two lenses were selected because they fall in line with my  shooting style and fondness for prime lenses.
rather, this is a camera for a  slightly seasoned photographer.
i totally agree agree with you: a skilled  photographer can produce excellent picture regardless of the brand of the  camera.
it was reviewed here some time ago.
the canon 7d was nice piece of gear i would actually consider  buying at some point.
photographers must find which cameras they are most comfortable with, that is all.
the controls made me feel like right handed person using a left handed person’s guitar, but they were intuitive enough to get the hang of quickly.
on canon vs nikon vs ….
the cameras (no matter what  brand), for all intents and purposes, take fantastic images if used correctly.
the 35mm f1.4 and the 50mm f1.4 were perfect  for coffee photography.
if you would like to purchase any of the items mentioned, please do so by clicking our links first and then purchasing the items as we then get a small portion of the sale to help run the website.
if you would like to purchase any of the items  mentioned, please do so by clicking our links first and then purchasing the  items as we then get a small portion of the sale to help run the website.
however, we can’t keep doing that unless we have  your continued support.
the cameras (no matter what brand), for all intents and purposes, take fantastic images if used correctly.
the canon 7d’s af, with its 19 points was nice, quick, and  precise.
we can see  and capture all these things though these things that are our cameras.
i have not liked every camera i’ve tested.
it is a piece of equipment there to help explain visually: textures,  structures, living forms, explosion, eruptions, the earth itself.
the seven days i spent with this gear were phenomenal and educational all at the same time.
while my nikon d90 was in for repair i was loaned the canon 7d by the one the only chris gampat.
paired with the 7d, the camera gave my images a great softness when shot wide open and the colors were rendered very well.
we love to bring you guys the latest and greatest news and gear related stuff.
compared to the nikon d90, thed7000, d300, and the d700 (my preferred camera bodies) the camera is a complete joy to hold.
my dream camera, the 7d = )
i don’t think i would have appreciated this camera as much three years ago.
canon eos7d  highlights selectable video exposure + frame rates dust & weather resistant 8fps burst mode
on my subjects i chose to take this out on completely random shooting schedule with some  coffee photography sprinkled in.
these two lenses were selected because they fall in line with my shooting style and fondness for prime lenses.
i understand why people like this camera so much.
pingback: changing my street photography shooting style a bit previous post: gservo’s favorite items from 2011 next post: using the carl zeiss 25mm f2 with kodak portra 160 film enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
i don’t think i would have appreciated  this camera as much three years ago.
canon eos7d highlights the camera has great form and function.
i chose to take this out on completely random shooting schedule with some coffee photography sprinkled in.
a nikon shooter’s canon sessions (op/ed) by gevon servo on december 8, 2011 the canon eos 7d is the most interesting canon camera to me.
while my nikon d90 was in for repair  i was loaned the canon 7d by the one the only chris gampat.
the whole brand battle is marketing silliness.