that said, nikon has tuned the d3s’s contrast detection system to provide focusing support during movie capture and live view shooting.
canon eos 1d mark iv :
combined with slight underexposure, the colours seemed more  ‘conservative’ than those captured by the 1d mark iv.
canon must be congratulated for the radical overhaul it has given to the  comparatively clunky autofocusing that hampered the1d mark iii.
having tested both cameras extensively, we have to call this fight a dead heat.
we could nit-pick over this and that
the fact that both cameras were able to deliver this quality of image when shooting at 9 frames per second or more is simply astonishing.
however, images with both cameras shot at iso 12800 were impressive and very usable.
on the following pages, we’ll look at the key  characteristics that make these cameras stand out, and then compare them  head-to-head.
if you’ve read our nikon d3s and canon eos 1d mark iv reviews, you’ll know that both these high-end dslrs have been designed for the same purpose – high-speed photography.
in these shots we took a spot meter reading from the  boxer’s knee.
whennikon revealed the d3s back in october 2009 it wowed the ever-demanding photographic community with astronomically high iso settings.
while it might not boast the impressive pixel count of the mark iv it’s arguably not a camera targeted at the pixel-counting audience, and there are still more than enough pixels to facilitate a tighter crop if needed.
iso 200 nikon d3s iso 200 canon eos 1d mark iv iso 800 nikon d3s iso 800 canon eos 1d mark iv iso 6400
the mark iv performed extremely well too.
both cameras have evolved relatively seamlessly from their predecessors (the d3 and 1d mark iii, respectively), so users already familiar with the canon or  nikon layout will feel instantly at home.
combined with slight underexposure, the colours seemed more ‘conservative’ than those captured by the 1d mark iv.
but at the end of the day, in use, both cameras deliver unparalleled user experience and outstanding image quality in the toughest of shooting situations.
nikon f-mount (with af coupling and af contacts) ef  (excludes ef-s lenses)
as befits such heavy hitters, we tested the cameras in a boxing gym.
stats like this don’t come cheap, but the cameras are also competitive when it comes to price.
both cameras are tough, robust and built with a spec list sure to impress photographers who need accurate high-speed performance they can rely on.
the large pixel pitch and a modified inner structure catapulted nikon to the front of the iso race, with staggeringly impressive low-light performance thanks to an iso range of 200 to 12800.
the d3s boasts a 51-point af system with 15 cross points, and it was fast and effective in our tests.
nikon  d3s vs canon eos 1d mark iv: specs nikon d3s vs canon eos 1d mark iv: metering and exposure both cameras produced images with a good tonality and dynamic range.
while not quite as impressive as images from the d3s, the level of detail and definition captured by the 1d mark iv is still pretty amazing.
the d3s shoots at 9 frames per second (fps), unless you’re using a  nikkor dx lens – then the camera switches to crop mode, and the  frame rate is increased to 11fps.
combine this with the high-spec lenses you would need  to maximise performance and you’re looking at a considerable investment.
so how can you separate them when it  comes to performance?
what distinguishes these cameras from other dslrs is their ability to  capture fast-moving action shots and work in low-light situations.
out of the box thecanon eos 1d mark iv delivered more accurate metering and  colour rendition than the nikon d3s, but the d3s could easily be customised to  compensate for this.
the large pixel pitch and a modified inner  structure catapulted nikon to the front of the iso race, with staggeringly  impressive low-light performance thanks to an iso range of 200 to 12800.
(100% crops of a grey card test shot shown here – click an image to open the original jpeg in a new window.)
nikon d3s vs canon eos 1d mark iv: detail and definition
the 1d mark iv also did a good job of capturing a range of tones correctly in tricky lighting conditions.
vs canon eos 1d mark iv: iso and noise low-light shooting and super-high iso performance appear to be the priority for the manufacturers of both cameras.
the d3s’s 51-point af system was fast and responsive in demanding lighting conditions.
if you’ve read our nikon d3s and canon eos 1d mark iv reviews,  you’ll know that both these high-end dslrs have been designed for the  same purpose – high-speed photography.
we shot our subject under different lighting conditions, with a range of poses and action set-ups.
this page tweet digital camera world digital camera is the world's best dslr magazine, packed with pro  photography, expert tips, video training and the toughest camera reviews.
tags: canon 1d mark iv, canon digital cameras, digital cameras, nikon d3s, nikon digital cameras, pro dslr digital camera is the world's best dslr magazine, packed with pro photography, expert tips, video training and the toughest camera reviews.
even in the  challenging light of a locker room, both cameras’ intelligent metering  systems worked a treat.
frustrated  canon users can now relish themark iv’s awesome performance.
however, images with both cameras  shot at iso 12800 were impressive and very usable.
even in the challenging light of a locker room, both cameras’ intelligent metering systems worked a treat.
the new pro eos badly needed smarter autofocus.
the canon eos 1d mark iv has  a uniquely sized 16.1mp cmos aps-h sensor, which is half way between full frame  and aps-c. this gives a crop factor of x1.3, and while some users might be  disappointed that the camera isn’t full frame, others – especially  sports photographers shooting from the touchline – will find that little  bit of extra reach they can get from their telephoto lenses a real bonus nikon has gone for full-frame, offering a 12.1mp fx cmos sensor.
as a result, they’re targeted at professional photographers, especially those who shoot sports, press photos or wildlife.
these subjects can present some of the most challenging and demanding conditions for photographers to work in.
while images taken at this boosted iso setting are incredibly  noisy, it will facilitate hand-held shooting in near darkness without the need  for a flash.
these subjects can present some of the most challenging and demanding  conditions for photographers to work in.
we  shot our subject under different lighting conditions, with a range of poses and  action set-ups.
both cameras are tough, robust and built with a spec list sure to impress  photographers who need accurate high-speed performance they can rely on.
vs canon eos 1d mark iv: overview nikon d3s vs canon eos 1d mark iv: iso and noise nikon d3s vs canon eos 1d mark iv: autofocus and frame rate nikon d3s vs canon eos 1d mark iv: metering and exposure nikon d3s vs canon eos 1d mark iv: which is best?
this system is less of a radical departure than that of its predecessor, but then unlike the af on the mark iii, it didn’t need significant improvement.
on the following pages, we’ll look at the key characteristics that make these cameras stand out, and then compare them head-to-head.
the  camera produced clean and crisp images despite the fact that it has fewer  pixels.
which is the ultimate high-speed pro digital slr – the nikon d3s or the canon eos 1d mark iv?
using 45 af sensors, 39 of which are the cross-shaped variety, canon has really gone to town with asophisticated system that works a treat, especially when used alongside lenses with a maximum aperture of f/2.8 or faster.
both cameras have evolved relatively seamlessly from their predecessors (the d3 and 1d mark iii, respectively), so users already familiar with the canon or nikon layout will feel instantly at home.
both cameras are outstanding, and it’s unlikely that anyone would be disappointed with their performance and the quality of images they produce.
using 45 af  sensors, 39 of which are the cross-shaped variety, canon has really gone to  town with asophisticated system that works a treat, especially when used  alongside lenses with a maximum aperture of f/2.8 or faster.
read on to find out..
and it probably won’t be long before you see some of these cameras’  staggering features on cameras at the more affordable end of the range.
both shots produced healthy-looking histograms.
this could prove a shrewd decision by nikon, which has anticipated the demands of photographers and sought to combine the best of both worlds with impressive speed and guaranteed quality in equal measure.
so which comes out on top in the battle for the ‘best pro dslr’ title?
whennikon revealed the d3s back in  october 2009 it wowed the ever-demanding photographic community with  astronomically high iso settings.
the good news is that pro technology has a habit of migrating down the ranks, and it probably won’t be long before you see some of these cameras’ staggering features on cameras at the more affordable end of the range.
however, when put next to the  d3s it’s clear to see which camera’s packing the punches.
nikon d3s iso 12800 canon eos 1d mark iv iso 102400
the canon offers a constant 10fps, making  it the winner in the speed stakes.
subscribe now follow digital camera magazine today © 2006 - 2012 future publishing limited, beauford court, 30 monmouth street, bath, uk, ba1 2bw - england and wales company registration number 2008885
while it  might not boast the impressive pixel count of the mark iv it’s arguably  not a camera targeted at the pixel-counting audience, and there are still more  than enough pixels to facilitate a tighter crop if needed.
first of all, let’s look at the sensors.
overview nikon d3s vs canon  eos 1d mark iv: iso and noise nikon d3s vs canon eos 1d mark iv: autofocus and frame rate nikon d3s vs canon eos 1d mark iv: metering and exposure nikon d3s vs canon eos 1d mark iv: which is best?
the good news is that pro technology has a habit of migrating down the ranks,
but  canon fought back, and while in our tests shots taken at the 12800 setting were  equally as usable as those from thed3s, there was definitely more noise.
on paper, both the 1d mark iv and the  d3s offer some truly spectacular features, some of which would have seemed  unthinkable even just a few years ago.
what distinguishes these cameras from other dslrs is their ability to capture fast-moving action shots and work in low-light situations.
the canon offers a constant 10fps, making it the winner in the speed stakes.
we tested the cameras in a variety of set-ups and modes, from the fully auto 3d colour matrix metering on thenikon d3s and evaluative mode on the canon eos 1d mark iv to the spot metering modes on both cameras.
the d3s’s 51-point af system was fast and responsive in demanding  lighting conditions.
it’s fair to say that both cameras are fast enough for most shooting  situations, and while it might be superficial they sound and feel awesome too,  especially when you fire off a round of shots.
when it comes to speed, both of these cameras are pretty spectacular,  especially when usingautofocus in fast-paced continuous shooting situations.
it’s now got 45 af sensors, 39 of which are cross-shaped (horizontal and vertical line detection).
vs canon eos 1d mark iv: autofocus and frame rate fast, accurate focusing combined with a fast frame rate (and generous buffer) is critical for action, press and wildlife photographers, and in this area both cameras performed exceptionally well in our tests, which we carried out under limited indoor light.
the d3s  can record standard hd movies at 720p and 24fps, which is impressive, but not  compared with the 1d mark iv’s full hd 1080p at 29.97fps.
(click an test shot below to open the original jpeg in a new window – please be aware that these are large files.)
tags: canon 1d mark iv, canon digital cameras, digital cameras, nikon d3s,  nikon digital cameras, pro dslr share
put two bruiser dslrs like the d3s and 1d mark iv into the ring and you’re guaranteed a good, clean fight.
digital camera puts these two heavyweights  through a head-to-head test… both the nikon d3s and canon eos 1d mark iv have been designed for the same  purpose – high-speed photography.
it’s noticeable that  the d3s produced images with a more muted colour palette in auto white balance
on paper, both the 1d mark iv and the d3s offer some truly spectacular features, some of which would have seemed unthinkable even just a few years ago.
stats  like this don’t come cheap, but the cameras are also competitive when it  comes to price.
vs canon eos 1d mark iv: specsnikon d3s canon eos 1d mark iv nikon d3s
nikon d3s vs canon eos 1d mark iv:
this could prove a  shrewd decision by nikon, which has anticipated the demands of photographers  and sought to combine the best of both worlds with impressive speed and  guaranteed quality in equal measure.
both are at the top of their game, and unquestionably the best dslrs on the  market for sports and action photographers who demand superb quality,  outstanding performance and super-quick shooting from their gear.
sdhc metering modes: matrix, centre-weighted, spot evaluative,  partial, spot focusing modes: single-servo, continuous-servo, manual one  shot, ai servo af points: 51, including 15 cross-type points 45, inc 39  cross-type points shutter speed: 1/8000 to 30 secs, bulb 1/8000 to 30  secs, bulb iso sensitivity: 200 to 12800 (expandable to 102400) 100 to  12800 (expandable to 50 and 102400)
out of the box thecanon eos 1d mark iv delivered more accurate metering and colour rendition than the nikon d3s, but the d3s could easily be customised to compensate for this.
so which comes out  on top in the battle for the ‘best pro slr’ title?
read on to find  out..
vs canon eos 1d mark iv: iso and noise low-light shooting and super-high iso performance appear to be the priority  for the manufacturers of both cameras.
overview nikon d3s vs canon  eos 1d mark iv: iso and noise nikon d3s vs canon eos 1d mark iv: autofocus  and frame rate nikon d3s vs canon eos 1d mark iv: metering and exposure nikon d3s vs canon eos 1d mark iv: which is best?
vs canon eos 1d mark iv: metering and exposure both cameras produced images with a good tonality and dynamic range.
nikon d3s vs canon eos 1d mark iv: specs
pushed to their extended  limits the nikon performed better, but both were arguably too noisy to be of  much practical use.
however, do this and you’ll lose the camera’s full-frame potential.
while images taken at this boosted iso setting are incredibly noisy, it will facilitate hand-held shooting in near darkness without the need for a flash.
see this pro dslr shootout in the spring issue of digital camera magazine, on sale 6th april.
it’s now got 45 af  sensors, 39 of which are cross-shaped (horizontal and vertical line detection).
nikon d3s vs canon eos 1d mark iv: specs nikon d3s
nikon vs canon autofocus test results… (click an image to open the original jpeg in a new window –  please be aware that these are large files.)
so which comes out on top in the battle for the ‘best pro slr’ title?
in aniso test alone the nikon would come out on top – our test shots show that thed3s delivers better results at higher settings.
both cameras are tough, robust  and built with a spec list sure to impress photographers who need accurate  high-speed performance they can rely on.
it’s fair to say that both cameras are fast enough for most shooting situations, and while it might be superficial they sound and feel awesome too, especially when you fire off a round of shots.
we  tested the cameras in a variety of set-ups and modes, from the fully auto 3d  colour matrix metering on thenikon d3s and evaluative mode on the canon  eos 1d mark iv to the spot metering modes on both cameras.
the 1d mark iv also did a good job of capturing a range of tones  correctly in tricky lighting conditions.
combine this with the high-spec lenses you would need to maximise performance and you’re looking at a considerable investment.
nikon d3s iso 6400 canon eos 1d mark iv iso 12800
both cameras also have a hefty price tag – an rrp of over £4,000 and street prices of £3,600 and £3,850 for the nikon and canon respectively.
both cameras are outstanding, and it’s unlikely  that anyone would be disappointed with their performance and the quality of  images they produce.
it locked on to our subject and effortlessly tracked movement to deliver a set of pleasingly sharp shots.
the  colours captured by the 1d mark iv here are pleasing and vibrant, with greater  warmth than those from the d3s. they were more impressive and natural when  viewed unaltered straight out of the camera.
both cameras are fully decked out with hd video capture features.
lcd monitor: 3-inch colour, 920,000  pixels 3-inch colour, 920,000 pixels drive modes: single, continuous high  speed (9fps), continuous low speed, self-timer, quiet single, silent,  high-speed (10fps), low-speed continuous (3fps), self-timer (2 or 10 secs)
overview nikon d3s vs canon eos 1d mark iv: iso and noise nikon d3s  vs canon eos 1d mark iv: autofocus and frame rate nikon d3s vs canon eos 1d  mark iv: metering and exposure nikon d3s vs canon eos 1d mark iv: which is  best?
the d3s can record standard hd movies at 720p and 24fps, which is impressive, but not compared with the 1d mark iv’s full hd 1080p at 29.97fps.
both of  the images below were shot hand-held.
both cameras can ‘boost’ their high iso performance to a  whopping 102400.
but canon fought back, and while in our tests shots taken at the 12800 setting were equally as usable as those from thed3s, there was definitely more noise.
overview nikon d3s vs canon eos 1d mark iv: iso and noise nikon d3s vs canon eos 1d mark iv: autofocus and frame rate nikon d3s vs canon eos 1d mark iv: metering and exposure nikon d3s vs canon  eos 1d mark iv: which is best?
in aniso test  alone the nikon would come out on top – our test shots show that thed3s  delivers better results at higher settings.
having tested both cameras extensively, we have to call this fight a dead  heat.
the fact that both cameras were able to  deliver this quality of image when shooting at 9 frames per second or more is  simply astonishing.
the camera produced clean and crisp images despite the fact that it has fewer pixels.
if you’ve already bought into a nikon or canon system, the results of  this test will be somewhat academic, as neither camera presents a compelling  reason to switch systems.
however, when put next to the d3s it’s clear to see which camera’s packing the punches.
the d3s boasts a 51-point af system with 15 cross points, and it was fast  and effective in our tests.
nikon vs canon iso test results… the exceptionally high iso performance of both cameras is really good, but there’s definitely more chromatic noise in the1d mark iv images at the high end of the scale.
when it comes to speed, both of these cameras are pretty spectacular, especially when usingautofocus in fast-paced continuous shooting situations.
the new system worked extremely well in these challenging conditions.
vs canon eos 1d mark iv: autofocus and frame rate fast, accurate focusing combined with a fast frame rate (and generous  buffer) is critical for action, press and wildlife photographers, and in this  area both cameras performed exceptionally well in our tests, which we carried  out under limited indoor light.
digital camera puts these two heavyweights through a head-to-head test… both the nikon d3s and canon eos 1d mark iv have been designed for the same purpose – high-speed photography.
both cameras also have a hefty price tag – an rrp of over  £4,000 and street prices of £3,600 and £3,850 for the nikon  and canon respectively.
even if you don’t intend buying either of these cameras, go to your local camera store for a hands-on demo, just to feel and hear the drives in action.
nikon d3s iso 102400 canon eos 1d mark iv nikon d3s vs canon eos 1d mark iv:
posted on tuesday, march 23rd, 2010 at 2:43 pm under reviews.
canon must be congratulated for the radical overhaul it has given to the comparatively clunky autofocusing that hampered the1d mark iii.
the d3s was tested with a nikon af-s 24-70mm f/2.8g ed lens,  and the 1d with a canon ef 24-105mm f/4l is usm.
this system is less of a radical departure than  that of its predecessor, but then unlike the af on the mark iii, it  didn’t need significant improvement.
the colours captured by the 1d mark iv here are pleasing and vibrant, with greater warmth than those from the d3s. they were more impressive and natural when viewed unaltered straight out of the camera.
as a result, they’re  targeted at professional photographers, especially those who shoot sports,  press photos or wildlife.
battery life: 4,300 shots 1,500 shots power supply: li-ion li-ion en-el4a weight: 1,180g body only 1,240g body only transfer: usb 2.0 high  speed, video, pictbridge, hdmi usb 2.0 high speed, video, pictbridge, hdmi software: nikon transfer, nikon view nx digital photo professional, zoom  browser, eos utility, wft, original data security tools, picture style editor,  photostitch nikon d3s vs canon eos 1d mark iv:
pushed to their extended limits the nikon performed better, but both were arguably too noisy to be of much practical use.
so which comes out on top in the battle for the ‘best pro  dslr’ title?
these subjects can present some of the most  challenging and demanding conditions for photographers to work in.
overview nikon d3s vs canon eos 1d mark iv: iso and noise nikon d3s vs canon eos 1d mark iv: autofocus and frame rate nikon d3s vs canon eos 1d mark iv: metering and exposure nikon d3s vs canon eos 1d mark iv: which is best?
even if you don’t intend  buying either of these cameras, go to your local camera store for a hands-on  demo, just to feel and hear the drives in action.
nikon vs canon autofocus test results… (click an image to open the original jpeg in a new window – please be aware that these are large files.)
the d3s was tested with a nikon af-s 24-70mm f/2.8g ed lens, and the 1d with a canon ef 24-105mm f/4l is usm.
stats like this don’t come cheap,  but the cameras are also competitive when it comes to price.
nikon d3s vs canon eos 1d mark iv: head-to-head  review nikon d3s vs canon eos 1d mark iv: head-to-head review dcworld |  reviews | 23/03/2010 14:43pm no comments which is the ultimate high-speed pro digital slr – the nikon  d3s or the canon eos 1d mark iv?
it locked on to our subject and effortlessly tracked  movement to deliver a set of pleasingly sharp shots.
on  paper, both the 1d mark iv and the d3s offer some truly spectacular features,  some of which would have seemed unthinkable even just a few years ago.
see this pro dslr shootout in the spring issue of digital camera  magazine, on sale 6th april.
subscribe now sample issue
on close scrutiny the detail in images from the d3s is impressive.
nikon vs canon iso test results… the exceptionally high iso performance of both cameras is really good, but  there’s definitely more chromatic noise in the1d mark iv  images  at the high end of the scale.
if you’ve already bought into a nikon or canon system, the results of this test will be somewhat academic, as neither camera presents a compelling reason to switch systems.
(click an test shot below to open the original jpeg in a new window  – please be aware that these are large files.)
once you navigate  away from the default settings and start customising the camera to your  specific requirements, the focus performance really comes into its own.
while not quite as impressive as images from the d3s, the level of detail  and definition captured by the 1d mark iv is still pretty amazing.
both cameras can ‘boost’ their high iso performance to a whopping 102400.
it’s noticeable that the d3s produced images with a more muted colour palette in auto white balance mode.
vs canon eos 1d mark iv: specs nikon d3s canon eos 1d mark iv street price: £3,600 £3,850 image sensor: cmos  36×23.9mm nikon fx format (full frame) cmos 27.9×18.6mm focal  length conversion: full frame x1.3 effective pixels: 12.1 million 16.1  million lens mount:
(100% crops of a grey card test shot shown here – click an image to  open the original jpeg in a new window.)
the d3s shoots at 9 frames per second (fps), unless you’re using a nikkor dx lens – then the camera switches to crop mode, and the frame rate is increased to 11fps.
put two  bruiser dslrs like the d3s and 1d mark iv into the ring and you’re  guaranteed a good, clean fight.
however, do this and you’ll lose the  camera’s full-frame potential.
but at the end of the day, in use,  both cameras deliver unparalleled user experience and outstanding image quality  in the toughest of shooting situations.
as a result, they’re targeted at  professional photographers, especially those who shoot sports, press photos or  wildlife.
the canon eos 1d mark iv has a uniquely sized 16.1mp cmos aps-h sensor, which is half way between full frame and aps-c. this gives a crop factor of x1.3, and while some users might be disappointed that the camera isn’t full frame, others – especially sports photographers shooting from the touchline – will find that little bit of extra reach they can get from their telephoto lenses a real bonus nikon has gone for full-frame, offering a 12.1mp fx cmos sensor.
in these shots we took a spot meter reading from the boxer’s knee.
both are at the top of their game, and unquestionably the best dslrs on the market for sports and action photographers who demand superb quality, outstanding performance and super-quick shooting from their gear.
once you navigate away from the default settings and start customising the camera to your specific requirements, the focus performance really comes into its own.
so how can you separate them when it comes to performance?
frustrated canon users can now relish themark iv’s awesome performance.
both of the images below were shot hand-held.
vs canon eos 1d mark iv: which is best?
the d3s might not have the megapixel advantage of the 1d mark iv, but the  detail and definition when zoomed in to 100% is superior.
that said, nikon has tuned the  d3s’s contrast detection system to provide focusing support during movie  capture and live view shooting.
memory: dual slot, compact flash dual slot, compact  flash sd/
this portrait reveals that the d3s can produce decent images with a good  dynamic range and tonality.
this portrait reveals that the d3s can produce decent images with a good dynamic range and tonality.
the d3s might not have the megapixel advantage of the 1d mark iv, but the detail and definition when zoomed in to 100% is superior.