i tried to shoot  almost everything that i would with my dslr: landscapes, street shots, plants,  and even a cup of coffee.
it works with the f mounts lenses i use with  my nikon d90.
thenikon 50mm 1.8d has an aperture ring, which i needed for this camera.
please support the phoblographer we love to bring you guys the latest and greatest news and  gear related stuff.
thenikon 50mm 1.8d  has an aperture ring, which i needed for this camera.
and it’s so true that the concern about wasting film combined with the inability to review the shot makes you much more careful about composition, aperture, and shutter speed.
it was an  interesting learning experience.
it was a journey, ill be shooting more film really soon actually pingback: how shooting film is helping me improve my photography at the phoblographer | gservo's photography pingback: 7 things i do to prepare for a long day of photography at the phoblographer pingback: review: oben ac-1400 4-section aluminum tripod with ba-00 ball head at the phoblographer enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
i first thought about shooting medium format, but then decided to work with gear compatible with my digital gear.
it was an interesting learning experience.
after seeing  chris gampat shoot film and reading about the form, i finally decided to  take the plunge.
it works with the f mounts lenses i use with my nikon d90.
i first thought about shooting medium format, but then decided to work with  gear compatible with my digital gear.
for getting  back to the roots of photography, film.
for my first foray in to slr film photography, i chose the 50mm because i  am comfortable with it, and i have only used it digitally.
if you would like to purchase any of the items mentioned,  please do so by clicking our links first and then purchasing the items as we  then get a small portion of the sale to help run the website.
for my first foray in to slr film photography, i chose the 50mm because i am comfortable with it, and i have only used it digitally.
this inspired me to do this more with my digital photography as well.
if you would like to purchase any of the items mentioned, please do so by clicking our links first and then purchasing the items as we then get a small portion of the sale to help run the website.
the slightest mistake will waste a frame.
it felt like a fine way to refine my photography.
i worried about: what to shoot, what i actually wanted to shoot, and the cost of it all if i messed up.
for getting back to the roots of photography, film.
the camera, a used nikon n2020 from b&h, worked much better than expected.
but otherwise great tale.
which one do i prefer?
my inability to see the shots immediately drove me mad at times.
i remember a story by art wolf on when he was in the himalayan mountains and had to wait until he got home to see what he shot.
the nikon n2020/f501 slr is something i bought because of its features.
*-chris gampat* editor in chief, thephoblographer.com twitter.com/phoblographer facebook.com/thephoblographer
this  inspired me to do this more with my digital photography as well.
film forced me to put more thought into my shots; i couldn’t go shutter-crazy.
when it originally came out, the nikon n2020 was a decently priced entry-level film camera with dual auto focus.
film teaches patience which gave me the ability to really observe the grandeur of the world around you.
join 24 other subscribers the journalist template by lucian e. marin — built for wordpress
what i have learned from film
the phoblographer on google + the phoblographer on tumblr
the slower you proceed, the more you see.
really, really enjoy the color and contrast in the coffee shot!
this year i hit a point in my photography where i had learned a  great deal, but i realized that i needed something to challenge me.
i worried about: what to shoot,  what i actually wanted to shoot, and the cost of it all if i messed up.
film forced me to put more thought into  my shots; i couldn’t go shutter-crazy.
prints in hand, i was amazed all the images developed.
since it isn’t too advanced, the was familiar enough for me as a digital user to get the hang of it.
thanks for reading, glad you enjoyed nice, why f/n 80 as a budget camera it`s also cheap.
the first roll, which recently got developed, came out better than expected.
frankly, i did not decide on a proper film developer though as i went to a basic local printer.
three free preset packages to emulate film in lightroom 3 westlicht museum of photography purchases the international polaroid  collection written by gevon servo january 11th, 2012 at 12:41
here are some more film shots.
it was amazing on  the n2020.
the  slightest mistake will waste a frame.
from research, i knew this kodak film would give me great  color and sharpness.
more over, i think that shooting film is about taking the ultimate chance as well.
digital spoils you with that ability.
it has been re-purposed for shooting when i want to slow down and wander the city looking for arty images.
photography: think simpler with 10 comments why film?
pin it related posts: written by gevon servo january 11th, 2012 at 12:41 am posted in photography tagged with film, film cameras, film photography, kodak, nikon, photography, shooting« review: sigma 105mm f/2.8 ex dg os hsm macro great stuff, thank you.
when it originally came out, the nikon n2020 was a decently  priced entry-level film camera with dual auto focus.
am posted in photography tagged with film, film cameras, film photography, kodak, nikon, photography, shooting « review: sigma 105mm f/2.8 ex dg os hsm macro making  the most of window lighting for your photography » http://twitter.com/iheartfilmphoto
how shooting film is helping me improve my photography with 10 comments why film?
this year i hit a point in my photography where i had learned a great deal, but i realized that i needed something to challenge me.
i tried to shoot almost everything that i would with my dslr: landscapes, street shots, plants, and even a cup of coffee.
however, we can’t keep doing that unless we have your continued support.
from research, i knew this kodak film would give me great color and sharpness.
i  questioned my knowledge and found it tough not being able to look at the image  right away.
however, we can’t keep doing that unless we have your  continued support.
i remember a story by art wolf on when he  was in the himalayan mountains and had to wait until he got home to see what he  shot.
on the camera i chose
for speed, convenience, and cost, digital.
shooting & developing i took my time with the kodak gold 200 because i did not want to  waste any frames.
the camera and film worked well together.
i questioned my knowledge and found it tough not being able to look at the image right away.
i chose the n2020/f501 because, honestly, it felt right.
which probably means that i need to get out of winter photo-hibernation and put myself through film boot camp again… you’ll love it.
it was amazing on the n2020.
frankly, i did not decide on a proper film developer though as i went to a  basic local printer.
this made me want to get everything right in camera the first time.
since it isn’t too  advanced, the was familiar enough for me as a digital user to get the hang of  it.
film teaches  patience which gave me the ability to really observe the grandeur of the world  around you.
the nikon n2020/f501 slr is something i  bought because of its features.
we love to bring you guys the latest and greatest news and gear related stuff.
pin it field review: shooting at a wedding with a mamiya 7 ii and slow film kodachrome may be dead, but color polaroid film is back is the film revival just another fad?
i took my time with the kodak gold 200 because i did not want to waste any frames.
it has been re-purposed for  shooting when i want to slow down and wander the city looking for arty images.
after seeing chris gampat shoot film and reading about the form, i finally decided to take the plunge.
this all helped me to get a good feel for the gear.
the first  roll, which recently got developed, came out better than expected.
my inability to see the shots  immediately drove me mad at times.
the camera, a used nikon n2020 from b&h, worked much better than expected.