a known problem with it though is the color fringing wide open; but this is also a problem that plague’s nikon’s optics as shown in theprevious test.
at this point though, i’d like to remind all the forum readers and  people that like to generally sit there and bitch about minor problems like  this that those issues are generally easily fixed in post-production software.
i set both cameras to aperture priority and focused on the same spot of dennis’s eye.
please support the phoblographer we love to bring you guys the latest and greatest news and  gear related stuff.
pin it related posts: tagged as: 5d mk ii, 85mm f1.8, canon, comparison, d700, nikon, sharpness nikon!
though their meter readings were very slightly off in  aperture priority, it should be noted that in general, canon and nikon do have  slightly different metering algorithms and this is just part of how they work.
pics explain ‘em all http://www.livingsmart.dk kenneth wedmore lund i like the nikon-shots the best, but why are the canon pics so dark?
at this point though, i’d like to remind all the forum readers and people that like to generally sit there and bitch about minor problems like this that those issues are generally easily fixed in post-production software.
however, i’ve always generally felt that nikon gear feels more rugged; but that’s just my personal opinion.
most of new york city is  covered in buildings, and therefore needed to shoot at iso 800 because of the  diffused shadow lighting around the area.
the phoblographer by chris gampat on march 25, 2012 i was recently able to test fire and show a couple of sample images with the new nikon 85mm f1.8 on my d5100, however i also was able to get my hands on a d700.
sigma 85mm f1.4 vs canon 85mm f1.8 lens comparison tagged as: 5d mk ii, 85mm f1.8, canon, comparison, d700, nikon, sharpness frans ma nikon!
chrisgampat i noticed that when i brought them into lightroom.
if you would like to purchase any of the items mentioned,  please do so by clicking our links first and then purchasing the items as we  then get a small portion of the sale to help run the website.
what’s important is the subject matter in focus?
is everything else equal or did the cameras also add to the differences?
but in general, canon tends to underexpose at a  given exposure level.
indeed, it has often been  touted as the company’s fastest focusing lens.
nikon’s front filter thread is just a bit larger than canon’s and  the overall feel of the lens is a bit less plasticy.
the nikon pictures works more brilianter because no back light effect.
in the export process,  they were resized to 1.5mb on export and 300dpi. image samples
the canon ones are pretty alright  on their own, but seen alongside the nikon, they just look way harsher.
if you would like to purchase any of the items mentioned, please do so by clicking our links first and then purchasing the items as we then get a small portion of the sale to help run the website.
i tried to shoot this test during the golden hour.
both lenses focus extremely fast, though in real life practice i felt that canon’s 85mm f1.8 is still the current champ.
i noticed that when i brought them into lightroom.
pics explain ‘em all i like the nikon-shots the best, but why are the canon pics so dark?
the canon images may be darker and therefore also have a perceived better sharpness, but it’s not really true.
nikon f1.8 f2 f2.8 f4 canon f1.8 f2 f2.8 f4
in the export process, they were resized to 1.5mb on export and 300dpi.
the nikon has much more pleasing bokeh.
copyright © 2008–2012 wordpress admin
the canon ones are pretty alright on their own, but seen alongside the nikon, they just look way harsher.
still though, i’d be doing an injustice if i didn’t report on it.
the canon has better (sonnar-like) bokeh.
a known problem with it  though is the color fringing wide open; but this is also a problem that  plague’s nikon’s optics as shown in theprevious test.
let us know in the comments below.
i  stopped at f4 for this test.
but in this test, i let the cameras do all the work at aperture priority to  simulate their metering methods in real life as well.
i set both cameras to aperture priority and focused on the same spot of  dennis’s eye.
spoorthyvemula i am fansinated by how still the guy is in both sets of pics theresa z i also noticed that the canon shots were darker but assumed you had taken  them after the nikon shots and it may have been getting darker out.
the non-round bokeh balls once stopped down doesn’t help either.
the  nikon pictures works more brilianter because no back light effect.
process of the test i tried to shoot this test during the golden hour.
but in this test, i let the cameras do all the work at aperture priority to simulate their metering methods in real life as well.
for this reason when i’m using my nikon cameras, i always usually set the camera to be -1/3 and canon i overexpose by around 2/3 of a stop.
could i have made the exposures the same?
herr_synnberg the nikon has much more pleasing bokeh.
nikon’s front filter thread is just a bit larger than canon’s and the overall feel of the lens is a bit less plasticy.
the  non-round bokeh balls once stopped down doesn’t help either.
being a canon 5d mk ii and 85mm f1.8 usm owner, i decided to put the  two lenses in a non-scientific and totally practical test using all available  light at around 7pm in nyc and only shooting at f4 and wider for a portrait.
indeed, it has often been touted as the company’s fastest focusing lens.
but the nikon seems to be much sharper — looks like the canon is not properly focused or needs a micro-focus adjustment).
both lenses focus extremely fast, though in real life practice i felt that  canon’s 85mm f1.8 is still the current champ.
for this reason when  i’m using my nikon cameras, i always usually set the camera to be -1/3  and canon i overexpose by around 2/3 of a stop.
interestingly, both lens focusing rings feel identical.
for this reason i think the comparison is difficult and not fair.
however, i’ve always  generally felt that nikon gear feels more rugged; but that’s just my  personal opinion.
but the  nikon seems to be much sharper — looks like the canon is not properly  focused or needs a micro-focus adjustment).
i was looking more for clarity at the f stop you had it on.
the new nikon 85mm f1.8 is far  newer than the canon version: which actually dates back to the film days.
typically portraits like this are shot anywhere from wide open to f5.6.
however, we can’t keep doing that unless we have your continued support.
however, we can’t keep doing that unless we have your  continued support.
agreed completely disagree.
also, i was wondering if you did a test with these on manual for those who only shoot on m. thanks, great article.
being a canon 5d mk ii and 85mm f1.8 usm owner, i decided to put the two lenses in a non-scientific and totally practical test using all available light at around 7pm in nyc and only shooting at f4 and wider for a portrait.
previous post: rumor: sony working on “uber-alpha” with square  sensor?
i stopped at f4 for this test.
i was  looking more for clarity at the f stop you had it on.
so how did the two lenses perform?
the images were then brought into lightroom 4 beta and had the clarity and sharpness adjusted the exact same amount for each image.
the new nikon 85mm f1.8 is far newer than the canon version: which actually dates back to the film days.
engels-foto the canon pics have  more sky in the background, for this reason  the comparison is difficult and not fair.
for its 645 system donate to the phoblographer
the canon pics have more sky in the background, for this reason the comparison is difficult and not fair.
battle of the 85mm lenses: canon 85mm f1.8 vs nikon 85mm f1.8 by chris gampat on march 25, 2012 i was recently able to test fire and show a couple of sample images with  the new nikon 85mm f1.8 on my d5100, however i also was able to get my hands on  a d700.
could i have made the  exposures the same?
sigma 85mm f1.4 or canon 85mm f1.8 for portrait photography very quick test: sigma 85mm f1.4 vs canon 85mm f1.2 l (first impressions) can you figure this out?
for its 645 system enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
next post: pentax introduces new 25mm f4 wide-angle lens
pin it samples from the new nikon 85mm f1.8 on the nikon d5100 which one: canon 50mm f1.4 or 85mm f1.8 lens for portrait photography which one?
previous post: rumor: sony working on “uber-alpha” with square sensor?
chrisgampat agreed das completely disagree.
i think the pictures of canon for this reason are darker.
gear used ergonomics both 85mm f1.8 lenses are very similar.
so what are your thoughts?
though their meter readings were very slightly off in aperture priority, it should be noted that in general, canon and nikon do have slightly different metering algorithms and this is just part of how they work.
we love to bring you guys the latest and greatest news and gear related stuff.
this lens for canon is on my list.
both 85mm f1.8 lenses are very similar.
most of new york city is covered in buildings, and therefore needed to shoot at iso 800 because of the diffused shadow lighting around the area.
the light sky works like back light and affects themselves naturally negatively.
nikon’s metering is better.
but in general, canon tends to underexpose at a given exposure level.
the images were then brought into lightroom 4 beta and had the clarity and  sharpness adjusted the exact same amount for each image.
also, i was wondering if you did a test with these on manual for those who  only shoot on m. thanks, great article.
i am fansinated by how still the guy is in both sets of pics i also noticed that the canon shots were darker but assumed you had taken them after the nikon shots and it may have been getting darker out.
the canon images may be  darker and therefore also have a perceived better sharpness, but it’s not  really true.
for  this reason i think the comparison is difficult and not fair.
the light  sky works like back light and affects themselves naturally negatively.