autofocus and exposure the 19-sensor, 11-cross af module is not most densely populated – the a900 has 10 extra hidden ‘tracking assist’ line sensors bringing it up the same total (they are there, they just don’t have screen markings) and its central double cross sensor is technically the best type around.
because  of the new design, all positions found on other cameras from hanging-under to  almost flat on top (r-1 style) are possible except facing forwards and  positioned to the side.
the evf may consume more power (470 images versus 530 per battery official rating) than the big rear screen but i no longer need to switch between the two for menu and function operations.
you have to trust the camera despite the huge range of tones and  light a wide panorama can cover.
placing one camera to each eye, the a77 has an almost 20% larger apparent viewfinder field (linear) than the a55 and about 30% larger than the a700.
the post-processing method offered by nikon and others, where you can apply  similar effects to raw or jpeg files already stored on your memory card and  create a new version, is preferable.
this is required for  the steady shot digital, pixel-shift based movie stabilization which does not  move the sensor like regular ss.
to follow up, i shot a burst then allowed the buffer to write for about 8  seconds before firing again.
there must be some theoretical speed penalty – something must be slowed down by microseconds if you enable these functions.
added after receiving the sandisk extreme pro 16gb 45mb/s card: burst shooting is not extended, using raw it varies from capturing 10 to 12 raw frames at maximum rate, sometimes with a single frame jumped (two groups of 5-6 frames) which never happens with my ordinary transcend 20mb/s card.
to follow up, i shot a burst then allowed the buffer to write for about 8 seconds before firing again.
instead of using the full frame, crop.
it’s problematic, because the point of image magnification is to accurately manual focus, and this is just as needed in dof preview as in straight focus.
i simply leave it on the matrix multi-zone  setting.
it is disabled andyou  can’t take still shots at all if the dial is in this position.
and i was shooting at 5fps.
there are hints of the 700 and also some memories of the dynax 7xi present in  the sculpturing of the body.
and it has face detection which really works, because this is a live view camera 100%.
this shows a ‘busy’ finder display – in fact, everything overlaid on the photo here can be turned off leaving just the active focus point (a single one, if you use centre spot focus) and the neat information bars above and below the image area.
without flash, it really is possble to focus in the dark and the evf does a very grainy but usable job as a night vision viewer too.
we had to check it, but although you can set the drive state, including self-timer, doing so has no effect on movie shooting.
panorama speed mystery there’s something i don’t understand about the raw, file and  buffer handling of the alpha 77.
i would expect the shutter release to be operational with the mode dial set to movie, so that stills could be captured.
everything else prior to sony was minolta because km simply never made any, or if they did, it amounted to no more than a box label change.
here’s a neat touch – as long as you have a lens with no mf/af  switch on it, you can set m focus on the body selector, and pressing the af/mf  button will do autofocus for you, letting it go will lock the focus back to  manual.
for standard hdr shots on sony’s current models, a normal jpeg is saved along with the three-shot hdr and that’s good.
clearly panorama shooting is data intensive one way or another.
the internal pop-up flash (gn12) has the usual range of first, second  curtain, fill-in, off, auto options; ttl pre-flash, adi, and also manual power  control down to 1/16th which can be useful for triggering slave flashes if you  don’t have a cable or a wireless trigger (and minolta shoe adaptor).
raw files are unaffected, and i  don’t know if this information is used to enable better panoramas but  that would be a practical fringe benefit.
you will need to buy software to do so.
to those who say it looks a bit like a canon, yes,  it’s true that canon design has caught up with 1990s minolta style in the  last couple of years… conclusion from the initial press meeting with sony, where cameras were prototypes and  the images were not allowed to be shown, i decided that if i could work for a  year with the alpha 55 and have no problems then thealpha 77 was a safe  investment.
it must be two years ago, at least, that an australian sports photographer confided he had seen a sony prototype which would blow away everything – an alpha which could shoot at incredible frame rates (he mentioned 15fps) and follow focus.
if you plug an hdmi monitor in to the camera, that will take over providing a better solution for studio or video previewing.
you can not configure the directionality of the two control wheels, as you can with nikon, and for some reason i have always tried to open or close the aperture by taking the wrong directione.
with 15,000 finished images stored on my  system everything which helps me identify them is valuable.
it’s not so much the noise that is  reduced, it’s the overall quality of the image which improves.
the drive mode had to be  reset to get it out of this tangle.
select the highest quality avchd 2.0 formats  (the camera will warn you) and you may not be able to play them, burn them to  disc other than blu-ray, or import them into hd movie editing with programs  like appleimovie.
the dedicated movie mode
you can not change the function of the finder/lcd manual switch button, the drive mode, the white balance or the exposure override.
then you can read both.
the rest of the field is dead black too, not milky grey like the alpha 55, and the contrast is high.
the a77 finder really does go to sleep (the a55 is very good at failing to switch off) and wakes up so rapidly, as your eye approaches the finder, you don’t miss the shot.
flash the alpha 77 has a proper, threaded, high grade studio flash sync terminal  as well as the usual minolta i-type hot shoe.
the a77 movie function does not permit any such choice and may block all shooting by occupying the buffer to card writing process for many seconds.
the overall design and balance of the alpha 77 are as good as any alpha i’ve used.
the microphone under its unusual top grille seems less prone to wind noise than most dslrs; the wind noise reduction feature, a bass cut filter, is additionally effective.
the help (?) button can also not be customised, which if you  don’t want potted hints and tips makes it redundant in shooting mode,  though it serves as the trash button when reviewing images.
you’ll get  around 18 normal small jpegs (6 megapixels, lowest quality) at 10 to 12fps  before the rate slows down to an erratic 3fps with occasional half to one  second pauses.
so, after a couple of weeks, i began to realise that the a77 was giving an even lower failure-rate than the a55.
i come from the nikon d300 until the a77 cameout.
more ‘only for fun’ stuff includes soft focus, selective colour against mono (called ‘partial color’), toy camera, miniature effect, two monochrome looks including one which uses three exposures, ‘pop color’, posterization, retro photo, soft high key.
a side benefit of setting movie mode on the dial is that your view through the finder is cropped correctly to the hd area before you start filming, which makes composition easier – see below.
it will be another year before i know just how wise the decision to go with evf slt models has been.
this issue will also affect the behaviour of the auto lens correction register, which in our body does not have any effect on the cz 16-80mm for example but does correct the new 16-50mm.
i am shooting at iso 1600-2500, 1/640 and a 2.8 aperture, using the tamron 70-200 lens.
and this is a 100% pixel level view of that shot without any post processing.
the new tilt, hinge, flip, swivel and cartwheel rear screen is just great  for the few times i need to use it.
in theory you get 13 raw or 11 raw+jpeg frames before the camera slows down, and it looks as if the buffer must hold about 320mb.
any one individual lens may have sluggish diaphragm, indeed a common cause of overexposure in all a-mount lenses is incomplete stop-down.
an example of gps map location from media pro and google maps –  click on the image for a full size screen shot.
on the a77 for video it was auto-set to between f/2.8 and f/4 in low light.
face detection kept the focus on photographer paul cooper (right) accepting the president’s ribbon of the mpa from henk van kooten (left) despite henk’s focus-target jacket moving into the foreground of the af zones.
the 12fps c-af setting forced the sigma 70-200mm to be at  f/3.5, two thirds of a stop down from full aperture, but also gave a shutter  speed of 1/6400th.
click image for 1000 pixel version click image for 1000 pixel 100% size clip from acr processed version  (my density choice) click image for capture one pro 100% clip from raw (ditto) click image for in-camera processed (jpeg fine, low level of nr) 100%  clip (camera’s density)
animation of three hand-held frames, cropped from a sigma 70-200mm shot  taken at 70mm, showing how 12fps captures very fast action in relatively small  steps.
and then there’s the rear screen.
the alpha 65 and 77 are the only dslr/t cameras so far made which use the  ush-1 sdxc specifiction to allow writing data at this kind of rate.
if you are relatively normal you can leave this well alone.
does canon eos-1d x point the way?
because the body is weatherproofed, the flash shoe cover is a softer plastic type which seals tightly.
lenses which enables the lens correction function (vignetting, chromatic  aberration and distortion) for in-camera jpegs.
here’s a neat touch – as long as you have a lens with no mf/af switch on it, you can set m focus on the body selector, and pressing the af/mf button will do autofocus for you, letting it go will lock the focus back to manual.
after being hooked on raw for so many years i don’t see much difference processing in lightroom with jpg format instead.
this lens would actually give you as much pixel-level detail of a player as a nikon d700 used with a 70-200mm lens set to 200mm, on your a77.
the a77 reduces the world to simpler tones and connects you to shapes, composition and impact.
where that leaves the intermediate 64 and 80 settings on the camera we can only guess.
this creates three groups of sensors left centre and right which act like mini wide zones.
see my section on the movie mode later on, though… the slt mirror and ghosting i’ve tested the alpha 77 in the most demanding lighting conditions.
animation of three hand-held frames, cropped from a sigma 70-200mm shot taken at 70mm, showing how 12fps captures very fast action in relatively small steps.
for any of the picture effect post-processes, even multishot, no standard result is saved – all you get is the processed file, after a wait of 10 seconds or considerably less.
but i use the teleconvertor built in as well.
so it’s almost a spare button, given that there’s also an af/mf switch on ssm/sam lenses and a body af/mf/s/a/c switch too.
the shooting information is set neatly outside the image, not overlaid at the edge overlapping picture detail.
adobe gripe – it’s long overdue for bridge to have a gps map function whenlightroom does.
i tested this lens first on the canon 50d (15 megapixels) and it wasn’t sharp wide open on that, but had a distinct slightly coloured, slightly coma-smeared halo to the detail.
now that all of these are cross-type,  there is no compulsion to stick with the centre and recompose, but it’s a  habit hard to lose.
for any of the picture effect post-processes, even  multishot, no standard result is saved – all you get is the processed  file, after a wait of 10 seconds or considerably less.
in your prime, you want to set twenty different things for every shot and switch from p to a to s to m with c or s or a and -2 sharpness and ten stop hdr then portrait look for the next one.
the alpha 77 has loads of buttons despite sony’s one-time insistence that they planned to have fewer mechanical components in future.
even when the camera is asleep (power save mode) the sensor must still be receiving and handling the image, as the exposure display will change when you move the camera around.
the important thing for studio flash users is that you can set 1/125 at f/16 with modelling lights, and see a normal finder view not a black hole.
it  seems there’s some additional information chipped into some but not all
zone identifies  the zone with the most focused points, then works within this area.
so far the adjustable lcd screen.
in yet other makes, you can shoot a still but lose two seconds during  the movie.
they include multi-shot modes (combining tonal range for hdr, or reducing noise for low light and high iso) and in-camera post processing effects.
you can switch the preview and smart teleconverter buttons between two functions each only.
but what is a konica minolta lens?
this will give you best transfer of a focused point between the three zones, but they are all relatively central.
even better, continue to shoot just like you do but abandon the zoom lens.
in the movie position on the mode dial you might believe you can use the self-timer.
adobe gripe – it’s long overdue for bridge to have a  gps map function whenlightroom does.
what use is that, with less dynamic range than 100?
the oddest incompatibility is the manual’s statement that front curtain shutter should not be set on on for ‘konica minolta’ lenses (added note – see comments at the end of this article, some discussion of this).
it is not as necessary to pan with the subject every time to get more than one shot.
body handling noise is present, so is lens focus noise.
the a77 movie function does not permit any such choice and may block  all shooting by occupying the buffer to card writing process for many seconds.
no doubt this will change with updates, but right now apart from sony’s pc-onlypicture motion browser (they have now had half a decade to port it to mac) there are few programs which can recognise the 1080/50 or 60p 28mbps format and even fewer which edit it.
as for the instant movie button, it’s not in the best place – a  long thumb reach for on and off actions to start and end clips and the placing  tends to make me tilt or move the camera needlessly.
what the movie icon means is that you gain access to manual  control of iso, shutter and aperture.
unlike the standard range of hdr settings, this is  far from being a straight image and the lack of a raw file or normal jpeg to  back it up means it’s only for fun.
canon hasn’t managed to match it (quite).
but there is one consistency, to turn any camera on the movement is always from left to right – whether alpha 100, 700, 900 and whether the switch is rotary or a slider.
contrast peaking provides a usually adequate alternative, but still this seems rather arbitrary behavior, and makes the dof preview useless except for people with stupendous vision.
in this model, when no gps signal can be detected on power up, the camera simply turns off gps embedding (on the a55, it uses the last co-ordinate).
but if you are out and about, the last position may be shown on some pictures.
so don’t bank on this function fixing jpegs from your ‘heritage’ of early sony glass!
buffer to card writing is reduced to around 10 seconds from around 20, but at least with this extra card speed, there is no way to extend the approximate 1 second unbroken raw shooting burst.
the alpha 77 is a successor to the alpha 700.
but what you won’t see until the moment you press the movie button is the working hd movie area.
there are some of these jpeg-only modes i feel comfortable with.
there must be some  theoretical speed penalty – something must be slowed down by microseconds  if you enable these functions.
i am not so worried about low light, high iso as i first thought.
the a77 biases towards avoiding overexposure.
i am baffled by sony’s indecision about on/off switch design, the  camera labelling is the reverse of the alpha 55/33/35 or 580/560 etc, though  the action is the same.
a side benefit of setting movie  mode on the dial is that your view through the finder is cropped correctly to  the hd area before you start filming, which makes composition easier –  see below.
smile shutter is also possible.
af works best in this range.
these are not in the warning list  and all seem to work well, even though they do not work reliably with the alpha  55.
this lug and triangle-ring design,  as opposed to the slot-type strap fixing of the lesser camera bodies, is always  a clue that the structure is based on a good solid metal skeleton.
if you set your a77 to shoot extra fine jpeg and use the small file size (6 megapixels) you will actually be getting, detail for detail, exactly as good an image as the d700/d3s can produce – and at that setting, you can use 6400 iso if you want and it will look ok.
and if you want to work at a smaller aperture than f/6.3 – say f/16  for a deep focus effect with a superwide lens – then af simply would not  work at all.
iso 3200,  70-300mm ssm g lens.
it is disabled andyou can’t take still shots at all if the dial is in this position.
not ancient pc friendly?
in speed priority ae mode (the 12fps setting on the mode dial) the focus is  locked before frame 1 if you have the camera set to single (s) af, but in  exchange for this, you can set both the iso and the aperture.
along with exposure simulation, there should be no reason why your shot  ever goes wrong.
they are all usable  without much effort or worry, hand-held.
a warning about not setting micro af adjustment with third party lenses is given, as usual.
it also makes the a77 finder view an almost perfect match for nikon’s full frame dslrs, which have a slightly smaller apparent screen size than the a900.
it is not as necessary to pan with the subject every time to get more  than one shot.
it includes the 18-250mm hsm os, which we have.
don’t want ever to see the horizon level guage?
being stopped down a little  improved the 24mm’s accuracy.
of course this is great.
my final version of this shot is not saved to 24 megapixels, i use the 17.5 megapixel export option in adobe camera raw for a 50mb finished image as i find this small reduction improves the noise/sharpness significantly.
i shot at 1/2000th and f/5.6 (wide open) on the nex-5 last month.
given the very fast response time  (1/20th of a second) and high speed of the system (1/250th flash sync,  1/8,000th shutter) the only thing i can think of would be the speed of aperture  closing action.
the 12fps ultra high speed shooting mode is only accessible through the mode dial.
i do not mean it isliterally spot metering.
above is a full frame of an action shot with sigma 70-300mm os lens, 70mm, f/8, a77, iso 800, 1/1250th.
audio notations attached to images are popular with travellers and  journalists.
i’d guess this is a low power mode which also enables the system to continue to monitor exposure between frames during sequence shooting.
one comment (added after this was first published) – the a55/33/35 may be considered better in very low light.
after my tests of the high speed shooting functions, i conclude that to  cover some sports events well you would need a pair of alpha 77s, or the 77 and  some other camera – and you would need to keep a close eye on the card  writing light.
this would also mean earlier minolta lenses, not just km, might produce  overexposure (aperture still not fully closed when exposure commences) or  uneven exposure (aperture continues to close down during part of the electronic  progressive gate-opening).
for one of the horse racing tests, i shot one burst of frames and as the camera slowed down, two horses fell and two jockeys were injured, one requiring a stretcher.
i think my problem might be in the focus area.
this will give you over or under exposure if the focus point hits a dark or light area.
in near darkness, its shows very strong noise, mainly red, which largely obscures any visible detail.
but you don’t get anything like the same continuous shooting capability as past models even if you knock the jpeg size right down.
the 24 megapixel file gives plenty of scope for reducing to a smaller final result.
the background and a combination of leaping dolphins and water have not shifted the focus.
here’s another sequence, this time as stills without the annoying  animation you can’t turn off
how could the processor and the buffer somehow handle the throughput of the wide panorama with at least double the number of continuous burst frames i could get with even the smallest jpeg – and then do all the computing to assemble the panorama and write it to card, leaving me ready to shoot immediately?
don’t lose this shoe cover or swap it for one of your others.
this would also mean earlier minolta lenses, not just km, might produce overexposure (aperture still not fully closed when exposure commences) or uneven exposure (aperture continues to close down during part of the electronic progressive gate-opening).
i would guess  ‘correctable’ lenses have extra information, older and third party  lens won’t.
the 28mm f/2.8 is the most obvious example,  the 50mm f/1.4 another.
clearly the cmos sensors are responsible for whatever level of detail is visible, and the a55 sensor seems to me have a couple of stops more lift to tones on the threshold of its sensitivity.
and many minolta lenses became sony lenses while retaining a heritage right back to pre-d days or the origins of the af system itself.
no cameras in this class has ever achieved 12fps, let alone at 24 megapixels.
the one ‘tonal range’  adjustment which does operate in raw+jpeg mode, though only the jpeg is  changed, is the dro or dro+ setting which uses a single shot.
sound there is no provision for audio notes or audio only recording, which is a bit of a waste of built-in functions as this would be possible and can be useful.
while i think that the gps on the a77 has so far proved faster in locking and more accurate in positioning than the a55, it’s hard to quantify as i have not used both together for long enough in difficult locations.
it claims to be  weatherproof, and having nearly broken that thumnbnail off opening the flash  sync cover  i do believe the seal is tight.
in my studio with powerful flash – which this camera can cope with perfectly, having a setting to over-ride exposure simulation in the evf/screen and do auto gain for modelling lights – it gives me an extra stop instead of being forced to work at a setting like f/13 or get overexposure.
i was unable to get any pictures of the incident as it happened, and by the time the alpha 77 was able to shoot again, the ambulance crew was on the track.
the menus of the a77 require the attention to website presentation detail best reserved for the galley-slaves* ofdpreview.
you can also set these if you use manual focus.
for focus  tracking with viewfinder, the 1d x is limited to 12fps.
this light is extreme, and the patches of sun and reflection are placed exactly where the alpha 55 tended to produce flare.
how could the processor and the buffer  somehow handle the throughput of the wide panorama with at least double the  number of continuous burst frames i could get with even the smallest jpeg  – and then do all the computing to assemble the panorama and write it to  card, leaving me ready to shoot immediately?
it looked grey and flat, but surprisingly detailed and bright into shadows which were too dark to penetrate by eye.
this is what the hd movie viewfinder field switches to when the movie button is pressed (slightly re-composed horizontally but not cropped at all).
that’s because they are not available if you shoot either raw or  raw+jpeg.
i’m pretty sure this is why the warning is made, and that singling out konica minolta lenses is an error.
it includes the  18-250mm hsm os, which we have.
i decided i would shoot the front runners going over a hurdle, get my 12fps burst, then do a few seconds of movie of the stragglers who reach the spot a few seconds later.
i would question whether the new 16-50mm, used wide  open, is a ‘good enough’ lens – let alone the 18-55mm sam  also being offered as a kit lens.
panorama speed mystery there’s something i don’t understand about the raw, file and buffer handling of the alpha 77.
why would an electronic front curtain produce overexposure or inconsistent  exposure only with konica minolta lenses?
every point is equally sensitive down to ev–2 (iso 100 with f/1.4 lens) and up to ev17.
the fn button accesses all the parameters you can’t reach directly through any custom button (like setting the auto iso range) and most that you can (like face detection).
in the movie position on the mode dial you might believe you can use the  self-timer.
this does not mean  it has changed, like some canon models, to be incapable of shootingunplanned movie clips – you can do this at the press of a button, like other  sony models.
to confuse  things, some of these konica minolta like the 18-70mm, 18-200mm and 75-300mm  became sony lenses without a single substantial change.
or it may have been an early experiment.
the auto iso multi-shot mode, multi-frame noise reduction, captures six  frames and creates one jpeg.
- david kiipatrick please read the comments for some notes on corrections, which i will  continue to make.
everything else prior to sony was minolta because km simply never made any,  or if they did, it amounted to no more than a box label change.
added note: the canon 1d x has now  bettered this record high speed shooting by providing 14fps.
now that all of these are cross-type, there is no compulsion to stick with the centre and recompose, but it’s a habit hard to lose.
when this was microsoft expression media 2 it has its own virtual earth window, but now it’s been taken over by phase one, that has been replaced by auto-opening a web browsergoogle earth window.
like the alpha 700 and 900 (and  unlike the consumer level cameras, including the alpha 580) it can have the  hvl-f58am or 43am wireless control capable flash mounted on the camera to  control group/channel wireless strobes with power ratio.
video af happens at the actual working aperture, not wide open like still af.
the display button can not be customised and only serves to cycle through display setups – but you can customise those, and thus what the button does for you (above, menu to set which finder display states you wish to cycle through, ticked).
it has the proper strap-lug fixed into  the mag alloy casting, like the 700 and 900.
hate the graphic display of f-number and shutter speed scales against each other?
the evf may consume more power (470 images  versus 530 per battery official rating) than the big rear screen but i no  longer need to switch between the two for menu and function operations.
the viewfinder is a pleasure to use, though evfs differ from  optical screens in one important respect, that the eye can not compensate for  small errors in the dioptre setting.
i don’t really need to see maps at raw file stage, but it could help with filenames.
i tried one technique, shoot 2, 3, 4, 6 frames with brief pauses – as if catching different moments of an event, in bursts.
the horse was galloping at 2.5 clops per second
what i find simply amazing is the speed of this camera.
using the a900 alongside the a77, i was struck by the way the a900 puts you in touch with texture, colour, subtle light, and fine details.
the most important change for professional and enthusiast owners is the  long-overdue addition of a menu item which prevents the evf or lcd live view  from showing actual exposure when manual aperture and shutter are set.
but there is  one consistency, to turn any camera on the movement is always from left to  right – whether alpha 100, 700, 900 and whether the switch is rotary or a  slider.
this picture was taken using a setting i quickly discovered is just perfect for news, pr, presentations and images needed quickly from events – the small jpeg in camera, with dro enabled, at iso 3200.
the evf warns me if it’s going to bias too much to the focus point.
our colour version, using a finder overlay file supplied by sony, gives an accurate view of what looking through an a77 finder is like.
it does not  work with the 18-55mm sam.
and here, below, is a 100% crop from the original iso 800 raw file  processed using adobe camera raw 6.5 (sharpness 50, radius 0.5, detail 0,  masking 0; luminance nr 25, luminance detail 50, same from chroma nr)
the 1200-zone metering has correctly placed the  baby’s white clothes in the value range 250 to 254 rgb.
their annual dinner happened just a week after i got my alpha 77.
what exactly is happening here?
the new tilt, hinge, flip, swivel and cartwheel rear screen is just great for the few times i need to use it.
this 30%, by the way, means  the light reaching the sensor is reduced not by the 1/3rd to 1/2 a stop  sometimes mentioned, but by .6 of a stop or nearly 2/3rds of a stop.
but this type of viewfinder has a specific limitation.
but thats all i ever used anyways.
but in the alpha 77 it appears to be allocated buffer and processing power which is denied to more useful motordrive sequence shooting.
do not worry if you format or change cards, once in the camera the assist.dat file is copied to internal gps memory.
the same would apply to many third party lenses.
i don’t really need to see  maps at raw file stage, but it could help with filenames.
no provision for fixed gain is made – auto level  or gain is always on.
the sony/minolta is very sharp centrally at 25ft or beyond wide open, but gets worse the closer you focus.
each race gave me just two chances to shoot a burst so i’m afraid that testing every single setting combination on the camera was not possible.
at 5fps, the second frame would have the horse leaving the right-hand  edge.
they include multi-shot modes (combining tonal range for hdr, or  reducing noise for low light and high iso) and in-camera post processing  effects.
a caveat to movie shooters.
clearly panorama shooting is data  intensive one way or another.
the manual does make it clear that by front curtain shutter sony means no front  curtain shutter.
what is not so limiting as the a55 or the earlier nex models is the speed of startup from sleep.
when it is off, you are using the physical front curtain, the blades uncover the sensor to start the exposure.
i worked with the 24mm f/2 ssm carl zeiss for a while, and this lens does not find focus easily in low light with any camera.
while i think that the gps on the a77 has so far proved faster in locking  and more accurate in positioning than the a55, it’s hard to quantify as i  have not used both together for long enough in difficult locations.
the manual focus restriction placed by using the manual movie mode is necessary despite the howls of protest it’s produced from those who don’t understand the technology involved.
it could have done this somewhere quiet, on its own, without spectators.
select the highest quality avchd 2.0 formats (the camera will warn you) and you may not be able to play them, burn them to disc other than blu-ray, or import them into hd movie editing with programs like appleimovie.
(see comments at the end of the article for some more precise figures on the mirror split provided by dr daniel oi).
ps i traded what i had for the sony a77 and a sal 88
i have tried at f/3.5 and for every clip which has a smooth focus transition, there will be another where the ssm, sam, hsm or plain old screw drive makes a sudden shift.
your original card does  not have to be present.
autofocus and exposure the 19-sensor, 11-cross af module is not most densely populated – the  a900 has 10 extra hidden ‘tracking assist’ line sensors bringing it  up the same total (they are there, they just don’t have screen markings)  and its central double cross sensor is technically the best type around.
dxo labs tests actually say that colour depth, tone depth, dynamic range and signal to noise ratio are all at their best if you set iso 50, but they also show that iso 50 is really iso 63 overexposed a bit and iso 100 is really iso 80 underexposed a bit.
all of these are irreversible real time post processing.
if you set the focus mode to c (continuous) then both ae and af continue  during shooting.
it will be another year before i know just how wise the decision to go with  evf slt models has been.
the playback also  can’t be customised, nor can the menu button (which can return to last  used or top by setting a preference), nor the top lcd illuminator button.
i simply leave it on the matrix multi-zone setting.
with 7fps it gets better, 8fps or 10fps still better and with 12 fps you reach the point where four different positions of the legs are recorded.
because of the way the camera handles bursts  of frames and buffering, it would be useful to be able to shoot normally in any  mode (single frame, or other continuous speed) and switch to 12fps by holding  down or toggling a button (preferably holding down, say, the af/mf lock  reassigned for this purpose).
i have turned off image review.
the direction is the reverse of the nex-5.
someone needs to write a book for this camera but the manual in pdf form comes in handy also i like the review david put forth as well.
it may have 1,200 metering zones on the cmos sensor but it will bias strongly towards correct exposure at the point or points of focus, especially if the central point coincides with a very bright are.
it was informative, but not particularily encouraging.
like the alpha 700, the alpha 77 has magnesium alloy body shell combined with other metal and plastic components.
and, in reverse, you can not initiate a movie while the card write light is  on.
iso (next to the shutter)
i  worked with the 24mm f/2 ssm carl zeiss for a while, and this lens does not  find focus easily in low light with any camera.
shoot at iso 1600 and get a sigma 85mm f/1.4 or if you can afford it, a sony cz 85mm f/1.4.
with some hd-movie systems, you actually shot a still frame during the movie and lose nothing except a couple of movie frames; with others, you can end the movie by pressing the shutter and capturing a still.
given the very fast response time (1/20th of a second) and high speed of the system (1/250th flash sync, 1/8,000th shutter) the only thing i can think of would be the speed of aperture closing action.
a dark subject at the central focus point does not seem to brighten the image the same way a very light subject, like a screen, darkens it.
you can not configure the directionality of the two control wheels, as you  can with nikon, and for some reason i have always tried to open or close the  aperture by taking the wrong directione.
default movie apertures range between f/3.5 (typically set on fast lenses) and f/6.3 (well, with an f/6.3 zoom lens there is little choice).
i was confident enough to risk taking all my press and pr shots on the new camera.
it has the proper strap-lug fixed into the mag alloy casting, like the 700 and 900.
and, in reverse, you can not initiate a movie while the card write light is on.
the a77 gave a contrasty screen or finder image with little useful detail, nothing in the shadows, and very strong noise.
canon’s 1d mkiv is better but in an entirely different price bracket.
i’d noticed this on the a55, which, as opposed to the a580, also has this “feature.”
it can also use hss (burst flash with shutter speeds up to 1/8,000th and corresponding power attenuation).
but since the 18-55mm sam, 55-200mm mk2 sam, and 18-250mm (an old design relatively) are in the release firmware along with the 16-50mm ssm maybe there’s no info in the lenses themselves, and future firmware will add more.
added after receiving the sandisk extreme pro 16gb 45mb/s card: burst  shooting is not extended, using raw it varies from capturing 10 to 12 raw  frames at maximum rate, sometimes with a single frame jumped (two groups of 5-6  frames) which never happens with my ordinary transcend 20mb/s card.
bottom line, the a55 is half way to night vision; the a77 is like turning on an old uhf analogue colour tv, no signal, just noise.
the slt mirror of the 77 diverts 30% of light to the af module, but this is actually more than the old semisilvered patch and double mirror system used to let through in slrs.
i dont know why sony choosed to do this… i would like to buy a65 again, but if i do, i cant go to a newer firmware!
just remember you are looking at a section of an image something between 6ft and 8ft wide, it’s very easy to view a tiny clip like this as if it was just another digital image.
why would an electronic front curtain produce overexposure or inconsistent exposure only with konica minolta lenses?
i don’t think i move that far in 15 seconds .
you can cycle through these displays or choose to skip one or more
i’m pretty sure this is why the warning is made, and that singling  out konica minolta lenses is an error.
the important thing for  studio flash users is that you can set 1/125 at f/16 with modelling lights, and  see a normal finder view not a black hole.
subscribe to our magazine too!
perhaps they include the dead space not used for the image but for data.
the evf warns me if it’s going to bias too much to the focus  point.
to improve your gps, download this file: http://control.d-imaging.sony.co.jp/gps/assistme.dat create a folder on your sd card inside the private/sony directory and call it gps.
shoot any  higher quality movie beyond a mere blip on the button, and you can’t fire  a still frame for some seconds.
if you really want to shoot af movies at f/2.8 on  a 200mm lens, try by all means.
crop any size you want, from 6 to 24 megapixels.
if you enable image review, the slt cameras slow down.
and access to gps map  location helps me decide filenames, then later on input metadata for caption,  keywords, description, and much more.
50% would  be one stop.
roxio offers similar pc utilities.
the external mic socket provides 5v phantom power for popular condensor mics, and is stereo too.
do not worry if you format or change cards, once in the camera  the assist.dat file is copied to internal gps memory.
sony state 15 seconds or more to acquire or change position, and variable  accuracy due to gps being a us military provision which can be subject to  deliberate degrading.
so its a firmware problem…not hardware.
but what you won’t see until the moment you press the movie button is  the working hd movie area.
the only slowdown is the time you take to press the central controller button to register an subject for tracking.
there is one button you may want to modify if you own lenses with a focus hold button.
rather too distant heron, shot using the 2x smart converter for jpegs  (this is actually a clip from a raw file processed in acr to match).
because the sensor is feeding image data to an analysing computer, face recognition and object tracking can be linked to the af.
it also has +5 to -5 ev exposure compensation compared to the a700′s+/-3ev(a900 – 3ev, expanded to 5ev by later firmware, but the 700 was never improved – see comments, originally i referred to a900 as 3ev either way, as that’s in the manual).
visit the assist.dat download once a month or more often to keep your gps working with the fastest and most accurate lockon and co-ordinates.
i have found it more comfortable to use without specs, so they spend too much time perched on my head, hanging from my collar or stuffed into a pocket.
although i could have shot further (faltering) still frames, movie shooting was blocked out with a warning message telling me ‘writing to memory card – unable to operate’.
this is what the hd movie viewfinder field switches to when the movie  button is pressed (slightly re-composed horizontally but not cropped at all).
i’ve only found one lens recently which is truly sharp at f/2.8 and 200mm in this class, and that is the latest nikon vr design.
ours does not seem to have any issues at all on  our a77 with firmware 1.03.
i’ve also tested the 8-16mm and 100-300mm os,  70mm macro and 70-200mm f/2.8 hsm macro mkii.
both are between the lens and the sensor and both are plane clear optical elements.
like the alpha 700, the alpha 77 has magnesium alloy body shell combined  with other metal and plastic components.
i could have perhaps picked another detail with slightly  more punch, and looking at all the shots, my prefocused point was actually  about 1 metre behind the horse (if the af refocused during this sequence, i  can’t see any evidence in the images).
the af sensor itself may not be any more sensitive, it’s simply getting a much better image feed.
but  having eleven cross sensors does more good in practice.
if you own an a55/33/35 then the new finder is so far removed it might as well be an entirely different era, not just a generation.
high speed shooting also benefits exposure, dro and white balance bracketing.
but has sony got the figures right?
you still must remember to set white  balance to flash or daylight, otherwise the camera will set it from the  modelling light k.
nor can you shoot stills with the mode dial in this position.
high speed shooting this brings me to the aspect of high speed sequences.
but very useful  indeed many years later when searching for stuff.
even though i spread the 10fps bursts over a ten second interval, by the time i had totalled 20 raw frames i was down to the single shot per second or worse situation.
the a55 claims to be 1.1x and 100% view.
the 8fps or single-shot af 12fps  settings allow control of aperture, and i know that f/5.6 would have cleaned  up.
it is a surprisingly fierce crop from the full sensor, not just a top and bottom slice to hd 16:9 format.
search this site – over 300 articles on alpha system topics!
rather too distant heron, shot using the 2x smart converter for jpegs (this is actually a clip from a raw file processed in acr to match).
the oddest incompatibility is the manual’s statement that front  curtain shutter should not be set on on for ‘konica minolta’ lenses (added note – see comments at the end of this article, some  discussion of this).
sound there is no provision for audio notes or audio only recording, which is a  bit of a waste of built-in functions as this would be possible and can be  useful.
you’ll get around 18 normal small jpegs (6 megapixels, lowest quality) at 10 to 12fps before the rate slows down to an erratic 3fps with occasional half to one second pauses.
konica minolta never even got round to rebranding the apo g lenses, they just changed the box and the lens cap and left minolta as the name on the lens.
on the a77 for video it was  auto-set to between f/2.8 and f/4 in low light.
but getting the lettering on the child’s lifejacket sharp probably would not have worked in lower light – certainly, higher than iso 800 begins to lose fine detail on the a77, and wider than f/8 begins to get softer on this lens.
i can have auto iso over any possible sensible range but not iso 50.
on my system,toast titanium 11 includesroxio hd viewer and because it is a blu-ray compatible disc authoring package, this was able to handle the .mts files in all formats, and convert them to formats editable usingimovie.
several of these buttons can have their functions modified so they no longer do what it says on the silkscreened white or blue print (white for shooting mode, blue for playback).
i am not so worried about low light, high iso as i first  thought.
that can not be done with the evf and  it demands a precise dioptre setting for each.
with an ovf like the alpha 900, i can set  the dioptre midway between what’s needed for my sight with and without  glasses, and get along fine with either.
12fps is very impressive.
the area surrounding the huge visual image is dead black, not milky and luminescent like the a55.
if you want 12 megapixels to match the nikon d700 full frame results, just set your lens to a maximum focal length of 135mm and never go longer, and use medium size extra fine jpeg.
not only that, but after i had pressed the self timer 10 second setting  when in movie mode, the lcd top display showed a single frame symbol plus the  10 from the self-timer mode, and the shutter release was disabled even after  returning the mode dial to program or other settings.
username: password: remember me register new member lost your password?
various  other manual details, such as indicating flash can be usedin this mode, are  also incorrect or there’s a small firmware glitch with the camera.
to save battery power, this is set to a relatively high black level and clips the three-quarter tones straight to d-max.
i fold the rear screen to face the camera back.
in this model, when no gps signal can be detected on  power up, the camera simply turns off gps embedding (on the a55, it uses the  last co-ordinate).
the sigma also was not pin sharp, but instead of showing this artefact, just looked generally less sharp.
you will be concerned about high iso quality, diffraction, resolution, having good enough lenses.
ultimately as the brain cells sneak off for a nap you find good old shutter speed, aperture and focus do you just fine.
it does not work with the 18-55mm sam.
i mean that, for example, in my office with medium lighting and a very bright computer screen if the camera is aimed at the screen the exposure in matrix mode, with centre spot focus, becomes correct for the screen and the rest dark.
i’m using  the manual focus ‘peaking’ function to check the accuracy of my af  (this shows a coloured line on correctly focused details, when the af/mf button  is pressed in).
that could be simple like venice2011-15.jpg or a bit more precise like guideccasangiorgiovenice2011-15.jpg.
i’m using the manual focus ‘peaking’ function to check the accuracy of my af (this shows a coloured line on correctly focused details, when the af/mf button is pressed in).
the result is a very graphic view of your composition.
whatever your existing lenses are capable of doing, the 24 megapixel sensor will give you more of it.
but as someone else has already done it, i prefer to spend my energy doing the stuff they haven’t done.
the one ‘tonal range’ adjustment which does operate in raw+jpeg mode, though only the jpeg is changed, is the dro or dro+ setting which uses a single shot.
it is also something which would be invisible in revised lenses; maybe the sony 18-70mm kit lens actually has aperture blades which close 50 milliseconds sooner than the km equivalent.
but the a77 has the best eyepoint and visibility for this info of any model to date.
the most reliable and accurate focusing method remains central single spot focus, or local selectable single spot.
if you are particularly odd you can even swap round functions and confuse people who borrow your camera (shades of canon!).
that can not be done with the evf and it demands a precise dioptre setting for each.
standard jpeg (click images for 1000 pixel wide version) three-shot hdr using 3ev spread three-shot hdr also works well, especially at low iso settings of 50 or 100 and in extra fine jpeg.
with an average sd card (20mb/s write) you will wait 15-20 seconds after the  last shot before being able to shoot fast bursts again.
it seems there’s some additional information chipped into some but not all lenses which enables the lens correction function (vignetting, chromatic aberration and distortion) for in-camera jpegs.
this 30%, by the way, means the light reaching the sensor is reduced not by the 1/3rd to 1/2 a stop sometimes mentioned, but by .6 of a stop or nearly 2/3rds of a stop.
would its 19 af points and 11 cross type sensors do the 7d trick of locking on to a sweet wrapper someone dropped on the lawn instead of the wedding group
it is a surprisingly fierce crop from the full  sensor, not just a top and bottom slice to hd 16:9 format.
if you choose your start position well  (including the brightest highlight area of importance) exposure is very  reliable, and at low iso with fine quality, the jpeg is of a professional  standard.
the af/mf button, by default, performs this function with most lenses (it switches to mf when pressed, the same effect as holding focus).
when raw shooting was set, this lasted many  seconds, but interestingly with the small jpeg option only two or three seconds  were blocked out.
the manual ticks that box.
the camera needs an option to disable auto gain so that a preamp or mic with db cut choices can be used to control a fixed sound level; better would be three levels, like nikon; even better still a proper sound level monitor display and full control in fine steps like canon.
that’s because they are not available if you shoot either raw or raw+jpeg.
in practice, you certainly get your 13 raw or 11 r+j shots at 12fps or the slower af-capable hi 8fps setting – or indeed at the slower 3fps rate.
the pixel alignment seems very accurate and shots  at settings like iso 3200 show an improvement in detail which would be hard to  obtain even by good raw processing.
by the time i’ve written this single review article, it will be  one-third the length of the complete camera guide books we used to do for hove  twenty years ago.
the viewfinder the alpha 77 is a camera that points the way for future development, whether of dslt (sony ‘translucent’ mirror technology) or entirely mirrorless slr-mount bodies.
there is a proper near-ir af  illuminator in the camera body – minolta tradition lives on!
the alpha 77 gives you a choice of 3  shots at +/-3ev, the same at 2ev, then 3 or 5 shots at 0.7, 0.5 or 0.3 ev  intervals.
you’ve got loads of pixels to play with for cropping and using a zoom lens is far less important.
for focus tracking with viewfinder, the 1d x is limited to 12fps.
like nikon’s object tracking, the a77 will identify large brightly coloured shapes – such as a solid colour shirt – and your main subject may be wearing something more complex.
there is also a special hdr painting mode,  which processes the file with a masking effect to create what is currently a  popular ‘look’.
i ask this because when shooting panoramas with the alpha 55, my 15mb/s  sandisk ultra ii sd card failed – it was not fast enough, could not  handle the data and became corrupted.
we had to check it, but although you can  set the drive state, including self-timer, doing so has no effect on movie  shooting.
whatever your  existing lenses are capable of doing, the 24 megapixel sensor will give you  more of it.
i like the picture effects settings especially rich tone mono.
it highly effective, both  through the live viewfinder and when viewing the results, and totally silent
the 28mm f/2.8 is the most obvious example, the 50mm f/1.4 another.
copyright © 2012 photoclubalpha - all rights reserved powered by wordpress & atahualpa
the flash sync prontor-compur coaxial connector (pc flash socket) is sealed behind a cover shared with the remote release socket.
using this shooting speed you  have full control.
- david kiipatrick please read the comments for some notes on corrections, which i will continue to make.
af has a new mode, zone.
if you set the focus mode to c (continuous) then both ae and af continue during shooting.
i mean whats the difference i still have the same controls to use in lightroom ok typo error sal 85mmf2.8 question: why is it that pressing the depth of field preview button eliminates magnification of the live view (or evf) image?
i  would like the movie mode to switch operation to the main shutter release or  the movie button.
but they need to have this capability.
for one of the horse racing tests, i shot one burst of frames and as the  camera slowed down, two horses fell and two jockeys were injured, one requiring  a stretcher.
what you will find is that some menu items are greyed out, and some buttons don’t work, if a mismatched combination is set.
whileadobe bridge with the gps panel (download from adobe) installed allows viewing and editing of co-ordinates, it still has no link togoogle maps, microsoft virtual earth, or any other useful location display.
over the top with hdr painting style, high strength – it actually works best on dull, wet days with grungy subjects!
i got seven frames at 12fps, which fits in with  the card in use taking about 15 seconds to finish writing from a 13-frame burst.
the instruction manual omits to mention these are on the lens, and not on all lenses – some owners have spent ages looking for the focus hold button which does not exist on the camera.
selective yellow on monochrome – but that’s the only shot i have.
you  will need to buy software to do so.
because of the way the camera handles bursts of frames and buffering, it would be useful to be able to shoot normally in any mode (single frame, or other continuous speed) and switch to 12fps by holding down or toggling a button (preferably holding down, say, the af/mf lock reassigned for this purpose).
whileadobe bridge with the gps panel  (download from adobe) installed allows viewing and editing of co-ordinates, it  still has no link togoogle maps, microsoft virtual earth, or  any other useful location display.
in the newer 1.04 it doesnt work….
you are just using a camera with twice the sharpness crammed into half the image area.
it reduces the 1.5x area to something like a  1.8x area, not as much ‘zoom in’ as using the 1.4x smart converter  but enough to cut heads and feet off subjects you have pre-composed using the  full finder.
it claims to be weatherproof, and having nearly broken that thumnbnail off opening the flash sync cover i do believe the seal is tight.
let’s say your favourite lens is really only good up to 12 megapixels.
so don’t bank on this function fixing jpegs from your  ‘heritage’ of early sony glass!
this item is under live view display, and is called ‘setting effect’ – off or on.
the pixel alignment seems very accurate and shots at settings like iso 3200 show an improvement in detail which would be hard to obtain even by good raw processing.
the  sigma 12-24mm f/4.5-5.6 mk1 has the same code as the minolta/km 28-80mm kit  lens.
you can read the list  here:http://www.sigma-photo.co.jp/english/news/info_111014.htm.
the focus point – here, centre focus spot aimed first at the  family and then held using the shutter release to recompose the scene –  helps determine exposure.
what the movie icon means is that you gain access to manual control of iso, shutter and aperture.
the a700 for example is 95% field at 0.90x of a 1.5x sensor coverage, a viewfinder ‘size index’ of 0.57x (0.95x0.9/1.5).
like the alpha 700 and 900 (and unlike the consumer level cameras, including the alpha 580) it can have the hvl-f58am or 43am wireless control capable flash mounted on the camera to control group/channel wireless strobes with power ratio.
the external mic socket provides 5v phantom power for popular condensor  mics, and is stereo too.
it can also use hss  (burst flash with shutter speeds up to 1/8,000th and corresponding power  attenuation).
the illuminator also enables focusing on plain surfaces as it projects a pattern.
zone identifies the zone with the most focused points, then works within this area.
added note: the canon 1d x has now bettered this record high speed shooting by providing 14fps.
the hinge design makes a vertical grip possible and also allows a wider range of tripods or quickmount plates.
i shoot a lot of indoor ice-hockey, and have been a bit frustrated.
here i am, i’ve written stacks about the viewfinder and not even begun to describe it fully.
the most reliable and accurate focusing method remains central single spot  focus, or local selectable single spot.
if the stop-down preview button is set to ‘shot preview’ mode instead of ‘aperture preview’, you also get a simulation of the effect of your shutter speed – so flowing water brief time exposures (up to 30 seconds) can be previewed to see exactly which shutter speed suits the water movement best.
that’s another reason to like my 16-80mm cz on the a77 – ideal for studio products or architecture, or indeed for landscape.
your original card does not have to be present.
and access to gps map location helps me decide filenames, then later on input metadata for caption, keywords, description, and much more.
as it happens i use media pro for all my digital asset management.
there is also a special hdr painting mode, which processes the file with a masking effect to create what is currently a popular ‘look’.
as for the instant movie button, it’s not in the best place – a long thumb reach for on and off actions to start and end clips and the placing tends to make me tilt or move the camera needlessly.
the entries i’ve marked with an asterisk already have their own dedicated buttons for which these are normal function choices (ael button, for example, covers all the first four but can only do one function, preset in menus).
if you choose your start position well (including the brightest highlight area of importance) exposure is very reliable, and at low iso with fine quality, the jpeg is of a professional standard.
i have already observed that the metering in spot mode is  16 times more sensitive than spot metering in the 900, and i would guess that  when the system biases matrix metering values to the centre focus point,  there’s a related gain if not that much.
i tried this with one of my horse race test subjects.
i’ve also tested the 8-16mm and 100-300mm os, 70mm macro and 70-200mm f/2.8 hsm macro mkii.
they have also paid extra attention to the design of the af module and the interior of the darkchamber, to avoid reflections.
with 15,000 finished images stored on my system everything which helps me identify them is valuable.
early information and the use manual state that you can define the  number of exposures for bracketing, and the range covered, with the alpha 65.
almost any filter you fit in front of the lens is going to have a greater effect (unless you spend a stack of money, a really bad effect on 24 megapixels – we’ve replaced our older minolta, pre-digital hoya and other filters with the latest sigma ex dg after testing them).
this is a situation where the above-mentioned makes, if allowed to use wide area or multi point af, tend to shift focus to the foreground intruder because as conventional dslrs they don’t have face detection in optical viewfinder mode.
trust me, if there’s anything which can be set on any other alpha, it’s probably settable on the 77 or not there at all.
autofocus is provided in hi drive mode, along with ae (8fps, accessed via the drive function button, in any shooting mode).
because the body is weatherproofed, the flash shoe cover is a softer plastic  type which seals tightly.
it was very fast and accurate… so its not a limitation of pdaf but a limitation of sony.
input and feedback then again, having to set up the camera and realising the full extent of the customisation possible through the menu and fn buttons, i felt depressed.
the a900 is 100% of full frame at 0.74x, index 0.74x.
video af happens at the actual  working aperture, not wide open like still af.
the manual does make it clear that by front curtain shutter sony means no front curtain shutter.
with an average sd card (20mb/s write) you will wait 15-20 seconds after the last shot before being able to shoot fast bursts again.
autofocus is provided in hi drive mode, along with ae (8fps, accessed via  the drive function button, in any shooting mode).
the drive mode had to be reset to get it out of this tangle.
the playback also can’t be customised, nor can the menu button (which can return to last used or top by setting a preference), nor the top lcd illuminator button.
these are not in the warning list and all seem to work well, even though they do not work reliably with the alpha 55.
various other manual details, such as indicating flash can be usedin this mode, are also incorrect or there’s a small firmware glitch with the camera.
that’s another reason to like my 16-80mm cz on the a77 –  ideal for studio products or architecture, or indeed for landscape.
galleys are proofs of type (or the metal itself) and if you’ve ever worked on the tv listings or the sports pages, you’ll know what it means to be a galley-slave in editorial terms – form before function, and function before fun!
at first i did not fall in love with the alpha 77 – when my purchased firmware 1.02 version body locked up on me in front of one canon and one nikon user i was just a little angry with it.
for standard hdr shots on sony’s  current models, a normal jpeg is saved along with the three-shot hdr and  that’s good.
i  would expect the shutter release to be operational with the mode dial set to  movie, so that stills could be captured.
being stopped down a little improved the 24mm’s accuracy.
no raw, no standard jpeg… you do get a pretty accurate preview of the result in the evf.
this does not mean it has changed, like some canon models, to be incapable of shootingunplanned movie clips – you can do this at the press of a button, like other sony models.
this creates three groups of sensors left centre  and right which act like mini wide zones.
even now with firmware 1.03 i am not sure it won’t repeat the cataleptic fit, but it shows no signs of doing so.
for raw files, after your 13-ish burst is up, you may get  between 0.5 and 1 frame per second with occasional one to two second pauses.
for all these multi-shot modes, the 12fps function of the alpha 77, sss, and the quiet, mirrorless shutter action combine well.
it will normally prefer foreground to background, so your main danger is a player moving in front, but like nikon it does not react immediately and if the movement in front is fast, the focus will not shift.
also, it becomes possible to aim the camera at a fixed spot like a hurdle,  and fire, capturing several positions of the horse before it leaves the field  of view.
it is best to use one of the three memory registers (accessible through menu screen after turning the mode dial to mr, memory recall or register) to store a manual exposure, fixed wb, low iso, setting effect off preset for studio work.
that is because the wheel directions  go against the old minolta protocol that turning the aperture ring to the right  opens up, turn to the left stops down.
i have never liked face detection much until the slt evf generation arrived.
as well as all the info in the finder and on the back lcd, you get this top plate lcd which means you can close the back one.
the focus point – here, centre focus spot aimed first at the family and then held using the shutter release to recompose the scene – helps determine exposure.
the stereo sound is not much different to the nex or alpha 55 despite being  capable of 48khz (better than cd) sampling.
it will be just as good if you use the 12 megapixel medium size  jpeg option on the alpha 77, and if you do that, the 1.4x smart teleconverter  function will also deliver a 12 megapixel drawn from the centre of the field  only – so most likely just as good.
this mode in the canon locks both ae and focus with the first frame, locks the mirror up, and you must use live view on the rear screen to compose the shot.
click image for 1000 pixel version click image for 1000 pixel 100% size clip from acr processed version (my density choice) click image for capture one pro 100% clip from raw (ditto) click image for in-camera processed (jpeg fine, low level of nr) 100% clip (camera’s density)
creative style picture effect (only active for jpeg-only shooting)
as a result of the performance with my sd cards giving write  speeds around 20-30mb/s i ordered a sandisk 45mb/s extreme pro, and plan to get  a 95mb/s card when they are available.
selective yellow on monochrome – but that’s the only shot i  have.
* it’s a great deal of use.
it is four times more sensitive as a matrix/centre-weighted meter than the alpha 900 and a staggering 16 times more sensitive than a900 spot metering mode.
to improve  your gps, download this file: http://control.d-imaging.sony.co.jp/gps/assistme.dat create a folder on your sd card inside the private/sony directory and call  it gps.
it is best to use one of the three memory registers (accessible through  menu screen after turning the mode dial to mr, memory recall or register) to  store a manual exposure, fixed wb, low iso, setting effect off preset for  studio work.
it’s the oled viewfinder with 2.4 megapixels of self-illuminating rgb which changes the game.
i tried one technique, shoot 2, 3, 4, 6 frames with brief pauses – as  if catching different moments of an event, in bursts.
there is in fact a bit of an overall mess with sam, ssm, and standard lens focus types including the assignable dmf (direct manual focus) to the af-a mode.
when it is off, you are using the  physical front curtain, the blades uncover the sensor to start the exposure.
the auto iso multi-shot mode, multi-frame noise reduction, captures six frames and creates one jpeg.
but if you are out and about, the last position may be shown  on some pictures.
the a77 has a micro af adjustment and you absolutely must test the lens at the typical working distance, under the same lighting (this is important), at the focal length and aperture you use.
more ‘only for fun’ stuff includes soft focus, selective colour  against mono (called ‘partial color’), toy camera, miniature  effect, two monochrome looks including one which uses three exposures,  ‘pop color’, posterization, retro photo, soft high key.
iso 3200, 70-300mm ssm g lens.
this is not like separate metering cell ttl, the classic minolta honeycomb.
anyone expecting to make full use of the high speed drive functions and best video quality of the 77 with cards like the faithful wallet full of transcend 16gb class 10s we have been using will be disappointed.
the af sensor itself may not be any more sensitive,  it’s simply getting a much better image feed.
all these solutions are valuable when still shots could be  important.
sony pmb is also very useful for gps data handling, map viewing and correcting gps data.
when raw shooting was set, this lasted many seconds, but interestingly with the small jpeg option only two or three seconds were blocked out.
it’s worth noting that picture effects (see later pages) can be applied to movies, as can all other image adjustments, and will be seen in the finder as you shoot.
that is because the wheel directions go against the old minolta protocol that turning the aperture ring to the right opens up, turn to the left stops down.
the illuminator also enables  focusing on plain surfaces as it projects a pattern.
shot with the 24mm f/2 lens – no way to move back or zoom out for  the movie, but plenty of space you would think for the 16:9 hd crop.
panoramas,  as an example, don’t provide a raw file and you can’t bracket  exposures.
it is simply a very clear and well designed display both in-camera and on the rear screen.
the most important change for professional and enthusiast owners is the long-overdue addition of a menu item which prevents the evf or lcd live view from showing actual exposure when manual aperture and shutter are set.
the af sensors in the 77 are rated for f/5.6  aperture use.
when adjusting the viewfinder dioptre to switch from working with spectacles to working without, it’s so close to the dioptre control i push it occasionally by mistake.
i am now shooting with auto iso set to go from 100 to 3200 instead of 1600, i have started using medium and small jpegs with dro+ to ensure exposure correction for events type shots, i’ve tried all the lenses i have and the only thought is that i need to stick around f/8 to f/11 for safety.
with some hd-movie systems, you actually shot a  still frame during the movie and lose nothing except a couple of movie frames;  with others, you can end the movie by pressing the shutter and capturing a  still.
the a77 is 100% of 1.5x format at 1.09x, index 0.726x.
i had learned which settings to prefer – three zone focus for example is far better than old-style wide area and almost makes single centre spot focus redundant.
i am now shooting with auto iso set to go from 100 to 3200 instead of 1600,  i have started using medium and small jpegs with dro+ to ensure exposure  correction for events type shots, i’ve tried all the lenses i have and  the only thought is that i need to stick around f/8 to f/11 for safety.
there are firmware or orientation sensor errors, as the  imager can appear upside down in more than twisted position.
unlike sensor-shift ss.
you can read the list here:http://www.sigma-photo.co.jp/english/news/info_111014.htm.
evfs will not be unique to sony and it will continue to develop in resolution, colour fidelity and refresh rate.
the help (?) button can also not be customised, which if you don’t want potted hints and tips makes it redundant in shooting mode, though it serves as the trash button when reviewing images.
i like my filenames  to be a ‘catchline’ format – an alphanumeric string which  contains a key word about the subject.
the a77 has fast/slow af options and i’ve used fast.
with an ovf like the alpha 900, i can set the dioptre midway between what’s needed for my sight with and without glasses, and get along fine with either.
i  often test sequence shooting on the local races, and i quickly found that even  tracking a horse (necessary to keep it in the frame at all for more than one  shot at 3fps) certain frame rates just produced two stages in its stride,  repeated.
and here, below, is a 100% crop from the original iso 800 raw file processed using adobe camera raw 6.5 (sharpness 50, radius 0.5, detail 0, masking 0; luminance nr 25, luminance detail 50, same from chroma nr)
but since the 18-55mm sam, 55-200mm  mk2 sam, and 18-250mm (an old design relatively) are in the release firmware  along with the 16-50mm ssm maybe there’s no info in the lenses  themselves, and future firmware will add more.
the evf types differ in the a55 showing more shadow detail with lower contrast, and lower colour saturation so the noise does not look bad.
i have a 28-75mm konica minolta, a 17-35mm konica minolta and at one point i had an 18-200mm, and of course, the kit 18-70mm and various horrible full frame plastic lenses like the 28-100mm.
let’s say your favourite lens is really only good up to 12  megapixels.
just remember you are looking at a section of an image something between  6ft and 8ft wide, it’s very easy to view a tiny clip like this as if it  was just another digital image.
any one individual lens may have  sluggish diaphragm, indeed a common cause of overexposure in all a-mount lenses  is incomplete stop-down.
also the nikon d300 shoots up to 9 brackets for hdr the a77 shoots 5
i shoot with confidence just as i would once have done on film and sometimes i do not check a single image until i’ve copied the card contents to my computer.
but the alpha 77 with its top plate lcd info display, its ‘come to life’ burst of finder shooting information when you take first shutter pressure and confirm focus – well, it is constantly reminding me what i am doing.
wide area focus can, of course, locate widely spaced details which are concurrently in focus.
the 8fps or single-shot af 12fps settings allow control of aperture, and i know that f/5.6 would have cleaned up.
audio notations attached to images are popular with travellers and journalists.
no provision for fixed gain is made – auto level or gain is always on.
the auto exposure of the a77 seems to be more closely linked to active af points than any previous model.
no cameras in this  class has ever achieved 12fps, let alone at 24 megapixels.
i have a 28-75mm konica minolta, a 17-35mm konica minolta and at one  point i had an 18-200mm, and of course, the kit 18-70mm and various horrible  full frame plastic lenses like the 28-100mm.
in theory you get 13  raw or 11 raw+jpeg frames before the camera slows down, and it looks as if the  buffer must hold about 320mb.
first of all, the description of front curtain  shutter is misleading.
here is beside my old and well-worn 700.
this is sony’s own statement in the manual, page 139: “the recordable range of the brightness of a subject (dynamic range) is slightly narrower for areas where iso is less than 100.”.
with face detection on, the a77 never once switched focus to the nearer person, and always stayed locked on to the subject facing me.
it makes the transition from optical to electronic viewfinders likely for everything except a limited choice of professional optical viewfinder dslrs.
the alpha 65 and 77 are the only dslr/t cameras so far made which use the ush-1 sdxc specifiction to allow writing data at this kind of rate.
you can swap your bulky zoom for a truly fantastic ultra-fast portrait length lens and solve the problem.
sometimes the person i am focusing on has a blurry face, but the people way behind him/her are clearer.
it is also something which would be invisible in revised  lenses; maybe the sony 18-70mm kit lens actually has aperture blades which  close 50 milliseconds sooner than the km equivalent.
what i’m seeing may not be the same sort of meter-linking-to-af that is found in the canon eos 400d, as an example.
the alpha 77 gives you a choice of 3 shots at +/-3ev, the same at 2ev, then 3 or 5 shots at 0.7, 0.5 or 0.3 ev intervals.
this is a 100% pixel level clip showing how the lens and af have correctly targeted the subject which i placed exactly centrally here, but other frames use the outer sensors and all have held focus well.
sony state 15 seconds or more to acquire or change position, and variable accuracy due to gps being a us military provision which can be subject to deliberate degrading.
all of  these are irreversible real time post processing.
using the high 25,600 iso setting which can only be accessed in this mode shows that it’s slightly inferior to a straight 16,000 iso shot despite the six-frame synthesis.
wide area focus can, of course,  locate widely spaced details which are concurrently in focus.
i have found it more comfortable  to use without specs, so they spend too much time perched on my head, hanging  from my collar or stuffed into a pocket.
this is just a routine test i ran at all iso settings to check colour and tonal response.
this was almost like handling a canon 7d – one of those cameras where, if someone passes it to you, you can never be sure if it has been configured only for photographing flocks of ibis flying behind bare poplar trees.
but very useful indeed many years later when searching for stuff.
you can set the iso, but not the aperture, so the iso is your only way control the shutter speed.
while this nomenclature is not exactly  transparent, it describes the function well as all picture styles and creative  effects normally shown in the finder are also bypassed.
it also does not warm the sensor assembly up as much.
taken by stage lights at iso 3200 i had to take a few shots where a person receiving a presentation was facing the camera, and the presenter often stepped into shot with back of head to the lens.
in use, i found there was one button missing which would make a huge difference to this camera.
the camera needs an option to disable auto gain so that a  preamp or mic with db cut choices can be used to control a fixed sound level;  better would be three levels, like nikon; even better still a proper sound  level monitor display and full control in fine steps like canon.
it can use  information about the change in confirmed focus within one zone to help track  the subject into the next zone.
for all these multi-shot modes, the 12fps function of the alpha 77, sss,  and the quiet, mirrorless shutter action combine well.
here’s another sequence, this time as stills without the annoying animation you can’t turn off
you can also set  these if you use manual focus.
when this was microsoft expression media 2 it has its own virtual earth window, but now  it’s been taken over by phase one, that has been replaced by auto-opening  a web browsergoogle earth window.
there are nine push buttons, one rocker button and one control wheel on the back of the camera alone; five push buttons, one collar switch, one shutter and control wheel on the rh top.
this is because the makers borrow lens identity codes.
the camera does not have a dual processor like the alpha 900, and it does not benefit from the robust performance of fast cf cards.
you can set the iso, but not the aperture, so the iso is your  only way control the shutter speed.
my subjects normally scowl so i don’t use this.
it’s therefore closer to the a900 than the a700.
when the screen is moved away from the centre zone, exposure increases by two stops even though the overall image contains about the same brightness.
i would question whether the new 16-50mm, used wide open, is a ‘good enough’ lens – let alone the 18-55mm sam also being offered as a kit lens.
without  flash, it really is possble to focus in the dark and the evf does a very grainy  but usable job as a night vision viewer too.
all evfs are slightly unsatisfactory to the human eye because there’s no real shadow detail to see if you switch your glance away from well-illuminated parts of the view.
every point on the sensor is a spot meter even though you can only ‘spot meter’ from the centre.
in yet other makes, you can shoot a still but lose two seconds during the movie.
because of the new design, all positions found on other cameras from hanging-under to almost flat on top (r-1 style) are possible except facing forwards and positioned to the side.
shooting panoramas – which have to start  with exactly the same frame by frame 24 megapixel data readout – i  counted 42 frames apparently firing at something close to the 12fps maximum,  then creating a panoramic jpeg, and the finished 6.7mb jpeg file was written to  card and the buffer cleared before i had time to see if the light was still on.
from the alpha 77 karma sutra – left, position for portrait photography; right, position for those who like to video themselves and still look as if they are in eye contact with the viewer.
then there’s the stray stop-down button, the lens change release and the af-mode switch living round the mount.
*queried on dpreview forums – i’m an ex-newspaperman.
in other words, you are not really at a disadvantage over the best semi-pro rig currently made for indoor sports, the d700/70-200mm vr.
buffer to  card writing is reduced to around 10 seconds from around 20, but at least with  this extra card speed, there is no way to extend the approximate 1 second  unbroken raw shooting burst.
well, i can have fun.
whatever it was, the 77 is close to this rumoured prototype .
there are some lenses where you are warned never to  use body mf setting always only to use the lens switch.
in practice, you certainly get your 13 raw or 11 r+j shots at 12fps or the  slower af-capable hi 8fps setting – or indeed at the slower 3fps rate.
you have to trust the camera despite the huge range of tones and light a wide panorama can cover.
tell you what – go and find one, try it.
you start just learning to set shutter, aperture and focus.
you may customise the stop-down preview button to show the final picture effect instead (stop-down plus picture style and shutter speed result) and through the menus you can change the behaviour of lens-resident focus hold.
early information and the use manual state that you can define the number of exposures for bracketing, and the range covered, with the alpha 65.
combined with the mere 1/20th second shutter lag, this slt gets back to the responsiveness of classic non-af slrs.
they are all usable without much effort or worry, hand-held.
shooting panoramas – which have to start with exactly the same frame by frame 24 megapixel data readout – i counted 42 frames apparently firing at something close to the 12fps maximum, then creating a panoramic jpeg, and the finished 6.7mb jpeg file was written to card and the buffer cleared before i had time to see if the light was still on.
this image is dropped in and has no connection to the information displayed!
i am getting good stop-action and lighting seems ok, buy my main trouble has been in capturing faces (through the helmet cage).
i know other cameras and other alphas have finder displays, even the nex was probably telling my longsighted eyes what it was up to, but the alpha 77 presents working information better than any camera i’ve used.
i tried with 2 lenses, the new sony 16-50 ssm f2.8 and sony 35mm 1.8 i did the trick , and i managed to shoot video , with aperture 1.8 and having autofocus.
shoot any higher quality movie beyond a mere blip on the button, and you can’t fire a still frame for some seconds.
all i can say is that if you ensure you are using the evf correctly, you will always be in touch with what the camera is doing.
it looks to me as if the a55/35 manual misrepresents the evf size in that camera, it very clearly is not larger than the a77.
on my system,toast titanium 11 includesroxio hd viewer and because it is a blu-ray compatible disc  authoring package, this was able to handle the .mts files in all formats, and  convert them to formats editable usingimovie.
this mode in the  canon locks both ae and focus with the first frame, locks the mirror up, and  you must use live view on the rear screen to compose the shot.
while this nomenclature is not exactly transparent, it describes the function well as all picture styles and creative effects normally shown in the finder are also bypassed.
the camera does not have a dual processor like  the alpha 900, and it does not benefit from the robust performance of fast cf  cards.
then set the camera to skip it.
the slt mirror of the 77 diverts 30% of light to the af module, but this is  actually more than the old semisilvered patch and double mirror system used to  let through in slrs.
i was unable to get any pictures of the incident as it happened,  and by the time the alpha 77 was able to shoot again, the ambulance crew was on  the track.
it isn’t even like a camera with centre weighted or spot optically fed meter cells.
as a penalty, you lose af.
what camera/lens combo would you recommend for hockey photography?
i had a55 and a65 , and sold them because of this ” limitation”…..
there are very few, nearly all were made  by tamron.
because the sensor is feeding image data to an analysing computer, face  recognition and object tracking can be linked to the af.
i think you have an almost impossible problem with the light level as you really need iso 6400 to get something like f/5.6 and 1/1000th.
the flash sync prontor-compur coaxial connector (pc flash socket) is  sealed behind a cover shared with the remote release socket.
50% would be one stop.
it will be just as good if you use the 12 megapixel medium size jpeg option on the alpha 77, and if you do that, the 1.4x smart teleconverter function will also deliver a 12 megapixel drawn from the centre of the field only – so most likely just as good.
i own a 28-85 f3.5-4.5 lens and i prefer this lens on my camera the most
what’s most odd about the a77 is that three of the main dedicated-function buttons are completely interchangeable.
the movie stabilization need the surrounding pixels.
image formats and styling the alpha 77 has a stack of great functions and features i will never use.
if the  stop-down preview button is set to ‘shot preview’ mode instead of  ‘aperture preview’, you also get a simulation of the effect of your  shutter speed – so flowing water brief time exposures (up to 30 seconds)  can be previewed to see exactly which shutter speed suits the water movement  best.
there are indicator marks on the display, that’s true, but you will find them hard to see in many conditions even if you remember to use them.
using the  high 25,600 iso setting which can only be accessed in this mode shows that  it’s slightly inferior to a straight 16,000 iso shot despite the  six-frame synthesis.
over the top with hdr painting style, high strength – it actually  works best on dull, wet days with grungy subjects!
anyone expecting  to make full use of the high speed drive functions and best video quality of  the 77 with cards like the faithful wallet full of transcend 16gb class 10s we  have been using will be disappointed.
this item is under live view display, and is called ‘setting  effect’ – off or on.
these diagrams from the manual do not represent the finder very well.
select the three-zone focus option, not wide area and not spot or local.
the a77 eyepiece glass is much closer to the eye than the a55 or previous slr models, and the upper positioned eye-sensor turns the finder on and off with precision saving power but causing no delays.
the stereo sound is not much different to the nex or alpha 55 despite being capable of 48khz (better than cd) sampling.
sampling down to one quarter of the file size (still large enough for an a4 print) creates a dead sharp, low noise image.
i am baffled by sony’s indecision about on/off switch design, the camera labelling is the reverse of the alpha 55/33/35 or 580/560 etc, though the action is the same.
sony pmb is also very useful for gps data handling, map viewing  and correcting gps data.
it also gets the exposure right more of the time.
lens compatibility the new 16-50mm f/2.8 is enabled for in-camera lens corrections this leads to the general question of lenses and the a77 generation.
that is easy to answer.
they are ahead of the card game.
there are too many faces, moving too fast, and too many objects.
even a 20 inch or larger hdtv set looks sharp when fed from the alpha 77.
the colour is also very consistent indeed across the iso range and the feathers in the mask retain the expected detail up to iso 3200.
you will find that the tamron probably needs a whole range of different af adjustments to be perfect at f/2.8 – and you may simply have to remember these, or write them down, and set them for the conditions.
as for flicker, shearing when panning, clarity of focused detail – well, these are all limitations, but much reduced in this new finder.
so if you want to work at f/1.4, leaving focus to af would be a disaster.
at 5fps, the second frame would have the horse leaving the right-hand edge.
roxio offers similar pc  utilities.
and many minolta lenses  became sony lenses while retaining a heritage right back to pre-d days or the  origins of the af system itself.
raw files are unaffected, and i don’t know if this information is used to enable better panoramas but that would be a practical fringe benefit.
unlike the standard range of hdr settings, this is far from being a straight image and the lack of a raw file or normal jpeg to back it up means it’s only for fun.
it can use information about the change in confirmed focus within one zone to help track the subject into the next zone.
also, it becomes possible to aim the camera at a fixed spot like a hurdle, and fire, capturing several positions of the horse before it leaves the field of view.
it highly effective, both through the live viewfinder and when viewing the results, and totally silent unlike sensor-shift ss.
it also gets the exposure right more of the  time.
apart from making constant shifts, there’s a big chance of hunting.
but today i went to my local sonystore and tried a65 and a77 with older firmware 1.03 and the trick someone put in this forum… and it worked!
the a77 has all the focus and ae hold and lock, slow sync, focus point shift, exposure over-ride and other key functions i need.
i have already observed that the metering in spot mode is 16 times more sensitive than spot metering in the 900, and i would guess that when the system biases matrix metering values to the centre focus point, there’s a related gain if not that much.
the alpha 77 has so much more to discuss.
it’s actually as good as the 16 megapixel sensor when needed,  and when it’s not, the extra resolution repays careful low iso technique.
the manual focus restriction placed by using the manual movie mode  is necessary despite the howls of protest it’s produced from those who  don’t understand the technology involved.
using this shooting speed you have full control.
movie shooting does not enjoy the same fast buffer clearing.
maybe this is the rule they stick to.
each race gave me just two chances to shoot a burst so i’m  afraid that testing every single setting combination on the camera was not  possible.
there are indicator marks on the display, that’s true, but  you will find them hard to see in many conditions even if you remember to use  them.
you will be concerned about high iso quality, diffraction, resolution,  having good enough lenses.
in the studio i can control my contrast to use it well.
sony says the slt mirror (a very thin film of plastic stretched on a frame) has new mirror and antireflection coatings.
david thank you so much for your reply.
i am probably missing some other setting/trick as well.
there are hints of the 700 and also some memories of the dynax 7xi present in the sculpturing of the body.
when this is set to on, it means no front curtain shutter – electronic gating instead.
since it sits right next to the ael button and closest to the rear control wheel, it a natural choice for any function you might want to use in a hurry.
the display button can not be customised and only serves to cycle through  display setups – but you can customise those, and thus what the button  does for you (above, menu to set which finder display states you wish to cycle  through, ticked).
rear screen folded away and protected – that’s how i use the camera all the time.
it is missing the obvious 1 ev step choices and that will baffle  many, especially hdr raw users who would like 5 shots at 1 ev intervals.
it’s great work that dpreview undertake.
the post-processing method offered by nikon and others, where you can apply similar effects to raw or jpeg files already stored on your memory card and create a new version, is preferable.
konica minolta never even got round to rebranding the apo g lenses,  they just changed the box and the lens cap and left minolta as the name on the  lens.
but having eleven cross sensors does more good in practice.
i could have perhaps picked another detail with slightly more punch, and looking at all the shots, my prefocused point was actually about 1 metre behind the horse (if the af refocused during this sequence, i can’t see any evidence in the images).
after my tests of the high speed shooting functions, i conclude that to cover some sports events well you would need a pair of alpha 77s, or the 77 and some other camera – and you would need to keep a close eye on the card writing light.
then you can return to any other setting and get your accurate  exposure and ‘look’ preview back again.
a warning about not setting micro af adjustment with third party lenses is  given, as usual.
it’s actually as good as the 16 megapixel sensor when needed, and when it’s not, the extra resolution repays careful low iso technique.
there is a proper near-ir af illuminator in the camera body – minolta tradition lives on!
even though i spread the  10fps bursts over a ten second interval, by the time i had totalled 20 raw  frames i was down to the single shot per second or worse situation.
it reduces the 1.5x area to something like a 1.8x area, not as much ‘zoom in’ as using the 1.4x smart converter but enough to cut heads and feet off subjects you have pre-composed using the full finder.
i would guess ‘correctable’ lenses have extra information, older and third party lens won’t.
there will be users who complain that having vital information just above and below the image area means they don’t see it because of their specs.
the 1200-zone metering has correctly placed the baby’s white clothes in the value range 250 to 254 rgb.
without at  least one of these options the alpha 77 can not considered for semi-pro or  professional live sound video work.
and i was shooting at  5fps.
it’s not so much the noise that is reduced, it’s the overall quality of the image which improves.
i already knew before doing this that the noise thing was a non-issue for the simple reason that this sensor beats anything else out there; i’ll start pixel-peeping for noise when another maker comes along and shows they can do this pixel density better.
for your sports shorts, the best option may be to turn off face detection and turn off object tracking.
when adjusting the  viewfinder dioptre to switch from working with spectacles to working without,  it’s so close to the dioptre control i push it occasionally by mistake.
it can not officially use the hvl-f20am as a wireless controller,  but owners have found it works – with a slightly longer than normal delay  in flash firing, according to gary friedman, who has compared it with the  pop-up flash wireless control.
and whatever things the slt mirror does, it seems to feed the new af module plenty of light – it’s able to focus in conditions half as bright as the a900.added comment: the a77 metering is four times as sensitive as the new canon d1 x, so although that camera has amazing sensitivity up to iso 204,800 the a77 will actually meter exposure in lower light.
i think there are 75-300mms in km guise.
i do not have to reproduce every single screen and menu because there’s no big boss saying that’s how it is done!
i could have manual speed and aperture with autofocus !
the a77 has all the focus and ae hold and lock, slow sync, focus point  shift, exposure over-ride and other key functions i need.
there is a single af adjustment for each lens, even for zooms.
unlike earlier evfs, the sony oled has a threshold below which it simply turns the pixel illumination off entirely.
this is required for the steady shot digital, pixel-shift based movie stabilization which does not move the sensor like regular ss.
you have no normal backup when shooting.
the 12fps ultra high speed shooting mode is only  accessible through the mode dial.
with 7fps it gets better, 8fps or 10fps still better and with 12 fps you  reach the point where four different positions of the legs are recorded.
david you must be logged in to post a comment.«
shot with the 24mm f/2 lens – no way to move back or zoom out for the movie, but plenty of space you would think for the 16:9 hd crop.
don’t lose this shoe cover or swap it for one  of your others.
the new oled has dead black shadows and it doesn’t matter how much your brighten it, the cutoff is based on exposure level in the image.
in speed priority ae mode (the 12fps setting on the mode dial) the focus is locked before frame 1 if you have the camera set to single (s) af, but in exchange for this, you can set both the iso and the aperture.
my experience so far with the camera indicates that exposure is very  reliable over the entire ev range.
in use, i found there was one button missing which would make a huge  difference to this camera.
if anything the glass thickness and distinct double air to glass surfaces of a rear mounted filter make it far more likely to degrade an image than the slt.
its full function list is: memory recall (only present when mode dial set to mr) scene selection (only present when mode dial set to scn)
i can’t photograph it adequately (i have tried) and it would be exhaustive to go through the deep menu settings of the a77 which let you decide for example how many different information-display setups you scroll through when you press the display button.
it is just a fraction smaller than the a900 as the calculations indicate.
copy this file into it, put the card in your camera, switch on.
go to gps in the main menus and make sure it’s turned on, then look at the gps assist entry and you will find the assist data starts on the day you download and lasts a month.
it has a double hinge and rotate action, of which more later.
i ask this because when shooting panoramas with the alpha 55, my 15mb/s sandisk ultra ii sd card failed – it was not fast enough, could not handle the data and became corrupted.
it makes a huge difference in action work.
this one is interesting because it toggles – the panel light remains on until the camera goes to sleep, or it’s pressed again to turn off.
each camera has a different eyepoint – 27mm for the a77 compared to a mere 19mm for the a55 – but this should not be allowed to influence the stated apparent magnification.
i was finding that exposure is generous but never highlight-clipped, because it’s read from the actual imaging sensor; you can trust the simulation given by the evf, too, and adust the +/- over-ride with confidence.
the less-shadow-detailed aspect of evf works for composition much the same way early leica viewfinders did.
sigma has issued a list of lenses which are known to have af problems with  the alpha 77/65, and will upgrade them free of charge.
my subjects normally scowl so i  don’t use this.
there are some lenses where you are warned never to use body mf setting always only to use the lens switch.
no doubt this will change with updates, but right  now apart from sony’s pc-onlypicture motion browser (they have  now had half a decade to port it to mac) there are few programs which can  recognise the 1080/50 or 60p 28mbps format and even fewer which edit it.
the viewfinder is a pleasure to use, though evfs differ from optical screens in one important respect, that the eye can not compensate for small errors in the dioptre setting.
i would like the movie mode to switch operation to the main shutter release or the movie button.
the internal pop-up flash (gn12) has the usual range of first, second curtain, fill-in, off, auto options; ttl pre-flash, adi, and also manual power control down to 1/16th which can be useful for triggering slave flashes if you don’t have a cable or a wireless trigger (and minolta shoe adaptor).
it’s worth noting that picture effects (see later pages) can be  applied to movies, as can all other image adjustments, and will be seen in the  finder as you shoot.
this  one is interesting because it toggles – the panel light remains on until  the camera goes to sleep, or it’s pressed again to turn off.
on the mode dial of the a77 there is a movie position.
the colours are bright and the information text, though smaller to the eye, is crisper and far more legible.
for raw files, after your 13-ish burst is up, you may get between 0.5 and 1 frame per second with occasional one to two second pauses.
i am still trying to figure out the best settings for my a77.
i would really appreciate any thoughts you have.
unfortunately , its not a limitation of pdaf (af only with f/3.5) … i thought it was too!
this cover was so tightly sealed it threateed to break a fingernail opening it the first time, a small screwdriver was needed.
i like my filenames to be a ‘catchline’ format – an alphanumeric string which contains a key word about the subject.
the camera stopped being complex and started to suit my declining mental powers.
movie (only present when mode dial set to movie) drive mode flash mode af area object tracking face detection smile shutter iso and iso auto setup metering mode flash compensation white balance dro/auto hdr creative style picture effect (only active for jpeg-only shooting)
to those who say it looks a bit like a canon, yes, it’s true that canon design has caught up with 1990s minolta style in the last couple of years… conclusion from the initial press meeting with sony, where cameras were prototypes and the images were not allowed to be shown, i decided that if i could work for a year with the alpha 55 and have no problems then thealpha 77 was a safe investment.
thank you david for the informative review.
i am using spot metering mode, but am not sure what i should be using for the af area.
despite the impressive size of the apparent viewfinder image, it is not as large visually as the alpha 900.
i have tried at f/3.5 and for every clip which  has a smooth focus transition, there will be another where the ssm, sam, hsm or  plain old screw drive makes a sudden shift.
in fact it is limited to three shots.
there are firmware or orientation sensor errors, as the imager can appear upside down in more than twisted position.
as a result of the performance with my sd cards giving write speeds around 20-30mb/s i ordered a sandisk 45mb/s extreme pro, and plan to get a 95mb/s card when they are available.
this issue will also affect the behaviour of the auto lens correction  register, which in our body does not have any effect on the cz 16-80mm for  example but does correct the new 16-50mm.
the hinge design  makes a vertical grip possible and also allows a wider range of tripods or  quickmount plates.
as far as loss of sharpness goes, i do not believe there is any more significant sharpness loss from the slt pellicle than there is from, for example, the rear filter permanently fitted into a 300mm f/2.8 apo g tele.
this lug and triangle-ring design, as opposed to the slot-type strap fixing of the lesser camera bodies, is always a clue that the structure is based on a good solid metal skeleton.
if you really want to shoot af movies at f/2.8 on a 200mm lens, try by all means.
and if you want to work at a smaller aperture than f/6.3 – say f/16 for a deep focus effect with a superwide lens – then af simply would not work at all.
standard jpeg (click images for 1000 pixel wide version) three-shot hdr using 3ev spread three-shot hdr also works well, especially at low iso settings of 50 or 100  and in extra fine jpeg.
(see comments at the end of the article for some more precise  figures on the mirror split provided by dr daniel oi).
so even if you get perfect focus it may not as good as you want.
they are  ahead of the card game.
without at least one of these options the alpha 77 can not considered for semi-pro or professional live sound video work.
photographers do some good, occasionally – this is a cheque for £3000 being presented to dj dave lee travis for thepace centre charity, by the master photographers association.
the lens will not only be sharper than the tamron wide open, it will focus faster.
balancing extra depth of field with a hint of diffraction loss.
when this is set to on, it means no front curtain  shutter – electronic gating instead.
the accuracy of the af is much better than any previous alpha model.
i often test sequence shooting on the local races, and i quickly found that even tracking a horse (necessary to keep it in the frame at all for more than one shot at 3fps) certain frame rates just produced two stages in its stride, repeated.
the card slot door is not so reassuring and i see no trace of any proper sealing, not even a labyrinth design.
if you need reminding in big print, let the rear lcd see the light of day, and you get this big clear information pane on demand.
you still must remember to set white balance to flash or daylight, otherwise the camera will set it from the modelling light k.
steph, when you are faced with 1/640th at f/2.8 and you are already at iso 2500, you’ve really got a light level too low to guarantee perfect shots every time at the 200mm end.
so the advice should be don’t use ‘front  curtain shutter’ set to on with anything except sony a-mount lenses  – or test your independent lens before use.
in the a77, the data display is tight and efficient and it can show everything you ever want including the iso in use when you select auto iso.
the overall  design and balance of the alpha 77 are as good as any alpha i’ve used.
an example of gps map location from media pro and google maps – click on the image for a full size screen shot.
i think there are 75-300mms in km  guise.
to confuse things, some of these konica minolta like the 18-70mm, 18-200mm and 75-300mm became sony lenses without a single substantial change.
so the advice should be don’t use ‘front curtain shutter’ set to on with anything except sony a-mount lenses – or test your independent lens before use.
the simple fact is that the nikon only has 5 megapixels when cropped to aps-c otherwise it would need a 300mm f/2.8 to match your setup!
visit the assist.dat download once a month or more often to  keep your gps working with the fastest and most accurate lockon and  co-ordinates.
there is in fact a bit of an overall mess with sam,  ssm, and standard lens focus types including the assignable dmf (direct manual  focus) to the af-a mode.
default movie apertures range between f/3.5 (typically set on  fast lenses) and f/6.3 (well, with an f/6.3 zoom lens there is little choice).
the 24 megapixel file gives plenty of scope for  reducing to a smaller final result.
it is missing the obvious 1 ev step choices and that will baffle many, especially hdr raw users who would like 5 shots at 1 ev intervals.
the only slowdown is  the time you take to press the central controller button to register an subject  for tracking.
ours does not seem to have any issues at all on our a77 with firmware 1.03.
it is a top grade screen, 3 inches and nearly a megapixel.
outdoors in bright light it combines with the 1/8,000th top shutter speed to remove the need for a 4x nd filter to get superwide apertures, but due to reduced dynamic range, it’ll still clip whatever highlight would have been clipped with an overexposed iso 100 shot.
but in the alpha 77 it appears to be allocated  buffer and processing power which is denied to more useful motordrive sequence  shooting.
in low light, it shows noise until focus and exposure are confirmed by shutter pressure, at which point the view clarifies and the noise reduces.
when pressing the display button (there’s a menu item to configure exactly what information each press shows you, with separate settings for the evf and the rear screen).
forget about zooming, concentrate on framing, use f/2 if you like!
it may have been something unlike the alpha 77, which follows focus 12fps with locked preset exposure, or in any appropriate exposure mode at 8fps.
by the time i’ve written this single review article, it will be one-third the length of the complete camera guide books we used to do for hove twenty years ago.
ael and af/mf (under your thumb) can all be changed to do anything from the following long list of functions: ael hold* ael toggle* spot meter with ael hold* spot meter with ael toggle* af/mf control hold* af/mf control toggle* object tracking af lock* aperture preview (stop down)* shot result preview (final picture simulation)* smart teleconverter* focus magnifier* memory exposure compensation* drive mode* flash mode af area face detection smile shutter iso* metering mode flash compensation white balance* dro/auto hdr creative style picture effect image size quality *
you have no normal backup  when shooting.
it can not officially use the hvl-f20am as a wireless controller, but owners have found it works – with a slightly longer than normal delay in flash firing, according to gary friedman, who has compared it with the pop-up flash wireless control.
body handling  noise is present, so is lens focus noise.
all these solutions are valuable when still shots could be important.
the alpha 77 shows no sign of it, and has not in any of our photographs so far.
image stabilizer and easibilty of controls and overall technology of the a77 blows everything out there out of the water even the nikon d7000 which i traded for the d300.
i got seven frames at 12fps, which fits in with the card in use taking about 15 seconds to finish writing from a 13-frame burst.
panoramas, as an example, don’t provide a raw file and you can’t bracket exposures.
the a77 can do that sort of wrong stuff if left on wide area focus – but it doesn’t light up the wrong af points in the finder to fool you, and it does not require programming of af preferences to avoid proximity or response speed errors (both canon and nikon pro models can disappoint if used ‘out of the box’, and need their defaults changing depending on your typical photo situations).
my experience so far with the camera indicates that exposure is very reliable over the entire ev range.
though some colour fringes on the bright water definitely hit this 16-80mm cz shot (along with a colour bokeh issue making those in the foreground magenta and those to the rear greenish) there was no hint of any ghosts or flare in dozens of shots taken in conditions like this.
the af sensors in the 77 are rated for f/5.6 aperture use.
the scene is simplified, and this tends to concentrate the eye on impact and simple compositions.
then you can return to any other setting and get your accurate exposure and ‘look’ preview back again.
instead, if provides very accurate feedback about which sensors are being used.
the 12fps c-af setting forced the sigma 70-200mm to be at f/3.5, two thirds of a stop down from full aperture, but also gave a shutter speed of 1/6400th.
go to  gps in the main menus and make sure it’s turned on, then look at the gps  assist entry and you will find the assist data starts on the day you download  and lasts a month.
high speed shooting also benefits exposure, dro and white balance  bracketing.
one of the main features of the d300 was user custom settings.
but you don’t get anything like the same continuous shooting capability  as past models even if you knock the jpeg size right down.
in conditions where exposure was 15 seconds at f/2.8, iso 100, using the a55 and a77 side by side the a55 was better.
there are very few, nearly all were made by tamron.
i’m sad to see that i can only control my auto iso range minimum between 100 and 12800, and my maximum between… 100 and 12800!
the sigma 12-24mm f/4.5-5.6 mk1 has the same code as the minolta/km 28-80mm kit lens.
the accuracy of  the af is much better than any previous alpha model.
flash the alpha 77 has a proper, threaded, high grade studio flash sync terminal as well as the usual minolta i-type hot shoe.
along with exposure simulation, there should be no reason why your shot ever goes wrong.
what you will find is  that some menu items are greyed out, and some buttons don’t work, if a  mismatched combination is set.
plenty of buttons to push – and you can have fun swapping their functions round to confuse your friends!
the microphone under its unusual  top grille seems less prone to wind noise than most dslrs; the wind noise  reduction feature, a bass cut filter, is additionally effective.
the card slot door is not so  reassuring and i see no trace of any proper sealing, not even a labyrinth  design.
i decided i would  shoot the front runners going over a hurdle, get my 12fps burst, then do a few  seconds of movie of the stragglers who reach the spot a few seconds later.
in good light, the oled/24 megapixel combination is excellent.
first of all, the description of front curtain shutter is misleading.
sigma has issued a list of lenses which are known to have af problems with the alpha 77/65, and will upgrade them free of charge.
and maybe another ten thousand words.
although i could have shot further (faltering) still frames, movie shooting was  blocked out with a warning message telling me ‘writing to memory card  – unable to operate’.
this cover was so  tightly sealed it threateed to break a fingernail opening it the first time, a  small screwdriver was needed.
first of all, the tamron 70-200mm f/2.8 is not pin sharp at f/2.8 especially on 24 megapixels.
now some cameras have fooled me, there are no dials and they just hid this stuff from me so i’d end up with bad things like the optically soft set of landscape
all the other figures agree.
not only that, but after i had pressed the self timer 10 second setting when in movie mode, the lcd top display showed a single frame symbol plus the 10 from the self-timer mode, and the shutter release was disabled even after returning the mode dial to program or other settings.
there’s only one affordable camera made which can really do this – the nikon d700 with 12 megapixel full frame sensor, and the nikon vr 70-200mm f/2.8.