wallet without comments i’m a photographer that values both functionality and beauty.
the wallet is flexible and even smells like real leather that you probably dug out of your father’s closet.
i could really  use something like this.
you’ll never show off enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
if you need even more functionality, think tank makes some excellent options that even include velcro that holds the package closed and holds much more (click our banner on the right to take a look at some of them.)
however, we can’t keep doing that unless we have your continued support.
i really, really don’t believe i’m typing this, but as i touch it,  i get a feeling almost synonymous to running my fingers along a girl’s  skin during the summer.
i really, really don’t believe i’m typing this, but as i touch it, i get a feeling almost synonymous to running my fingers along a girl’s skin during the summer.
hands on: holdfast gear indispensible
the american bison version of this wallet costs $65.00 while the kodiak  oil-tanned version costs $45.00.
open the wallet up and you’ll reveal more slots and also take notice  of the stitching holding the leather together.
in the case  of the newly announcedholdfast gear indispensible wallet, you’ll get an  item that is both functional as a wallet for your cf, sd, and business cards  while still being quite beautiful.
the slots can hold both cf and sd cards.
the version above is the kodiak oil-tanned leather edition.
pin it no related posts.
by clicking our links first and then purchasing the items as we then get a  small portion of the sale to help run the website.
they can currently be purchased on holdfast’s website.
the slot is big enough to hold even more business cards or an sd or cf card.
except being leather, this is naturally colder.
if you would like to purchase any of the items mentioned, please do so by clicking our links first and then purchasing the items as we then get a small portion of the sale to help run the website.
that also means that it can probably hold money and also stash away credit cards if you need it to.
as you see in the lead image, this little wallet is beautiful.
if you need even more functionality,  think tank makes some excellent options that even include velcro that holds the  package closed and holds much more (click our banner on the right to take a  look at some of them.)
those  two can sometimes mix very well together in the photography world.
please support the phoblographer we love to bring you guys the latest and greatest news and gear related  stuff.
as a new yorker often attending all sorts of events, networking with other  professionals at parties, and even going out (i just turned 25)
the version  above is the kodiak oil-tanned leather edition.
in the back is a nice spot for  business cards as well.
the wallet is flexible and even smells like real leather that you probably  dug out of your father’s closet.
photography: think simpler without comments i’m a photographer that values both functionality and beauty.
even the back of this little wallet has a slot too.
if you’re a photographer that likes to keep his/her gear very minimal; then this is a wallet for you.
if you would like to purchase any of the items mentioned, please do so
if you have a more conservative and relaxed lifestyle,  you won’t exactly be going for this.
this one though, surely was.
we love to bring you guys the latest and greatest news and gear related stuff.
it’s very hard to describe and really has to be felt in person.
open the wallet up and you’ll reveal more slots and also take notice of the stitching holding the leather together.
written by chris gampat february 17th, 2012 at 7:42 pm posted in photography accessories tagged with business cards, cf, holdfast gear, indispensible wallet, memory cards, sd« samsung’s latest stylish memory cards are like the sexy underwear
that also means that it  can probably hold money and also stash away credit cards if you need it to.
in the back is a nice spot for business cards as well.
if you have a more conservative and relaxed lifestyle, you won’t exactly be going for this.
join 21 other subscribers the journalist template by lucian e. marin — built for wordpress
in the case of the newly announcedholdfast gear indispensible wallet, you’ll get an item that is both functional as a wallet for your cf, sd, and business cards while still being quite beautiful.
however, we can’t keep doing that unless we have your continued  support.
those two can sometimes mix very well together in the photography world.
admittedly though, it leans a bit more  towards the beautiful side than functional.
as a new yorker often attending all sorts of events, networking with other professionals at parties, and even going out (i just turned 25)
this one though,  surely was.
i could really use something like this.
if you’re like me,  you like leather things: such as theolympus pen premium case and the ona union  street messenger bag.
that wallet wasn’t designed with swagger in mind.
the american bison version of this wallet costs $65.00 while the kodiak oil-tanned version costs $45.00.
admittedly though, it leans a bit more towards the beautiful side than functional.
the slot is big enough  to hold even more business cards or an sd or cf card.
in terms of texture, it feels unlike any other leather i’ve touched.
if you’re a photographer that likes to keep his/her gear very  minimal; then this is a wallet for you.
if you’re like me, you like leather things: such as theolympus pen premium case and the ona union street messenger bag.